STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Section C: Accountability Between them, the Group Chief Executive, that they understand, acknowledge and accept Section D: Remuneration completion of the formal business at the 2018 REPORTING AND INVESTIGATING The Board determines the nature and extent the Group Finance Director and the rest of its requirements.
The Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 72 AGM, and a copy of the presentation, together CONCERNS AND WHISTLE-BLOWING of the significant actions necessary to achieve the Executive Committee visit all of the fully describes the Boards approach to with other investor relations material, is available The Company encourages its employees to Due diligence must also be performed on new its strategic objectives and maintains a sound Groups operations on an annual basis and remuneration matters.
The Directors on the Companys website.
discuss any ethical concerns that they may suppliers and customers to ensure that they system of internal control.
The Companys Audit make presentations to local senior management, Remuneration Policy was approved by have with local management, or at Group level operate to the same high standards of quality The total issued share capital of the Company Committee reports to and, for certain matters, reinforcing the Code and the importance of shareholders at the Companys 2018 AGM.
and integrity as Senior plc and have a code as at 1 March 2018 the date of the Notice of advises the Board of Directors.
The Audit maintaining an absolute commitment to the of conduct.
Section E: Relations with shareholders Meeting for the 2018 AGM, was 419.4 million As part of its internal control procedures, the Committee Report on pages 49 to 52 describes highest standards of ethics and a zero tolerance The Company maintains regular contact with ordinary shares of 10p each.
The total number Company has a Whistle-blowing Policy that is the role and activities of the Audit Committee, towards bribery and corruption.
The Board MANAGING GIFTS AND HOSPITALITY its institutional shareholders and continued of proxy votes received for the 2018 AGM communicated throughout the Group.
This together with the significant issues that it verifies compliance with the Code through The Board recognises that gifts and hospitality to consult with its major shareholders during represented approximately 82.65% 2017 policy provides employees with the opportunity considered in relation to the 2018 Financial its internal audit programme, ensuring that have the potential to create a conflict of interest, 2018.
Twice a year, the Group Chief Executive, 80.84% of the issued share capital of the to report suspected unethical or illegal corporate Statements and its relationship with the internal employees have received the mandatory or the perception of a conflict of interest.
As a Group Finance Director and Director of Investor Company.
All resolutions put to shareholders conduct confidentially and anonymously.
Details of the Groups training and that the Groups businesses result, there is a Group policy restricting the Relations & Corporate Communications at the 2018 AGM were passed on a poll.
All reports of suspected unethical or illegal approach to risk management and its Risk operate with integrity at all times and in receiving and giving of gifts and hospitality from, undertake a series of meetings with the Details of the poll voting received by the corporate conduct are independently and Assurance Framework can be found on compliance with the Code.
This policy requires that all Companys major shareholders, following Company for the 2018 AGM resolutions investigated and tracked from inception to pages 20 to 25. gifts and hospitality must be recorded annually Operating with integrity and in an ethical the announcement of the full-year and are set out in the table below.
resolution and, where necessary, actions are through a self-declaration process.
The internal manner builds trust with customers and other interim results, to discuss both the Boards COMMUNICATING THE CODE OF CONDUCT taken to rectify any weakness in systems that Details of the votes to be received by the audit function assesses adherence with the stakeholders and underpins the Boards strategic objectives and the detailed AND OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY may have been identified.
These actions, and Company for the 2019 AGM resolutions will Groups gifts and hospitality policy during strategic objectives.
During 2018, the overall integrity of the reporting system, In April 2018, the executive Directors published be made available on the Companys website internal audit visits.
the Companys non-executive Chairman an updated booklet for issue to all employees are subject to regular scrutiny by the Audit following the close of the meeting.
HUMAN RIGHTS also attended the full-year and interim Committee.
This process is also available to and relevant third parties, explaining the Groups DATA PROTECTION The Group recognises the importance of the results announcements made to analysts, revised Code of Conduct the Code and third parties, such as suppliers and customers.
During 2018, additional work was undertaken Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in February and July respectively.
Subject to confidentiality considerations, the Seniors Values: the latter are shown on page 12. on Data Protection to ensure that the Company, IAN KING adheres to the core principles and values The booklet includes a message from the Group outcome of each investigation is provided, and relevant subsidiaries, were compliant with CHAIRMAN The Chairman meets periodically with defined within it.
The majority of countries in insofar as it is possible, to the complainant.
Chief Executive, explaining that it is his the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director 1 March 2019 which Senior operates have their own laws unshakeable belief that how you do business in advance of it becoming effective on 25 May is also available to attend meetings with major banning child labour and promoting human Mark Vernon is the Senior Independent Director: is as important as what you do in business.
An internal GDPR audit programme for shareholders upon request, so providing an rights.
Senior monitors the ages of its workforce this position provides employees and third The booklet contains work-related scenarios, UK and European subsidiaries was completed alternative channel of communication between across the world to ensure compliance and parties with an alternative channel of together with a selection of questions and by the year end and all relevant businesses have the Company and its shareholders.
identify any potential succession issues.
communication to resolve issues if they have answers, to help employees to understand the in place a GDPR policy and breach incident a concern that the Chairman, Group Chief The Company makes constructive use of Senior is committed to preventing slavery and Code and relate it to their individual roles and procedure, which have been communicated Executive or Group Finance Director have failed its AGMs to communicate with its private human trafficking in its corporate activities and working environment.
Copies of the Code are to their employees.
Compliance with data to resolve the issues, or where such contact shareholders.
A presentation on the Companys throughout its supply chain.
In 2017, in order to issued to all new employees and reissued protection regulations will continue to be with them is not appropriate.
annual performance was given following raise awareness of modern slavery issues, all periodically to ongoing employees to remind monitored on an ongoing basis.
employees received training on Supporting them of the required level of conduct.
MANAGING EXTERNAL SALES AGENTS Human Rights: Modern Slavery Act to help AND REPRESENTATIVES Senior trains its employees on the requirements identify and prevent slavery and human The Board recognises the potential bribery and of the Code upon induction, educating them trafficking.
Additional work was undertaken corruption risks posed by the markets in which on what they can and cannot do, and how to during 2018 with Seniors supply chain to the Group operates and, in particular, the use of address any ethical dilemmas they may face.
further reduce the potential exposure.
All external A compulsory 2018 Code of Conduct online sales agents and representatives working on training course was rolled out across the Group Senior does not restrict any of its employees in behalf of Senior across the world are required any of the countries in which it operates from to all employees in 2018, together with training to operate in compliance with the Code.
Local on Anti-Bribery and Corruption.
Training on joining a trade union if they wish to do so.
Senior DETAILS OF THE POLL VOTING FOR THE 2018 AGM ARE SET OUT IN THE TABLE BELOW: management is required to conduct a due also works closely with its suppliers to ensure the General Data Protection Regulation diligence and risk assessment process prior to was also provided to all UK and relevant that they at least meet internationally recognised Resolution For & Against Votes total Votes engaging or re-appointing any sales agents and minimum requirements for workers welfare and overseas employees.
number Resolution name discretionary votes votes excluding withheld withheld to issue them with a copy of the Code, ensuring conditions of employment.
of internal audit activities and managements OVERVIEW APPOINTMENT OF DEAR SHAREHOLDER COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Visits to the Groups operations are also response: ensuring co-ordination between The Nominations Committee is chaired The Audit Committee has been established by NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Member Appointment date undertaken, involving the new Director meeting the internal audit function and the external by myself, and comprises all non-executive the Board and consists entirely of independent In 2018, a comprehensive recruitment process Giles Kerr local management teams and learning about the auditor and ensuring that the former is Directors.
The Group Company Secretary non-executive Directors.
The primary role of the was undertaken with the support of Korn Ferry Committee Chair 2 September 2013 key issues faced by each operation.
adequately resourced and has appropriate acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Audit Committee is to maintain the integrity to select a new non-executive Director.
When Celia Baxter 2 September 2013 standing within the Group: Senior members of management and of the financial reporting of the Group and to recruiting, the Committee was keen to ensure The Nominations Committee and the Board Susan Brennan 1 January 2016 advisers are invited to attend meetings ensure appropriate risk management and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups that the chosen candidate would have the right have been taking due regard of Lord Davies Mark Vernon 22 April 2016 when deemed appropriate.
There were internal control procedures.
To enable the internal controls and risk management personality to fit the Groups culture and the review into Women on Boards February 2011, two scheduled meetings of the Committee Audit Committee to fulfil this role, its main systems ensuring that the process is active Rajiv Sharma 1 January 2019 necessary skills and experience to help deliver the Hampton-Alexander Review: FTSE Women in 2018: two additional meetings were held responsibilities include: and dynamic: continued strong results, both financially and Leaders November 2016 and the HamptonFor the attendance record, please see page 45. to discuss matters relating to succession operationally, in order to develop and oversee understanding the strategy at both Group Alexander Review: Improving Gender Balance conducting the process for selecting the planning and the recruitment of non-executive the future progression of the Group.
and operational levels to ensure that business in FTSE Leadership November 2017.
I am Two members constitute a quorum for the Audit external auditor and making recommendations Directors.
Two members constitute a risks and other relevant issues are effectively pleased to report that the Board is supportive Committee.
The Group Company Secretary acts to the Board, and ultimately shareholders for The Committee, after taking into account quorum for the Nominations Committee.
identified and communicated to the Board: of the aim to increase diversity and the level as Secretary to the Audit Committee.
approval, of the appointment of the external all relevant factors, recommended to the The Committees attendance records are ensuring the Companys corporate ethics, of female representation in Board and senior auditor, the audit fee, initiating tender Board that Rajiv Sharma be appointed as shown on page 45.
Collectively, the members of the Audit anti-bribery and compliance procedures leadership positions.
Three of the eight processes in accordance with regulatory a non-executive Director of the Company.
Committee have significant commercial and are up to date in terms of addressing the Directors are currently female 38%.
The Committee is tasked with administering requirements, and the resignation or The Board agreed with the Committees financial experience at a senior management potential risks of fraud and misconduct: Following the appointment of Michelle Yorke the process for appointments, considering dismissal of the external auditor: recommendations and Rajiv Sharma accepted level.
Giles Kerr has the recent and relevant to the Executive Committee in September assessing the Audit Committees capabilities succession planning, regularly reviewing such the appointment as non-executive Director, assessing annually the independence financial experience required by the UK 2018, three of the nine members of the in relation to diversity, risk experience and processes and overseeing the composition commencing on 1 January 2019.
Rajivs and objectivity of the external auditor, Corporate Governance Code to chair the Audit Executive Committee are female 33%.
the financial expertise of its members: of the Board.
The Nominations Committees biography can be found on page 39. its compliance with regulatory requirements, Committee.
For details of the qualifications of Terms of Reference can be found on the understanding the implications of recent the effectiveness of the external audit The Board has been proactive in further members of the Audit Committee, please refer INDEPENDENCE Companys website.
and forthcoming changes to accounting process and authorising the provision, promoting diversity and equality of all kinds to the Board of Directors biographies shown The Nominations Committee and the Board standards, including the new revenue and if any, of non-audit services and the throughout the Group, regardless of geography on pages 38 and 39.
The Nominations Committee enlists external consider all of the non-executive Directors to financial instrument standards implemented impact this may have on independence: or position.
The Committee regularly discusses consultancy firms to assist in the appointment be fully independent and free from conflicting in 2018, and the new leasing standard to AUDIT COMMITTEES TERMS monitoring the integrity of the half-year Report the benefits of diversity with regard to the Board of Directors to the Board.
The Company interests which could cause difficulties whilst be implemented no later than 2019: and annual Accounts and related formal OF REFERENCE and its Committees.
provides the appointed firm with a role carrying out their duties.
Senior considers its assessing potential IT, cyber security and The Board expects the Audit Committee to Company announcements, and reviewing description, together with the required skills non-executive Directors to be proactive in SUCCESSION PLANNING social media issues in order to manage the significant financial reporting judgments have an understanding of: and personal attributes to be considered.
contributing their respective experiences The Committee regularly considers the issue of Companys reputational and business contained within them, before their The firm filters a list of candidates down to the principles, contents and developments and skills gained from a range of sectors.
succession planning for the various Board-level continuity risks: submission to the Board: a number of those that it feels meet the in financial reporting, including the applicable roles.
The Group has increased its focus on reviewing the Groups Whistle-blowing Conflicts of interests are fully disclosed by reviewing the Companys statement on skills and attributes required, then conducts accounting standards and statements of maximising the potential of its employees and Policy, to ensure that appropriate procedures Directors upon appointment and are reviewed the Annual Report & Accounts prior to preliminary interviews with the selected recommended practice: improving succession planning.
The Executive are in place for employees to raise, in on a regular basis throughout each year.
endorsement by the Board, that taken as a candidates.
The candidates are then referred the key aspects of the Groups operations, Committee, supported by the Group HR confidence, any concerns that they may whole the Annual Report & Accounts is fair, to Senior for interview, together with a written I am confident that Senior has the desired including corporate policies, its products and Director, has conducted an extensive review have relating to suspected malpractice, balanced and understandable and provides analysis on each candidate, with each candidate diversity of skills, people, and experience that services, Group financing, and systems of of senior executive succession planning.
illegal acts, omissions or other unethical the information necessary to assess the being interviewed by a number of members will guide the Company in delivering shareholder internal control: The review identified key employees who are corporate conduct, regarding financial or Groups position and performance, business of the Board.
The final recruitment decision value.
This Report was reviewed and approved the matters that could influence or distort considered to be, or could be developed into other matters: and ensuring that model and strategy: is taken by the Board as a whole.
by the Nominations Committee and signed the presentation of accounts and key figures: becoming, critical to the success of the Group, arrangements are in place for investigation discussing with the external auditor issues on its behalf by: Following the appointment of a Director, a full so that appropriate plans are in place to ensure the principles of, and developments in, of such matters and follow-up action: and and reservations, if any, arising from the and comprehensive induction programme is there is an appropriate mix of employees within company law, sector-specific laws and other considering any other topics specifically half-year review and year-end audit and any provided by the Company.
Within the induction the Group who could fill key roles in the short relevant corporate legislation: delegated to the Committee by the Board other matters the external auditor may raise: IAN KING process, areas such as financial forecasts, Group and longer term.
the roles of internal and external auditing and from time to time.
reviewing and approving the terms of CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS strategy, values, ethics and Code of Conduct are risk management: and the management representation letter COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is required to report its the regulatory framework for the addressed to the external auditor: 1 March 2019 findings to the Board, identifying any matters Groups businesses.
reviewing the longer-term viability of where it considers that action or improvement the Group: is needed, and to make recommendations as The full Terms of Reference of the Audit reviewing the effectiveness of the internal to the steps taken.
Committee may be found on the audit function: considering the major findings Companys website.
48 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 49 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE SIGNIFICANT RISKS CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee met on 21 February 2018 to consider the 2017 year-end report and during the subsequent 12 months conducted the following business on the meeting dates indicated below: Significant risks considered by the Committee How the risk was addressed by the Committee Meeting Inventory net realisable value The Audit Committee recognises the risk that the Group may not date 24 July 2018 31 October 2018 26 February 2019 Inventory held covers a wide range of products in both the recover the full cost of inventory via future sales, and may not hold Aerospace and Flexonics Divisions.
The ability of the Group to appropriate provisions against obsolete and slow moving inventory.
Items Received and considered an Internal Discussed and approved the external Reviewed the accounting presentation Audit Report including Risk & Assurance auditors confirmation of the 2018 audit and judgmental issues for the year sell this inventory at a value above its carrying value in the future In addition, a significant change in production costs or in the execution can be adversely affected by many factors.
Accordingly there is a risk and Mapping reports presented by the scope and fee.
ended 31 December 2018, including to deliver planned cost savings in relation to specific work packages Groups Head of Risk & Assurance.
consideration of those significant risks that inventory is carried at amounts that exceed net realisable value.
Received a technical update from the could result in unavoidable costs associated with one or more work outlined on page 51.
Reviewed the accounting presentation external auditor on accounting, reporting packages to exceed the economic benefits expected to be achieved.
and judgmental issues for the half-year and corporate governance developments.
Reviewed the longer-term viability of the This is a key area of judgment and as such the Audit Committee carefully ended 30 June 2018.
Group and agreed the viability statement Considered the Groups Risk & Assurance considers executive managements assumptions relating to the on page 29.
Reviewed and agreed the basis for going Strategic Plan and a preliminary view of achievability of these plans.
Reviewed and agreed the going concern to be adopted for the 2018 the 2019 assurance activity.
These were further discussed with the External Auditor.
concern basis to be adopted for the Received an update on the co-source 2018 Accounts.
Reviewed and approved the Condensed relationship with Deloitte LLP and its The Audit Committee believes there are no reportable issues arising Consolidated Interim Financial Statements internal audit activities.
Reviewed and approved the Annual from this significant risk.
disclosure in respect of new accounting Report & Accounts 2018 disclosure in Received an update on the Groups Cyber The Audit Committee considered the basis upon which management Other provisions standards: IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16. respect of new accounting standards: risk communications programme and on Provisions or accruals are held where management considers there had made its accounting judgments to determine the level of other IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
Reviewed the Tax Memorandum for the 2018 Code of Conduct training.
The Audit Committee receives a separate report from the is an obligation, payment is probable and the amount payable can half-year ended 30 June 2018.
Reviewed the Tax Memorandum for the Received reports on the Groups UK be reliably estimated.
Group Head of Tax that sets out the various uncertain risk exposures year ended 31 December 2018.
Reviewed and accepted KPMG LLPs and EU General Data Protection and any related provisions that are based on the best estimate of the Provisions held by the Group include but are not limited to: Report to the Audit Committee on the Regulation audits.
Reviewed and accepted KPMG LLPs amounts likely to be payable.
The Audit Committee carefully considers half-year review for the six months ended Report to the Audit Committee on the Noted the performance evaluation of the assumptions applied and provides appropriate challenge including those held against legal claims or product warranties: and 30 June 2018. audit of the financial statements for the the Audit Committee which was to be an assessment of the related sensitivities.
These were further tax provisions for uncertain risk exposures.
Reviewed and approved the terms of assisted by Independent Audit Limited.
discussed with the External Auditor.
There is a risk that other provisions overstate or understate the the management representation letter Reviewed and approved the terms of Reviewed the effectiveness of the The Audit Committee believes there are no further reportable issues associated liability.
addressed to the external auditor.
the management representation letter external audit.
arising from these significant areas.
Discussed the Groups draft Reviewed the FRCs Audit Quality Review Announcement of the 2018 Interim Approved the Audit Committee Report of KPMG LLPs 2017 audit of the Group.
Results together with the draft slides for 2018. for the analysts presentation.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the other services may not be provided where Assessment of external audit effectiveness EXTERNAL AUDIT Groups risk management and internal Discussed and approved the external precluded by ethical standards or where The Audit Committee reviews the Independence of the external auditor audit plan and strategy proposed by control systems and disclosures made the Audit Committee believes that it effectiveness of the external audit process and policy on non-audit services.
in the Annual Report & Accounts 2018.
KPMG LLP for the 2018 audit, would compromise audit independence at its October meeting.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the including materiality, scope, significant Reviewed the draft Annual Report & and objectivity.
independence of the external auditor, Given the appointment of KPMG LLP during risks and other areas of audit focus, Accounts 2018. the Audit Committee reviewed: All proposed contracts for services to be 2017 as the new external auditor, it was not the audit cycle and auditor reporting.
Discussed the Groups draft provided by the auditor in excess of 25,000 appropriate to perform an evaluation in the a report from the external auditor describing Held a private meeting with the external Announcement of the 2018 Final require the Audit Committees approval.
The auditor, without executive management the arrangements that had been made to Results together with the draft slides Audit Committee has subsequently returned to identify, report and manage any conflicts of being present.
Fees to the external auditor for audit related the normal evaluation cycle in the financial year interest and to maintain its independence: Reviewed the Notice of Meeting for the services undertaken in the year were 0.06m ended 31 December 2018. and 2019 AGM and the Proxy Form for the and for other non-audit work were nil.
the FRCs Audit Inspection Unit public 2019 AGM.
The effectiveness of the external audit process, In 2018, following a tender review the Audit report on KPMG LLP.
Received and considered a report has been performed by assessing a range of key Committee considered that it was beneficial for areas through a formal questionnaire that was presented by the Group Finance Director, The Audit Committees policy in respect of the Company to retain Deloitte LLP for non-audit which included the proposed 2019 individually distributed to all the members of the services provided by the external auditor is work services, because of the firms expertise in Audit Committee and all other executive and internal audit plan, and noted progress as follows: this area and knowledge of the Group.
The Audit against the Groups risk and assurance non-executive Directors.
The framework Committee continues to closely monitor the the external auditor is invited to provide required Audit Committee members to consider strategic objectives.
nature and level of such non-audit work.
services which, in its position as auditor, which areas of performance needed future Held a private meeting with the external it must or is best placed to undertake.
This focus by the auditor, the areas where the auditor Policy on tendering auditor, without executive management includes formalities relating to borrowings, In order to maintain auditor independence and was meeting expectations and those where the being present.
shareholder and other circulars, various other auditor was considered to have a special strength.
comply with FRC and EU guidance on audit regulatory reports and certain work in The Audit Committee normally invites the non-executive Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, tendering, the Group undertook a formal tender Senior management received answers and respect of larger acquisitions and disposals: the Groups Head of Tax and senior representatives of the internal audit function and the external audit firm to attend its meetings, although it of its external audit during the first half of 2016, comments from all questionnaires and reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw from any meeting.
the auditor may provide tax compliance and led by the Audit Committee.
The appointment consolidated them into a report.
The Audit advice where it is best suited.
However, of KPMG LLP as the Group External Auditor for The Audit Committee also holds separate discussions with the Director of Risk and Compliance who was formerly the Head of Risk & Assurance Committee used this report to facilitate a debate KPMG has undertaken not to provide such the financial year commencing 1 January 2017 and the external auditor without executive management being present.
In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee holds separate meetings at its October meeting and to assist in assessing services.
In all material cases, such work is received approval by shareholders at the Annual with the internal and external auditor during the course of the year.
the level of audit effectiveness.
The Audit put out to tender: and General Meeting held in April 2017.
The Committee discussed: the calibre of the audit Periodically, the Audit Committees Terms of Reference are reviewed to take into account current views on good practice and recent updates to the Committee reviews annually whether it is firm, the quality of the process, the Audit UK Corporate Governance Code.
The new UK Corporate Governance Code issued in July 2018 by the FRC will be adopted by the Audit Committee appropriate to put the audit out to tender.
from the accounting period beginning on 1 January 2019.
50 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 51 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIR Partner, the audit approach and planning, the INTERNAL AUDIT APPROVAL OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE role of management, the communication by the The Audit Committee is required to assist the This Report was reviewed and approved by the Auditor to the Audit Committee, the provisions Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: of support for the work of the Audit Committee the effectiveness, resourcing and plans of the by the Auditor, the sharing of insights and adding Group internal audit function.
value by the Auditor, the audit fee, the auditors GILES KERR In 2018, as set out on pages 20 to 25, the Group independence and objectivity, and the quality CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE further strengthened its risk management of formal reporting by the Auditor to the Audit 1 March 2019 procedures and these have been reviewed by Committee.
Feedback about the effectiveness the Audit Committee.
Risk has been assessed of the audit process from the local management on a top down and bottom up basis.
A risk teams was also considered by the Audit CELIA BAXTER based programme of internal audit has been Committee.
The Committee concluded that CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE conducted in the year.
This has been delivered the auditor had challenged the thinking of internally with the assistance of its co-source the Company and the Audit Committee on a Dear shareholder representative methodology for reporting partner, Deloitte LLP.
To support the SENIORS REMUNERATION POLICY number of significant issues and maintained I am pleased to present the Report of the the pay ratio of the CEO to the average UK effectiveness of the internal audit programme THE POLICY its independence.
Remuneration Committee for the financial year employee.
Senior plc although headquartered a software tool was implemented which tracks Following a major review of the Policy during ended 31 December 2018.
This statement sets in the UK is an international company with Following completion of the assessment actions resulting from internal audits.
The same 2017, last year we proposed to shareholders process, the Audit Committee concluded that it out the work of the Committee during the year the majority of its employees based outside tool was also utilised during the year for the amendments to the Policy which included and provides the context for the decisions taken.
is satisfied with the effectiveness of the external annual control self-assessment process, which an increase in the executives shareholding auditor: as a consequence the Audit Committee all sites complete.
Further progress has been guidelines, the introduction of a two-year Seniors performance during 2018 UK gender pay gap reporting April 2018 has recommended to the Board that KPMG LLP made in 2018 against the Group Risk & post-vesting holding period to be applied to Seniors vision is to be a trusted and The UK gender pay gap reporting requirement be re-appointed as auditor for 2019.
LTIP awards, and increase in the maximum collaborative high value-added engineering and came into effect in April 2018 for companies bonus to be awarded and the introduction of a During the financial year ended 31 December manufacturing company producing sustainable employing more than 250 people in the UK.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors discretion for the Remuneration Committee to growth in operating profit, free cash flow and Senior is committed to improving diversity 2018, the 2017 audit of Senior plc by KPMG LLP are actively encouraged to visit the Groups adjust the outcome of the bonus if appropriate.
was reviewed by the FRCs Audit Quality shareholder value.
across the Group and to provide equal operating businesses unaccompanied by The Committee was pleased that these pay for equal work.
The results of the Review AQR team.
The AQR routinely executive Directors.
This enables them to meet Our remuneration policy and practices support changes to the Policy were approved by the monitors the quality of audit work of certain UK gender pay reporting can be found on the local management teams and employees this vision with our bonus plans incentivising shareholders with a vote of 95%.
Other than the Companys website.
audit firms through inspections of sample audits and also undertake site tours to review matters earnings growth and free cash flow and our in the event of exceptional circumstances, and related procedures at individual audit firms.
including production methods, health and safety Incentive scheme outcomes for the year long-term plans rewarding both the creation the Committee does not intend to revert to Certain matters for limited improvement were and the status of internal audit findings.
In 2018, of shareholder value and earnings growth.
The Committee spent time after the end of the shareholders with a new Remuneration Policy identified relating to how KPMG LLP evidenced a total of 20 site visits were undertaken by the financial year reviewing the extent to which the before the end of the three-year policy period in their conclusions over the work performed in As explained in the Chairmans Statement and Chairman and non-executive Directors.
These targets under the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP 2021.
However for your ease of reference, the one area of the audit.
The AQR also highlighted visits by the Chairman and non-executive the Chief Executives Review, Senior delivered had been met, taking into account performance Policy is set out in full on pages 57 to 62. a good practice observation in relation to KPMG profitable growth and generated healthy free Directors are viewed by the Audit Committee during 2018.
LLPs audit oversight on the Senior plc audit, as making a positive contribution to the internal cash flow during the year under review: Review of new UK codes and regulations and in particular the extent of involvement in and For the Annual Bonus Plan, we set Adjusted control framework.
relating to remuneration Group revenue increased by 5.7% to another review of component teams procedures by the EPS and cash flow targets at the start of the The Committee reviewed and considered the record level: CONCLUSION group team.
The Audit Committee and KPMG year which were viewed as appropriately impact of the new UK Corporate Governance Adjusted operating profit increased by 10.9% As a result of its work during the year, the Audit LLP have discussed the review findings and challenging.
The targets are disclosed in the Code and legislation on Seniors remuneration 12.9% on a constant currency basis and Committee has concluded that it has acted in the identified limited improvement observations, Annual Report on Remuneration on page 66. practices.
Many areas introduced are already included higher research and development accordance with its Terms of Reference.
At its and are satisfied with responses to be Awards for the year at 74.97% of maximum part of Seniors practices, for example, expenditure: meeting held on 26 February 2019, the Audit implemented by KPMG LLP in the 2018 audit.
reflect the progress the Company has made workforce remuneration as a whole is taken into Committee considered each section of the The Groups adjusted operating margin Overall, the results of the review raised no during the year against the targets set.
consideration when setting executive directors Annual Report & Accounts 2018, and the increased by 40 basis points, to 8.5% for issues which cast doubt on the fundamental pay, holding periods are in place for Seniors Awards made under the LTIP in 2016 were document as a whole, as proposed by the the full year: quality of Seniors external audit and the Audit LTIP, the Committee has the ability to exercise subject to Adjusted EPS and TSR performance Company: it reached a conclusion and advised Committee remains satisfied with the efficiency Adjusted earnings per share increased by discretion on remuneration plan outcomes and measured over three years up to the end of 2018. the Board that it considered the Annual Report and effectiveness of the external audit.
11.7%: and the Committees Terms of Reference already Unfortunately, the targets were not achieved, & Accounts 2018 to be fair, balanced and The Group continues to generate healthy include the responsibility for determining and and the awards therefore lapsed in full.
understandable and that it provided the cash flows.
setting remuneration for the senior management.
information necessary for shareholders to The Committee is satisfied that the above assess the Groups position and performance, The Terms of Reference of the Committee have outcomes were a fair reflection of the been revised to further emphasise some of the business model and strategy.
The Chairman performance of the Company over the relevant of the Audit Committee will be available at the points brought out in the new legislation.
During performance periods for the incentive schemes.
2019, the Committee will develop a formal 2019 AGM to answer any questions about the The Committee did not have to exercise any work of the Committee.
policy for post-employment shareholding discretion in agreeing the outcome of the requirements and review malus and clawback incentive plans.
provisions that are already in place.
In addition, the Committee will be considering the most 52 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 53
