Operational and financial review Operational and financial review Patrick Melrose UK and Ireland We have delivered an excellent operational and financial performance in the UK and Ireland at the same time as scaling growth in our new initiatives.
More customers than ever are choosing Sky to connect them to more of what they love across TV, broadband, talk and mobile.
Weve brought world-class original content to millions Sky Soundbox of homes, reset the standard for todays viewing experience with our innovative products and continued NOW TV available across more platforms our focus on delivering the best customer service.
We continue to extend our product penetration among different customer segments by broadening the ways customers can Over the last 12 months, we generated 8.9 billion in revenue, access Sky content, providing brilliant services that suit every 1 up 4%, with UK EBITDA growth of 9% to 1,888 million.
household and every person in that household.
By focusing on Our investment in new products and services grew our giving customers great value for money no matter how they customer base by 270,000 to 13 million.
At the same time, choose to access their favourite programmes, we have a variety our total paid-for products grew by 2.7 million to 44.7 million, of ways to grow our customer base.
while churn fell 120 basis points year on year to 10.3%.
NOW TV, our contract-free streaming service, attracts customers who want a low-cost, flexible way of accessing Sky content.
The Sky Q leads the way launch of the NOW TV Smart Stick the UKs cheapest streaming Across the UK and Ireland, we are building a bigger, better stick has made it even easier for customers to access content and more diversified business and central to our plans is the on any TV screen and comes with voice search functionality, extension of our product leadership and penetration.
Over the a first for the NOW TV platform.
When coupled with standalone past 12 months, Sky Q has consolidated its position as Europes NOW Broadband, which launched in January, we have given best home entertainment system.
Thousands of homes across customers ultimate flexibility with no contract, easy switching the UK and Ireland are choosing the service, resulting in an and a reliable, unlimited service.
average of 6,000 new Sky Q customers every day making Well extend NOW TVs availability across multiple platforms and it our fastest-selling product.
This year, we took another big devices through our new agreement with BT, which will see our leap forward in the evolution of Sky Q by rolling out the next full NOW TV service, including Sky Atlantic, become available on wave of major enhancements and new functionality.
Greater BT TVs set-top boxes next year.
This means that Skys portfolio personalisation based on viewing habits, the expansion of voice of TV entertainment brands will be available to all UK consumers search and the introduction of voice control means viewers through every major pay TV service, reaching new customers can now discover more relevant content, more easily.
A new and expanding the appeal of our channels to advertisers.
wide-screen user interface allows users to simply navigate the breadth of programmes available, while the amount of Ultra HD Scaling communications programming on Sky Q has doubled over the past 12 months.
The result of all this is more engaged customers who enjoy more Using the appeal of the Sky brand, we have extended our video on demand, make more purchases through Sky Store, are product penetration by expanding our services.
Sky Mobile bigger advocates of Sky and are therefore less likely to switch shook up the mobile industry when it launched last year and to a different provider.
the strength of the service has continued to be acknowledged through both customer response and industry recognition.
Creating the whole home entertainment experience Our customer-centric proposition along with the availability of Apple and Samsung tablets, has resulted in over half a million We want to connect customers to more of what they love and customers now taking the service with more than 95,000 in November we joined forces with Devialet one of the worlds new Sky Mobile customers added in the final quarter alone.
most innovative audio businesses to create Sky Soundbox, The service has also been ranked a top provider by Which?
meeting customer needs for a greater sound experience.
This and won best MVNO at two major UK mobile industry awards.
all-in-one system significantly enhances Sky Q through groundbreaking acoustic technology.
With the introduction of Spotify At the same time our broadband business goes from strength on the platform earlier this year, we are able to give customers to strength, with a growing subscriber base and fibre penetration a simple, high-quality home music solution with access to now standing at 38%.
Weve also launched Sky Talk Shield, giving over 35 million songs.
Together, these partnerships are a customers more control over the calls they wish to receive at no demonstration of how well continue to consolidate additional cost.
The best and broadest choice of content This year we have continued to build on our outstanding track record of delivering the content customers want to watch.
Weve 1 This is an adjusted measure and a reconciliation between statutory and adjusted measures can be found on page 135. stepped up our investment in high-quality, original drama, which 16 Sky plc Strategic report sports rights deals secured this year include extensions and enhanced rights to the English Football League, the England and Wales Cricket Board and the Ladies European Tour.
Creating the best customer service Our focus on providing the best customer service in the industry is integral to all our plans.
We continue to invest in new ways to interact with our customers so issues are resolved first time and it remains a simple and smooth process to contact Sky.
This year, investment in our digital service has introduced artificial intelligence, enabling us to quickly connect our customers to the most suitable person to resolve their query.
In addition, weve implemented a service concierge bot to the Save Me My Sky app, giving customers an immediate response when using this digital platform.
Over 50% of basic customer transactions has driven viewing up over 50% year on year.
Britannia, starring are now being completed digitally, with the My Sky app being David Morrissey, delivered Skys second-biggest show launch so used by 2 million customers every month.
far, attracting 1.9 million views in the first week alone.
Meanwhile, Save Me, starring Lennie James, became our most rapidly Our superior service was once again recognised by Ofcom as a consumed box-set release, with more than one million customers result of receiving the lowest number of complaints across TV, watching all six episodes in the first two weeks.
Patrick Melrose, broadband and telephone for the ninth consecutive quarter.
starring Benedict Cumberbatch, launched with much critical acclaim, receiving the highest number of five-star reviews Rewarding customer loyalty with Sky VIP for a Sky original production to date, and receiving five Emmy Award nominations.
We have also strengthened the Sky One brand by moving into more original British comedy, entertainment and drama with shows like Bulletproof, Carmageddon and In the Long Run.
We also announced the rebrand of Sky Living to become Sky Sky VIP Witness, continuing to bring viewers the best of the US and procedural dramas, while driving greater customer awareness At the same time as improving service for all customers, we and viewer attribution to the channel.
launched Sky VIP, the first tenure-based loyalty programme in the TV and broadband sector, meaning the longer customers have been with Sky, the better the rewards become.
1.9 million customers have signed up to the scheme and we are already seeing a positive impact on customer retention.
We expect membership and awareness of Sky VIP to grow over the next 12 months as we market the proposition formally to customers for the first time.
Acting on important issues Over the past 12 months, weve been taking more action through our Sky Ocean Rescue campaign, firmly putting the challenge of single-use plastic on the agenda of governments, businesses and consumers.
Our actions have started at home, where we Bulletproof have committed to removing single-use plastics from our own business, operations and supply chains by 2020.
We are on The strengthening of Sports, where we launched 10 new sports track to meet those targets, with 70 tonnes of single-use plastic channels, has given customers more choice at no extra cost.
removed from our business to date, 25% of our total usage.
With channels dedicated to our biggest sports, customers For example, along with disposable coffee cups, weve removed are now able to enjoy Sky Sports for as little as 60 pence a all single-use plastic water bottles, plastic straws and plastic day, giving them exceptional value for money.
As a result, total cutlery from our offices.
Our new products, the NOW TV Smart consumption per subscriber across our sports channels was Stick and the Sky Soundbox, both launched without any singleup 5% year on year.
At the same time, we secured a number of use plastic packaging, and Sky Mobile SIMs will shortly be sent significant rights deals over the last 12 months on behalf of our to customers in cardboard packaging, instead of plastic.
We successfully negotiated more Premier League not always the easiest or cheapest decisions to make, we hope matches than ever before, including every first-pick weekend our actions will inspire others to adopt similar principles within match, plus Saturday evening fixtures for the first time, at a their own organisations.
notable discount to our current agreement.
Other significant Annual Report 2018 17 Germany and Austria Our comprehensive upgrades started in February with the Sky Weve made significant progress transforming our Kids app, including the implementation of an updated user business in Germany and Austria over the past 12 interface and new interactive features including online games.
We have rebalanced our trading strategy, This was coupled with improved security features to make brought industry-leading products to market while sure parents and children can enjoy watching, in the knowledge at the same time comprehensively upgrading all our that only suitable content is accessible.
At the same time, existing services and securing long-term content rights.
we upgraded our Sky Go service, adding over 70 channels, an improved search functionality and a new intuitive design guided The substantial improvements we have made to our products by genre, the same as that used in the UK and meaning it is now and operations have transformed the customer experience even easier for customers to find the content they love on the go.
and now provide a solid foundation to kick start our next We delivered a major upgrade for our Sky customers in March, stage of growth in what is Europes largest TV market.
including a content-rich new user interface that highlights key Over the last 12 months, we generated 2 billion in revenue, up shows and offers a more personalised viewing experience.
This 1 6%, with EBITDA of 119 million, only 28 million lower year on followed the launch of Sky Store which offers customers greater year, despite the 153 million step up in costs of the German choice and flexibility over their movie watching.
Finally, in June, Bundesliga contract.
New products and services grew our Sky Ticket customers benefited from a new continue watching customer base by 200,000 to 5.2 million, and our total paid-for feature and a personalised home screen design, making it even products grew to 8.9 million, up 113,000 year on year.
Churn was easier to binge watch the shows they love on this flexible 15.0%, as we lost some lower value customers, and we expect streaming platform.
it to improve as the set of comprehensive initiatives weve Weve taken a big leap forward in our Ultra HD UHD offering.
launched this year begin to take effect.
For the first time in Germany, Sky secured the exclusive UHD broadcasting rights to 25 matches at the 2018 FIFA World Cup.
Sky Q as the new viewing standard The deal means that Sky was the only German broadcaster to The best entertainment offer starts with the best viewing show the top match of the day live in UHD.
In May, we set a new standard for TV viewing in partnership with Vodafone and Unitymedia which means Skys Germany and Austria, with the launch of our next-generation TV live sports and cinema content can be watched in razor-sharp platform, Sky Q.
The launch has revolutionised the TV experience UHD at scale across Germany.
for our customers and follows the successful roll-out of Sky Pro Taken together, all these upgrades mean we have significantly in autumn 2016.
Sky Q now allows customers to watch on multiple increased the value customers are getting from Sky and our screens simultaneously, and gives viewers a more intuitive user services have become more attractive to new customers interface.
Almost one million Sky Pro customers automatically taking a Sky subscription for the first time.
received the Sky Q user interface and functionality via a software update throughout May and June.
In addition, the Sky Q box is Strong year on screen now offered to new customers as standard, accelerating the platforms growth and enabling us to further drive product penetration.
As in other territories, Sky Q is set to transform our business in Germany and Austria by building deeper engagement with our customers, increasing viewing and greater loyalty, in turn delivering higher satisfaction scores.
Transforming the viewing experience As well as launching Sky Q, we significantly upgraded all of Skys product experiences in Germany and Austria with a renewed focus on value for money, ensuring we have a world-class service for every household no matter how they wish to access Sky.
Das Boot 1 This is an adjusted measure and a reconciliation between statutory and adjusted Sky Kids measures can be found on page 135.
18 Sky plc Strategic report Investing in customer service and loyalty Alongside our significantly enhanced customer proposition, we are step changing our customer service, focusing on strengthening our in-house capabilities while taking the next steps in digital-first delivery.
In January, we opened a new service centre in Berlin that will create hundreds of new jobs over the years ahead, becoming a centre of excellence for customer retention.
Weve also launched the Mein Sky app enabling customers to easily manage their subscription and quickly resolve issues using video tutorials and helpful hints and tips.
The app has already been downloaded 750,000 times.
In May, along with the launch of Sky Q, we introduced simplified pricing and packaging structures, giving customers clear, simple and consistent price points for our premium sports and cinema channels.
Finally, following our success in Italy and the UK, we will launch a tenure-based customer loyalty scheme in Germany in the MasterChef autumn of 2018.
The new scheme will take learnings from other territories, rewarding customers throughout their time with In order to deliver the best entertainment experience, we have Sky, with the aim of improving customer retention and increasing also focused on accelerating the broadening of our content brand loyalty.
Our original content has performed very well with viewing of our dramas up three fold year on year.
This has been led by Acting on important issues the success of Babylon Berlin, our first German-language Sky original production, which was watched by over half a million Were committed to removing single-use plastics from across viewers per episode and won eight TV awards.
Viewers also the Group and have already removed 58% of single-use enjoyed the second series of MasterChef, with audiences three plastic across catering and cleaning in Germany and Austria.
times higher compared to the first season.
The success is set to Were taking our approach and embedding it within content be repeated next year with Das Boot, Acht Tage, Der Pass and production, with more sustainable and single-use plastic the HBO-Sky co-production Chernobyl coming to Sky customers free alternatives used across a number of series including across Germany.
In August, we are also launching X Factor on MasterChef, X-Factor and Acht Tage.
In addition, Sky Ocean Sky 1 following its success in Italy.
Ventures was launched at the Royal Jungle Conference in Munich in May, bringing together thousands of entrepreneurs Expanding the reach of Sky Sport and start-ups to inspire them in how we can help solve the oceans plastic crisis together.
While increasing the breadth and range of entertainment programming, we have remained a clear leader in sports.
This By focusing on sustainability and carefully considering product year we have secured an important set of rights for the future recycling in the design of Sky Pro, weve been able to refurbish including the main German football cup competition, DFB-Pokal, and return over 90% of all set-top boxes to market over the past for a further three years, ensuring only Sky customers will be able 12 months.
In addition, following a review of Skys investments in to watch all 63 matches each season until 2022.
We also made environmental efficiencies, Sky Deutschland has been awarded a milestone agreement for the worldwide rights to the Austrian the KOPROFIT environmental certification, further cementing Bundesliga, ensuring exclusive coverage in Austria for the first our position as an environmental leader within our industry.
time across a three-year deal beginning with the 2018 19 season.
These rights join those we have for UEFA Champions League next season, providing pay TV exclusive coverage to this tournament, for the first time in Germany and Austria.
At the same time the quality of our sports coverage has become even better with the opening of Sky Sport HQ, a new state of the art production centre just outside Munich, close to our German headquarters.
Sky Sport HQ boasts four studios split over 1,700 square metres and has brought together all Sky Sport content across broadcast and online into a single location.
Annual Report 2018 19 Italy breakthrough has the potential to significantly increase This has been a ground-breaking year for our Italian Skys footprint both in Italy and across Europe by widening business.
Customers in Italy now have more choice than the potential pool of subscribers and attracting new ever before over how they watch content, with Sky now customers who either cant have or dont want a satellite dish.
available across satellite, OTT, DTT and fibre.
Bringing together this industry-leading connectivity with an Boosting Italian connectivity with Open Fiber ever-greater breadth and depth of world-class content The roll-out of Sky over fibre will be further accelerated by our means the business will continue to attract more innovative partnership with Open Fiber, Italys leading builder customers to Sky.
The deal, which will be operational from summer 2019, gives Sky access to Open Fibers FTTH network, which is set to reach the 271 main urban areas Over the last 12 months, like-for-like revenue increased 6% of the country by 2022.
Additionally, the agreement will enable 1 to 2.6 billion, with EBITDA growth of 29% to 342 million.
us to increase our product penetration among customers Launching our offer across new platforms while continuing through the launch of a new triple-play offer next year.
to invest in our existing products and services grew our customer base by 40,000 to 4.8 million, and took our total Renewing NOW TV paid-for products to 9.2 million, up 263,000 year on year.
Another way were servicing our Italian customers is through our pay-as-you-go streaming service, NOW TV, which we continue Becoming a major multi-platform, multi-product company to make even better.
This year, we launched the NOW TV Smart Stick to the Italian market, refreshed the brand, and delivered a new user interface along with new features that will allow customers to download and play on the go.
Our partnerships will further widen our potential customer pool for NOW TV too.
Through a new deal with Fastweb, were now able to offer NOW TV customers access to a broadband package when purchasing our streaming product.
Similarly, Fastweb customers can now purchase NOW TV Entertainment passes through one provider.
Sky Q NOW TV Smart Stick Sky in Italy has now become a truly multi-platform business, giving customers new and innovative ways to access our Upgrading Sky Go service.
Through product launches including Sky Q and As well as expanding the number of platforms the Sky service new agreements weve made this year, weve never been is on, weve continued to enhance and expand our number of better positioned for long-term growth in this market.
products, driving more value into customers subscriptions.
In March, we agreed a landmark deal with Mediaset that has This year we revamped Sky Go with a new-look user interface already allowed us to launch a new Sky pay TV service on digital that makes it easier for viewers to find and watch their favourite terrestrial television DTT, utilising transmissions capacity programmes, as well as enabling on demand content to be offered by Mediaset Group.
The new Sky on DTT service enables watched on smartphones.
The upgrade also includes the customers to sign up for Sky in a simple and convenient way capability for subtitles, with a new Sky Go desktop app for through their TV, without the need for installation of a satellite Windows and iOS to be launched over the next year.
The service features 15 channels dedicated to entertainment, films and sport and will enable The biggest and best shows us to reach customers in segments we havent done so before.
As with our other markets, our market-leading suite of products sits alongside the very best choice of TV content.
Our focus is on Launching Sky over fibre giving customers the best range and quality of content possible Our multi-platform approach has extended to delivery over fibre.
through both our own productions or acquired programmes.
In order to give customers even more choice and flexibility, at the As part of our deal with Mediaset, weve made nine film and TV same time as ensuring a great TV experience, we launched Sky series channels available to Skys existing satellite customers, over fibre at the beginning of June our first major territory to benefit from the new technology that delivers our Sky TV service without the need for a satellite dish.
This technological 1 This is an adjusted measure and a reconciliation between statutory and adjusted measures can be found on page 135.
20 Sky plc Strategic report the exclusive home to seven games out of 10 on each match day more than twice as many exclusive matches versus today and will feature 16 of the 20 biggest matches each season.
Under the terms of the new deal, Sky will pay around a third less for each exclusive match versus the current agreement.
Our new deal with Mediaset will also enable us to broadcast the matches over DTT for the first time, reaching more football fans than ever before.
The Serie A rights will add to the already extensive sports offer available on Sky, including majority exclusive UEFA Champions League, Formula 1, Europa League and Moto GP coverage.
Sky Sport and Calcio viewership continues to perform well, with X Factor Serie A Championship up 6% over the last year, due to a more delivering even greater value.
This deal will further enrich Skys competitive tournament, and Formula 1 grew 23% year on year wide-ranging library of on demand content, bringing viewers due the victories of the Ferrari team.
the best of both local and global programming.
Our own original productions have focused on giving audiences shows with strong local cultural relevance and made with international execution standards.
Were also working with industry leading talent including Alessandro Cattelan, the host of X Factor and one of Italys most talented showmen, as well as the critically acclaimed actor Salvatore Esposito, a lead in our Sky original production Gomorrah.
This approach is working, with viewing of Sky original dramas up 15% year on year.
Within this, viewing of X Factor Italia was up again this year, including an 8% rise for the series finale.
The third series of our hit show Gomorrah also performed very strongly, ranking number one at the box office when we released the first two episodes in cinemas prior to its premiere on Sky Atlantic.
Il Miracolo also Serie A received acclaim from customers and critics, with viewing higher Customer service than international US programmes and on a par with the last series of Game of Thrones.
Our customer service experience in Italy continues to improve with our focus on enhancing digital channels working well.
60% of customer service requests are now self-served, up 5% year on year.
Over 2 million customers are also enrolled in our loyalty scheme following its relaunch in April, making it simpler for customers to engage with the programme and offering more Sky-based rewards.
Acting on important issues Our Sky Ocean Rescue campaign has also been rolled out in Italy.
In April, we removed all single-use plastic water bottles from our sites, supplying staff with reusable bottles, meaning weve now saved 8 tonnes of plastics from our Italian operations.
We also continued our commitment to removing single-use plastic from our operations by launching the NOW TV Smart Stick in Italy without any single-use plastic packaging, and replaced all NOW Gomorrah TV pre-paid plastic cards with cardboard.
The home of sports in Italy The campaign reached new audiences in Italy through a In sports, weve also secured an important set of rights this year collaboration with X Factor that saw the stage set made of that position us well to give more value to existing customers, single-use plastic.
We also used our partnerships within sport and attract new customers to take our service.
to inspire fans and spectators at the San Marino Grand Prix to take action to safeguard ocean health, while we worked We have acquired exclusive rights to broadcast 266 live games with the Misano GP to reduce single-use plastic on site.
per season for the 2018 2021 seasons of Serie A, Italys top domestic league.
The new deal means Sky Sports in Italy will be Annual Report 2018 21
