26 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICERS REVIEW FY2018 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Revenue REVENUE The Group returned to growth, with 3,280m 126 m 1m 58m 3,213m 1 underlying revenue up 2%.
This marked an important milestone on our journey to deliver sustained outperformance.
Reported revenue of 3,213m FY2017: 3,280m was down 2 % primarily due to 126 m of adverse foreign 1 exchange translation.
Underlying revenue 3 1 FY2017 FX A&D Underlying FY2018 was up 2%, or 58m.
Growth in John Crane, Flex-Tek and Smiths Detection 2 OPERATING PROFIT was partially offset by the performance in Smiths Medical and Smiths Interconnect.
589m 40 m 26 m 8m 531m 13m 544m Second half growth was 5%, reflecting an improving trend over the year.
Operating profit On a reported basis, headline operating profit of 544m FY2017: 589m was 3 1 down 8 %.
After adjustment for 40 m of FY2017 Reclassification FX A&D FY2017 Underlying FY2018 Pro Forma restructuring and pension administration costs reported as non-headline in FY2017, 26 m of adverse foreign Operating profit on a statutory basis, exchange translation and an 8m net after taking account of the items impact from acquisitions and disposals, excluded from the headline figures, headline operating profit was up 3% on was 494m FY2017: 674m see note 1 an underlying basis.
This was driven 3 to the accounts for information on the 1 by good underlying headline operating excluded items.
Non-headline charges profit growth in Smiths Detection, John of 50 m reflect the change in reporting Crane and Flex-Tek, partially offset of restructuring costs and pension by the disruptions in Smiths Medical.
administration costs as headline items Central costs decreased by 5m on an FY2017: 33 m restructuring costs 1 underlying basis to 57 m, but included and 7 m operating charge for pension increased investment in innovation to administration were classified as nonsupport sustainable growth.
headline items and the 175m profit on disposal of businesses generated in FY2017.
1 Underlying: modifies headline performance to: adjust prior year to reflect an equivalent period of ownership for divested businesses: include restructuring and pension administration costs as headline for both years: and exclude the effects of foreign exchange, acquisitions and supplemental sales for divested businesses.
See the presentation of results note on p129 for further details.
2 Headline: definitions of headline metrics, and information about adjustments to statutory measures are provided in note 3 to the financial statements.
3 Includes disposals and FY2018 performance from acquisitions that do not have comparators for the prior year.
27 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements Margin Total profit and earnings per share Operating cash Headline operating margin increased Total statutory profit for the year of 279m Cash conversion was good at 99% 1 10bps to 16.9% on an underlying and EPS of 70.0p was down 51% on a FY2017: 118% translating into basis.
This improvement was driven by reported basis, impacted by the nonheadline operating cash-flow of 538m 1 continued focus on operational excellence, headline items: but on an underlying FY2017: 695m.
Statutory operating as well as volume growth and Morpho basis EPS was up 4%.
cost synergies, partially offset by the See note 29 to the financial statements R&D disruptions in Smiths Medical.
On a for a reconciliation of headline operating The Groups investment in R&D was reported basis headline operating margin cash to statutory cash-flow measures.
maintained with R&D cash costs at decreased 110 bps.
Pension 4.6% of sales or 147m FY2017: 4.6% Finance costs or 150m.
The net accounting pension position Headline finance costs of 57 m has improved to a surplus of 381m R&D income statement costs increased FY2017: 61 m were 4m lower driven FY2017: 224m.
The Group continues 1 to 131m FY2017: 125m, an underlying by the repayment of higher coupon debt.
to work with the Trustees to fide-risk the increase of 8%.
In FY2018, we reported Statutory finance costs were 59 m pension schemes.
In August 2017, the our Vitality Index of 13% for the first FY2017: 73 m. Smiths Industries Pension Scheme SIPS time.
It measures the revenue from new entered a 207m buy-in with Canada Life, products launched in the past three years Tax and in December 2017 the US scheme as a percentage of total revenue.
The principles of the Groups approach paid $36m to members who opted to take to taxation remain unchanged.
The Group lump sums in lieu of pension.
Net capex, Depreciation & Amortisation seeks to manage the cost of taxation in Net capex at 102m FY2017: 98m In FY2017, formal valuations of the Groups a responsible manner to enhance its represented 1.1x depreciation and principal UK defined benefit schemes competitive position on a global basis amortisation, broadly in line with last were undertaken one year ahead of the while managing its relationships with tax year FY2017: 1.0x.
triennial deadline and concluded in June authorities on the basis of full disclosure, 2018.
The updated valuations showed that co-operation and legal compliance.
Working capital SIPS had a surplus of 32m and the TI The headline tax charge for the year of Movement in working capital was an Group Pension Scheme had a 35m deficit 126m FY2017: 140m represents an outflow of 16 m FY2017: 85m inflow, on a funding basis.
The Company has effective rate of 25.8% FY2017: 26.5%.
reflecting higher receivables following agreed to continue funding these schemes This was impacted by the new US tax strong growth in the latter part of the year with total annual contributions of 24m legislation, where 44% of our revenue as well as higher inventory to support FY2017: 27m.
The statutory tax rate of 35.9% the return to growth.
Working capital total cash contributions of up to 45m includes one-time costs associated with as a percentage of sales improved across all schemes FY2018: 49m.
An effective tax rate of c. 25% is expected Accounting valuation Cash contribution for the year ending 31 July 2019.
FY2018 FY2017 Going forward FY2018 The forecast has been updated to SIPS scheme 303m 213m 12m 24m recognise the impacts of a shift in profit TI scheme 223m 177m 12m 3m mix and non-deductibles.
Total UK schemes 526m 390m 24m 27m Total Group 381m 224m c. 45m 49m 28 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED Acquisitions and disposals Titeflex Corporation litigation Dividend During the year, the Group acquired Titeflex Corporation, a subsidiary of The Board has a progressive dividend two businesses and made one disposal.
the Group in the Flex-Tek division, has policy, aiming to increase dividends in For more information, please read notes received a number of claims in recent line with long-term underlying growth 26, 27 and 28 of the accounts.
years from insurance companies seeking in earnings and cash-flow.
This policy recompense on a subrogated basis for enables us to retain sufficient cash-flow On 1 November 2017, Flex-Tek acquired the effects of damage allegedly caused to finance investment in the drivers of the heating element division of Osram by its flexible gas piping products being growth and meet our financial obligations.
It has In setting the level of dividend payments, On 31 May 2018, John Crane disposed also received a number of product the Board takes into account prevailing of its Bearings business for $35m.
liability claims relating to this product, economic conditions and future On 13 June 2018, John Crane acquired some in the form of purported class investment plans, along with the objective from Seebach GmbH a highly actions.
Titeflex Corporation believes to maintain minimum dividend cover of technological filtration business that its products are a safe and effective around 2.0x.
means of delivering gas when installed The Board is recommending a in accordance with the manufacturers final dividend of 30.75p per share Litigation instructions and local and national codes: FY2017: 29.70p per share, to be paid Smiths Group faces different types however some claims have been settled on 16 November 2018 to shareholders of litigation in different jurisdictions.
on an individual basis without admission on the register at close of business on Please see below an update on the of liability.
This will bring the total two litigation provisions.
For more At 31 July 2018, provision of 78m dividend for the year to 44.55p per share information, please refer to note 22 FY2017: 84m has been made for the FY2017: 43.25p per share, a year-on-year of the accounts.
costs which the Group expects to incur increase of 3%.
in respect of these claims.
John Crane, Inc. litigation Dividends paid in the year on John Crane, Inc. JCI, a subsidiary of For both litigation provisions, because of ordinary shares amounted to 172m the Group, continues to actively monitor the significant uncertainty associated with FY2017: 167m, which were covered the conduct and effect of its current and the future level of claims and of the costs by the Groups free cash-flow generation.
expected asbestos litigation, including the arising out of the related litigation, there is effective presentation of its safe product Debt no guarantee that the assumptions used defence, and intends to resist these Net debt at 31 July 2018 was 893m, to estimate the provision will result in an asbestos cases based on this defence.
a reduction of 74m in the period.
accurate prediction of the actual costs Approximately 277,000 claims against JCI Net debt to EBITDA remained unchanged that may be incurred.
have been dismissed before trial over the at 1.4x.
Gross debt was 1,610m last 39 years.
JCI is currently a defendant Free cash flow FY2017: 1,749m and cash reserves in cases involving approximately 43,000 Free cash flow of 302m FY2017: 370m were 717m FY2017: 782m.
Despite these large numbers of decreased by 18 % reflecting the 157m debt, 203m fell due within one year: claims, since the inception of litigation decrease in headline operating cash-flow, the majority was repaid in September JCI has had final judgments against it in offset by lower pension contributions and 2018 when the Group redeemed $250m 140 cases, and has had to pay awards tax payments.
See note 29 to the accounts 7.2% Notes.
Our strong balance sheet amounting to approximately $164m.
continues to allow us to deploy significant further investment capacity to support At 31 July 2018, the aggregate provision sustainable growth.
for JCI asbestos litigation, including for adverse judgments and defence costs, The maturity profile of the major tranches amounted to 223m 2017: 237m of the debt in issue is as follows: expressed at the then current exchange 2019 190m $250m 7.20% bond, which rate.
In deciding upon the amount of the was repaid early in September 2018 provision, JCI has relied on independent expert advice from a specialist.
2022 298m $400m 3.625% bond 2023 533m 600m 1.25% bond 2027 575m 650m 2.00% bond 29 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements Return on capital employed NET DEBT BRIDGE ROCE declined 160 bps to 14.6% FY2017: 16.2% primarily due to the 5.5 years 3.7% BBB Baa2 reclassification of restructuring and Weighted average Weighted average Stable credit rating pension administration costs as headline debt maturity interest rate items.
The ROCE movement also reflects recent investments, such as the 967m 8 m 302m 71 m 29m 172 m 6 m 893m acquisition of Morpho Detection, which are expected to generate superior returns over the longer-term.
Net Debt EBITDA 1.4x Accounting policies and recent accounting developments Free The accounts in this report are prepared FY2017 FX Cash-Flow Acquisitions Divestitures Dividend Other FY2018 under IFRS, as adopted by the European Union EU.
The accounting policies used in preparing these accounts are set out Exchange rates on pages 127 to 133.
The results of overseas operations are translated into sterling at average A number of new standards and exchange rates.
The net assets amendments to standards and are translated at period-end rates.
interpretations have been issued but The principal exchange rates, expressed are not yet effective for the current in terms of the value of sterling, are accounting period.
None of these are shown in the following table.
expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the EXCHANGE RATES Group.
For further details, please refer to page 133.
Certain standards which Average rates Period-end rates could be expected to have an impact 31 July 31 July 31 July 31 July are outlined below.
2018 2017 2018 2017 IFRS 9: Financial instruments the USD 1.35 1.27 USD weakened by 6% 1.31 1.32 USD strengthened by 1% changes will not have a quantitative EUR 1.13 1.16 EUR strengthened by 3% 1.12 1.12 EUR unchanged impact on the financial statements.
An expected credit loss will need to be recognised on all financial assets JOHN SHIPSEY held at amortised costs as well as CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER qualitative enhancements to the interest rate and foreign currency risk management disclosures.
IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers a reasonable estimate of the expected impact on the reported results for FY2018: a 16 m reduction in revenue, no impact on operating profit and a 1 m reduction in net assets.
IFRS 16: Leases the standard now requires all material lease liabilities and corresponding right of use assets to be recognised on the balance sheet.
30 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 DIVISIONAL REVIEW JOHN CRANE Mission-critical solutions for global energy and process industries FY2018 PERFORMANCE Revenue Headline operating profit Headline operating margin 881m 202m 22.9% 1 1 5% 6% COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS REVENUE BY SECTOR REVENUE MIX A global leader in flow control for rotating equipment Strong proprietary technology and expertise in applied engineering Broad installed base in Oil & Gas and Non-Oil & Gas Strong aftermarket service offering with c. 200 sales and service centres Long-term customer relationships Oil & Gas c. 56% Original equipment 33% GROWTH DRIVERS Non-Oil & Gas c. 44% Aftermarket 67% Oil & gas markets recovering driven by underlying energy demand Expansion in high growth markets CUSTOMERS PRINCIPAL OPERATING REGIONS Pent-up demand for maintenance We serve process industries including We have operations in more than 50 and upgrades in oil & gas oil & gas, pharmaceutical, chemical, countries, including around 200 sales and petrochemical petrochemical, power generation, and service centres.
Need for operation improvements in mining, water treatment, and pulp non-oil & gas industries & paper, as well as pump and turbo machinery original equipment Disruptive innovations including manufacturers OEMs.
Our customers materials science advancements include Chevron, International Paper, and digital transformation ExxonMobil, Shell, BASF, Sulzer, GE, Solar and Siemens.
SUPPLIERS COMPETITORS We align purchasing across our Our main competitors are Flowserve global supply chain with regional and Eagle Burgmann seals and 1 Underlying: modifies headline performance to: adjust prior year to reflect an equivalent period of ownership procurement.
Direct sourcing includes systems, Danaher and Hydac for divested businesses: include restructuring and metals, ceramics, and advanced filtration, and Rexnord couplings.
pension administration costs as headline for both years: and exclude the effects of foreign exchange, materials and parts.
acquisitions and supplemental sales for divested businesses.
31 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements Our primary vertical market oil & gas Around 67% of our sales stem from the MARKETS AND TRENDS has experienced the most severe market aftermarket servicing and support of We combine technology leadership downturn in the last 30 years.
Major oil & existing installed equipment, which has with proven field experience, gas producers remain cautious around proven resilient.
We continue to expand helping to optimise customers capital expenditures in the face of low and our footprint through opening new service manufacturing operations.
volatile commodity prices, although we centres in selected higher-growth Our comprehensive product portfolio have seen improving market sentiment markets, as well as the best in class field includes mechanical seals, seal and expect a gradual recovery over the service teams.
support systems, power transmission next few years.
In particular, customers couplings and specialised filtration are investing in growing areas such as systems.
These engineered solutions liquified natural gas and pipelines, and we drive reliability improvements in have recently seen increased aftermarket customer operations.
activity in the form of demand for ongoing maintenance and upgrades.
Our large installed base built over the last century across several vertical We believe mega trends, such as the markets drives significant aftermarket global demand for energy, higher demand.
We have one of the largest productivity and more stringent global sales and service networks environmental and safety requirements, ensuring proximity to customers and will continue to generate demand for our rapid service.
These centres provide a products over the longer term.
range of services, including repair and We also have a significant and growing refurbishment, upgrades and retrofits, presence in other process industries root cause analysis, and alignment around 44% of revenue, including and condition monitoring to improve pharmaceutical, chemical, power equipment performance and reduce generation, mining, water treatment, operational downtime.
We expect these verticals will continue to grow in the near term, helped by building demand in higher-growth regions.
Although global industrial production forecasts remain cautious due to an uncertain macroenvironment, drivers such as improved plant productivity, workforce safety and equipment reliability will continue to create growth opportunities over the medium to long term.
GOING ABOVE AND BEYOND FOR OUR CUSTOMERS RESPONDING TO HURRICANE HARVEY After the devastation of Hurricane Harvey in Texas, John Crane worked around the clock to help return a petrochemical customers major polyethylene facility to full operation.
Working in an extremely challenging environment replacing and repairing over 300 items, including our wet and dry gas seals, the plants returned to full capacity safely and ahead of schedule, reducing downtime and lost revenue.
32 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED JOHN CRANE STRATEGY CONTINUED Our strategy is to reinforce our global leadership in technologies and services for rotating equipment, with a competitively differentiated offering that will deliver above-market, long-term growth in the most attractive process industries.
We will maintain differentiation by investing in product development, broadening our aftermarket value proposition, delivering operational excellence with a particular focus on safety and quality, and accelerating growth through bolt-on acquisitions.
We will also continue to diversify into non-oil & gas segments and higher-growth regions.
applications, and providing innovative PROGRESS IN FY2018 solutions and capabilities to grow Continued success in penetrating into mission-critical chemical and non-oil & gas sectors, particularly in process industries chemical, pharmaceutical, mining, pulp & paper and general industry Successful divestment of our Bearings business Further progress in our continuous improvement and lean manufacturing journey to reduce PRIORITIES FOR FY2019 waste and increase productivity Continue expansion in selected Product development for various process industries markets including the launch of Develop and launch new products a new pipeline seal, a new single and expand more into innovative use seal, a new line of competitive digital technologies filtration elements and continued expansion of the Aura dry gas seal Enhance productivity and cost product range competitiveness throughout the supply chain Continued investment in digital transformation technology for John Maximise aftermarket performance Crane Sense and expand our service offering Co-branding and development Build out selected highof a pump seal performance growth markets management system with Successful integration of a customer Seebach GmbH Acquisition of Seebach GmbH to Expand manufacturing complement John Cranes existing network capacity to serve our filtration business, further enhancing growing markets its technology leadership in energy DID YOU KNOW...
Since John Crane launched its innovative dry gas seal technology, weve helped to prevent millions of tonnes of methane from being vented to the atmosphere, helping to protect our environment and saving our customers money.
33 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements FY2018 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 1 Underlying Reported Cash R&D expenditure during FY2018 FY2017 change change the period increased by 15% to Revenue 881m 885m 5% Flat 1.3% of sales FY2017: 1.1%.
2 Headline operating profit 202m 204m 6% 1 % Product developments included: 2 Headline operating margin 22.9% 23.0% 10bps 10 bps TM A new dry gas seal in the Aura range Statutory operating profit 199m 190m 5% which reduces methane emissions Return on capital employed 22.9% 22.9% Flat An advanced seal for crude oil R&D % of revenue 1.3% 1.1% 20bps pipeline pumps which supports pump efficiency and tolerance of harsh operating environments PERFORMANCE Revenue from higher-growth regions, which represent 25% of sales, grew 14% An innovative filtration design tool to John Crane delivered a good 1 enhance performance on an underlying basis with strong sales performance, returning to growth with 1 growth in China.
revenue up 5% on an underlying basis.
Continued development of John Cranes TM Reported revenue was flat, reflecting Sense predictive diagnostics systems Headline operating profit of 202m 31 m of adverse foreign exchange 1 increased 6% on an underlying translation and a 16 m net impact from basis, driven by improved volumes.
the disposals of Artificial Lift and the Headline operating profit margin was Bearings business, and the acquisition of 1 22.9%, up 10bps on an underlying basis Seebach GmbH.
with the positive impact of volume 1 growth partially offset by geographic Underlying sales from John Cranes Oil & mix and the costs of restarting capacity.
Gas and Non-Oil & Gas activities were up The difference between statutory and c. 7% and c. 3% respectively, reflecting the headline operating profit primarily improving trend in global energy markets reflects movement in the provision for and continued growth in John Cranes John Crane, Inc. asbestos litigation, offset chemical, pharma, mining and pulp & by gains on disposals.
These market conditions were also reflected in improving ROCE was flat at 22.9% driven by the 1 underlying sales of Original Equipment net impact of the two disposals, one OE, which were up 1%.
Investment in acquisition and increased profitability.
OE projects and the expansion of the John Crane has made further progress on installed base continued during the focusing the business on leading positions period.
Multiple new project agreements in attractive markets.
In May 2018, John were secured, including contracts in Oil Crane sold its Bearings business for & Gas in Asia and the Middle East, as well an enterprise value of $35m, and in as marine, chemical and pulp & paper June 2018 completed the acquisition contracts in the USA, Europe and Asia.
of Seebach GmbH, a highly engineered John Cranes large installed base and filtration solutions business, for an leading service offering positioned it well enterprise value of 60m.
We continue to satisfy pent-up aftermarket demand to look for opportunities to enhance for repairs, maintenance and upgrades: 1 John Cranes technology leadership and underlying aftermarket revenue grew 8% service offering.
2 Headline: definitions of headline metrics, and information about adjustments to statutory measures are provided in Note 3 to the financial statements.
34 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED SMITHS MEDICAL High-quality, cost-effective medical devices and consumables that are vital to patient care globally FY2018 PERFORMANCE Revenue Headline operating profit Headline operating margin 885m 156m 17.6% 1 1 2 % 14 % COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS REVENUE BY SECTOR REVENUE MIX A category leader in our chosen markets Trusted brands with a reputation for quality and safety Strong, defensible intellectual property c. 80% of revenue from single-use devices and proprietary consumables Strong customer relationships and extensive global sales network Infusion Systems 34% Original equipment 18% Vascular Access 33% Aftermarket consumables 82% GROWTH DRIVERS Vital Care and Specialty Products 33% Ageing populations with increasing personalised healthcare and patient expectation quality of life CUSTOMERS PRINCIPAL OPERATING REGIONS Increasing incidence of 80% of our revenue is derived from We sell our products in over 120 chronic diseases hospitals while the remainder comes countries, with operations in over 30.
Increasing need for connected from clinics, homecare providers, systems and data analytics surgery centres and products Growth of alternate site and homesold to other original equipment based healthcare manufacturers OEMs.
Growing healthcare spend in developing markets SUPPLIERS COMPETITORS Assured supply of quality products is Our competitors range from large critical in the industry.
We work with multi-national medical device our supply chain to reduce costs, drive manufacturers such as Medtronic, efficiencies, and ensure high quality Becton Dickinson, Baxter and B.
1 Underlying: modifies headline performance to: adjust standards and continuity of supply.
Braun, through to small, singleprior year to reflect an equivalent period of ownership for divested businesses: include restructuring and product companies.
pension administration costs as headline for both years: and exclude the effects of foreign exchange, acquisitions and supplemental sales for divested businesses.
35 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements Our Vascular Access products protect MARKETS AND TRENDS healthcare workers and patients from The medical device industry remains the risk of infection.
Our portfolio covers attractive, with strong growth drivers.
a range of functions, including drawing The global market we serve is estimated blood, catheters for the infusion of fluids to be 7.2bn and growing at 3-4% annually, and medication, injecting vaccinations, with growth drivers such as expansion of delivering chemotherapeutic agents and developing markets, ageing populations, monitoring blood pressure for critically increasing need for connected systems ill patients.
Continued growth in the and data analytics, and growth of Vascular Access market is expected alternate site and home-based healthcare as safety regulations drive the use of and innovation.
safety-engineered syringes and catheters Our Infusion Systems products deliver to protect healthcare workers from medication for treating conditions such as needlestick injuries and blood exposure, acute and chronic pain, cancer, pulmonary while reducing hospital-acquired hypertension and Parkinsons disease, infections for patients.
These are growth in hospital and home settings.
We are drivers we are well positioned to serve.
one of the market leaders in ambulatory Our Vital Care products help to manage infusion and have strong positions in the patient airways before, during and after syringe pump market.
The increasing surgery, alleviating breathing difficulties, incidence of chronic conditions, and improving bronchial hygiene and helping the continued advancement of digital maintain body temperature.
Key growth connectivity between infusion devices, drivers for these therapies include the remote monitoring systems and hospital expansion of enhanced recovery after information systems, is expected to drive surgery ERAS and the prevalence of growth in this area over the longer term.
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD.
KEEPING PATIENTS ON THE MOVE CONNECTING HOSPITALS AND PATIENTS Smiths Medicals CADD-Solis wireless infusion pump delivers pain medication to patients while allowing them to remain mobile.
Integrated with PharmGuard Infusion Management software, this innovative platform supports coordinated wireless updates to drug libraries and software, increasing efficiency for our healthcare customers who no longer need to update pumps individually and allows sharing of infusion information with patients electronic medical records.
36 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED SMITHS MEDICAL STRATEGY CONTINUED Our objective is to achieve category leadership in the Infusion Systems segment and in selected Vascular Access and Vital Care segments.
We will build on our reputation for high-quality, innovative solutions, creating a portfolio of leading, effective and valued total solutions and services that drive sustained competitiveness and above-market growth in our chosen segments.
We will achieve this primarily through a pipeline of innovative organic developments, including investment in product development, manufacturing and supply chain optimisation, and efficiency gains in marketing and distribution models.
We will also continue to drive progress in higher-growth regions and new channels to market outside the hospital.
PROGRESS IN FY2018 PRIORITIES FOR FY2019 Over 20 new products launched across Continue the introduction of all three segments organically developed new products, to support core-market Expanded presence in highercategory leadership growth regions Enter higher-growth, Expanded US distribution for nonadjacent categories hospital-based Infusion Systems Expand distribution and sales within non-acute and homecare channels Increase penetration in highergrowth economies Accelerate category scale and competitiveness Continued focus on improving operational efficiency DID YOU KNOW...
The new Neoheel Safety Lancet, used to collect quality blood samples from infants and toddlers, is designed to require fewer heel puncture sites.
The result is less time to complete the test, less bruising and, importantly, less crying.
37 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements FY2018 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 1 Underlying Reported Cash R&D expenditure was 5.8% of FY2018 FY2017 change change sales FY2017: 6.4% with an increase Revenue 885m 951m 2 % 7 % in the income statement R&D costs.
2 Headline operating profit 156m 209m 14 % 26 % Smiths Medical continues to invest in 2 Headline operating margin 17.6% 22.0% 250 bps 440 bps research and development to support Statutory operating profit 152m 286m 47 % long-term, sustainable growth, with the development of innovative, commercially Return on capital employed 13.1% 16.7% 360 bps focused products across the portfolio.
R&D % of revenue 5.8% 6.4% 60 bps Over 20 new products were launched during the year.
These included: PERFORMANCE Revenue from higher-growth regions, TM CADD VIP ambulatory pump for 1 which represents 10% of sales, increased Smiths Medical underlying revenue was homecare and alternate sites 1 10% on an underlying basis, driven by down 2 %.
The divisions performance Upgrades to the PharmGuard server growth in China and India.
was impacted by the transition to a new platform for connecting CADD Solis Notified Body for European Conformity Headline operating profit declined 14 % and Medfusion wireless pumps to registration.
This led to a short-term 1 on an underlying basis.
This included hospital networks suspension of some Smiths Medical adjustment for 16 m restructuring costs EchoGlo needle, an ultrasoundproducts in Europe.
This disruption in the prior year.
In addition, there were guidable needle line for targeted and the loss of two contracts in the US higher R&D costs associated with new 1 delivery of pain management offset good underlying growth that was product launches, and costs of transition medications in nerve block procedures underpinned by a growing contribution to a new Notified Body in Europe.
As a from products launched during the year.
Sol-M, blood-draw venipuncture safety result, headline operating margin was Reported revenue fell 7 %, reflecting devices designed to reduce the risk of 250 bps lower than the prior year on an 37 m of adverse foreign exchange 1 infection and blood contamination underlying basis at 17.6%.
The difference translation and the 11 m impact of the between statutory and headline operating A Closed System Catheter for the divestment of the Wallace product line in Chinese market that prevents blood profit included 3 m of amortisation of November 2016. acquired intangible assets.
exposure and reduces IV set-up time Costs associated with the Notified Body A next generation paediatric ROCE decreased 360 bps to 13.1%, transition and implementation of the new tracheostomy tube line that is MRI-safe reflecting the lower profitability.
EU Medical Device Regulation in 2020 are and DEHP-free Post year end, Smiths Medical made expected to be 10-15m in each of FY2019 further progress on focusing the business and FY2020.
on scalable leading positions in its chosen 1 Underlying revenue was up 4% in Infusion markets, and agreed the sale of its Systems driven by sales of ambulatory sterile water bottling business to Amsino infusion disposables, partially offset by Healthcare USA, Inc. for an enterprise the impact of a contract termination.
The deal is expected to 1 Vascular Access underlying revenue complete in the first half of FY2019.
declined by 4 % as a result of lower peripheral intravenous catheter PIVC 1 sales.
Underlying revenue from Vital Care and Specialty Products was down 6 %, with growth in tracheostomy and general anaesthesia offset by a contract termination.
38 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED SMITHS DETECTION A global leader in the detection and identification of security threats and contraband FY2018 PERFORMANCE Revenue Headline operating profit Headline operating margin 793m 134m 16.9% 1 1 1% 16% COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS REVENUE BY SECTOR REVENUE MIX A global market leader with differentiated technologies leveraged across a broad range of markets Significant R&D capability Operating in several regulated markets requiring product certification Increasing digitisation and aftermarket revenue Air Transportation 68% Original equipment 56% Long-term customer relationships Ports and Borders 7% Aftermarket 44% Defence 4% GROWTH DRIVERS Urban Security 21% Persistent and evolving terror threats Changing security regulations for air cargo and passengers CUSTOMERS PRINCIPAL OPERATING REGIONS Growing urbanisation and the need Almost half of total revenue is We sell our products to around 150 to protect people and assets influenced by c. 100 governments countries and territories, with facilities and their agencies.
Major customers in Germany, France, the UK, Malaysia, Global trade, e-commerce and include airports, cargo and freight and the USA.
passenger numbers forwarders, ports, customs authorities, Equipment replacement cycle, prisons and the armed forces.
typically 710 years Growth of security infrastructure SUPPLIERS COMPETITORS in emerging markets We coordinate manufacturing and We compete with a wide range of purchasing activity globally to achieve companies in each end-use market.
economies of scale and meet stringent Those with the broadest global reach 1 Underlying: modifies headline performance to: adjust quality and delivery standards.
include Nuctech, Rapiscan and prior year to reflect an equivalent period of ownership for divested businesses: include restructuring and L-3 SDS.
39 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements In the ports and borders market, the MARKETS AND TRENDS continued growth of world-wide trade Demand for detection equipment volumes combined with increasing and service is forecast to continue to regulatory standards is expected to grow at mid-single digits per annum drive demand for security screening over the near term, driven by ongoing equipment and digital solutions.
geopolitical unrest and the resulting Powerful technologies are required terrorist and criminal threats, but there is to address a variety of threats as considerable variation by geography and governments become increasingly market segment.
concerned about the smuggling of Almost half of our customers are explosives, weapons and radiological government-funded so budget constraints materials, while continuing to recognise affect market revenues.
Nevertheless, our the strong revenue-generating potential growing installed equipment base creates from contraband detection.
significant opportunities for aftermarket Global demand for chemical warfare service and support and digital revenues agent detection equipment and other through the sale of software upgrades.
threat-specific sensors required by the The heavily regulated air transportation military is forecast to grow steadily in segment is our largest market.
our key NATO-oriented markets but is Rising passenger volumes, together with affected by the highly cyclical nature of the continuing security threats, a strong associated procurement cycles.
replacement cycle and increasing air The urban security market is large but freight volumes are expected to continue fragmented and unregulated.
The major to support market growth and new airport sub-segments of critical infrastructure, investment.
Systems which integrate mass transit and crowded spaces, have networked screening equipment with specific customer needs and challenges.
airport and passenger data are being used Demand in each is growing, driven by to improve the efficiency and effectiveness increasing urbanisation and the response of the security process, and are expected by public and private sector organisations to drive increased demand.
to a wide and ever-increasing range of threats, as they seek to provide better protection for their customers, staff and assets.
MAKING THE WORLD SAFER IMPROVING SECURITY FOR TRAVELLERS Helping reduce traveller frustration and improve throughput at security checks, as well as increasing efficiency for customers, Smiths Detections HI-SCAN 6040 CTiX allows passengers to leave electronics and liquids in their bags.
Rendering 3D images, the CTiX enables operators to examine scanned contents from every angle, giving more accurate data to aid security judgements.
40 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED SMITHS DETECTION STRATEGY CONTINUED We aim to equip our customers with high-integrity solutions that satisfy security needs in the context of an ever-evolving threat and regulatory environment, while meeting their broader commercial and operational requirements.
Through technology-led investment, we also play an increasingly important role in future proofing our customers business through digital transformation.
We continue to drive profitable revenues from aftermarket, digital products and software upgrades to extend machine life and counteract the volatility of prime contracting.
Operational improvements based on quality, waste elimination and reduced lead times are delivering savings, which are reinvested in the development of products and software solutions.
PROGRESS IN FY2018 PRIORITIES FOR FY2019 Integration of Morpho Detection Complete the integration of on track Morpho Detection Maintained strong share of installed Extend presence and capabilities base through the European Standard in Ports and Borders and Urban 3 hold baggage recapitalisation Security market segments Uptake of integrated checkpoint Refresh our go-to-market approach solutions and CORSYS proceeding in key geographies especially Asia as planned Drive R&D investment behind Focused investment in key product key initiatives initiatives: Air Transportation both Deliver further growth in hold baggage and checkpoint: aftermarket and digital revenues software upgrades: remote Maintain focus on continuous diagnostics: and Defence improvement initiatives ECAC, TSA and CAAC certifications for key products Continuous improvement initiatives to implement lean standards, eliminate waste, improve flow and reduce working capital DID YOU KNOW... Our high-energy cargo inspection systems can see through up to 410mm of steel, optimising security checks at ports and border crossings by screening whole trucks, containers and vehicles for threats and illegal contraband.
41 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements FY2018 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 1 Underlying Reported Cash R&D expenditure during the period FY2018 FY2017 change change was 7.4% of sales, or 6.3% excluding Revenue 793m 687m 1% 15% customer funded R&D FY2017: 7.1% and 2 Headline operating profit 134m 103m 16% 30% 6.0% respectively.
Specific highlights 2 Headline operating margin 16.9% 15.0% 240bps 190bps included continued investment in: Statutory operating profit 93m 70m 33% A range of solutions for the Chinese Return on capital employed 12.1% 12.6% 50 bps aviation market R&D % of revenue 7.4% 7.1% 30bps Freight and cargo scanners that can now detect lithium batteries Next generation chemical warfare agent PERFORMANCE the wind down of some major US military 1 programmes.
Urban Security revenues detection devices for the defence market Smiths Detection underlying revenue 1 1 increased 3% on an underlying basis, increased by 1%.
Second half underlying Digital solutions including CORAL, driven by growing sales of hand-held growth of 11% reflected continued strong our advanced predictive analytics devices to detect and identify nucleargrowth in Air Transportation enhanced suite for hold baggage detection threats to the US Department for plus by the phasing of contract deliveries.
Full year growth was partially offset by integrated checkpoint screening and declines in Ports & Borders and Defence.
management platform Revenue from higher-growth regions Overall aftermarket revenue grew by 1% represented 19% of sales, broadly in line 1 on an underlying basis and now accounts 1 with the prior year on an underlying basis.
Good sales growth in India was offset On a reported basis, revenue increased by by the completion of projects in South 15%: this included 124m of incremental Korea, Pakistan and Turkey.
We continue revenue associated with the acquisition of to experience pricing pressure in some Morpho Detection Morpho, and 22 m end-use markets, and in unregulated of adverse foreign exchange translation.
parts of the market from lowerpriced competitors.
Revenue in Air Transportation 1 increased 20% on an underlying basis.
Headline operating profit increased 16% Air Transportation is Smiths Detections 1 on an underlying basis, reflecting volume largest segment and, following the growth and the delivery of cost synergies acquisition of Morpho, now represents associated with the Morpho acquisition.
During the period Headline reported operating margin there was strong growth in EMEA as a 1 increased by 240bps on an underlying result of deliveries associated with the basis to 16.9%, reflecting these cost ECAC Standard 3 Regulation for hold synergies as well as other efficiency baggage.
Major deliveries included savings and the benefit of one-off items projects in the UK, Frankfurt and associated with long-term programmes.
Amsterdam, as well as in the US and The difference between statutory and Saudi Arabia.
Contract wins included: headline operating profit primarily reflects providing Helsinki Airport with eight integration costs associated with the XCT units to upgrade its hold baggage acquisition of Morpho and amortisation system: a $70m contract with the TSA of acquired intangibles.
The integration of for hold baggage systems across the Morpho continues to progress well, with USA, and a contract to sell 151 trace the benefits of the combination supporting detection devices across airports in China.
new contract wins, including a $50m Revenue from Ports & Borders fell 43 % contract with Airports Authority of India.
1 basis following the on an underlying The $30m of annualised cost synergies completion of key programmes in Italy, are now expected to be delivered in full Mali and Kuwait last year.
Contract wins by the end of FY2019, one year ahead included an order for CORSYS by the of schedule.
Underlying revenue in ROCE decreased 50 bps to 12.1% driven Defence decreased by 46 % against last by the impact of the Morpho acquisition.
years strong comparator and reflects 1 Underlying: modifies headline performance to: adjust prior year to reflect an equivalent period of ownership for divested businesses: include restructuring and pension administration costs as headline for both years: and exclude the effects of foreign exchange, acquisitions and supplemental sales for divested businesses.
42 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED SMITHS INTERCONNECT Solutions for high-speed, secure connectivity in demanding applications FY2018 PERFORMANCE Revenue Headline operating profit Headline operating margin 300m 42m 14.1% 1 1 1 % 2 % COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS GROWTH DRIVERS REVENUE BY SECTOR Innovative and technically Increased connectivity supporting differentiated offerings growth in space applications and in commercial aerospace Ultra-high reliability solutions used in demanding applications Growing urbanised population requiring transportation Strong research and and infrastructure engineering capabilities Increasing geopolitical uncertainty Customer intimacy, responsiveness and product customisation Ageing population and rising need for connected healthcare services Global presence, reach and support Defence 40% Semiconductor 17% Medical 11% Space 8% Commercial Aerospace 10% Rail, Industrial, Other 14% CUSTOMERS PRINCIPAL OPERATING REGIONS Our blue-chip customers are prime We have 23 locations in ten countries contractors, key original equipment across North and Central America, manufacturers OEMs and sub-system Europe and Asia.
Examples include to over 50 different countries around Raytheon, Lockheed Martin, BAE the world.
Systems, Huawei, NVIDIA and Biosense Webster.
SUPPLIERS COMPETITORS We cultivate deep supplier Our competitors differ depending on partnerships that enable new the market being served.
They range 1 Underlying: modifies headline performance to: adjust prior year to reflect an equivalent period of ownership technology developments, quality from the large multinationals such as for divested businesses: include restructuring and and efficiency, whilst endeavouring to Amphenol, TE and Molex to the more pension administration costs as headline for both years: and exclude the effects of foreign exchange, have no substantial dependencies on niche and single technology providers.
acquisitions and supplemental sales for divested individual sources.
43 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements In space and commercial aerospace, MARKETS AND TRENDS we provide connectors, components Increasing connectivity and the demand and satellite communications antenna for high-speed and reliable applications solutions for various aircraft and space is the key growth driver across our six key applications.
market remains robust, driven by We provide a range of mission-critical increasing passenger and freight demand, products to the defence market, including particularly in developing regions, and the microwave technology and high-speed need to upgrade aircraft fleets to more connector solutions.
These are deployed efficient models.
in the most extreme environments.
In the rail market, our cable solutions The current economic environment provide communications connectivity and increasing geopolitical uncertainty and our connector solutions are used in creates a platform for growth.
applications such as control, command We provide sophisticated test sockets, and signalling in autonomous train probe heads and cable assembly solutions systems.
Growth is in part driven by for semiconductor testing applications.
increasing demand for sophisticated The semiconductor market has seen digital train systems that improve safety, marked growth this year.
The high security and high data-rate connectivity rate of technology refresh, increased for passengers.
To penetrate the functionality and the greater connectivity growing Chinese market, and specifically requirements of electronic devices are commercial aviation and high speed key drivers.
train applications, we have signed a joint venture agreement with Sichuan Our medical portfolio includes highHuafeng which is a major manufacturer of reliability enhanced signal integrity electronic components in China.
performance connectors for applications requiring higher bandwidth and data rates, including advanced imaging, augmented reality, and surgical robotics.
A growing, ageing population and the rise in chronic diseases continue to drive growth for the global medical market.
WE ARE CREATING THE FUTURE GETTING INTO SPACE FASTER Smiths Interconnect is creating higher reliability products for next generation space applications with their innovative SpaceNXT programme.
Pre-testing and qualifying components for space use reduces lead times and the cost of ownership for customers, and improves the customer experience.
44 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED SMITHS INTERCONNECT STRATEGY CONTINUED We aim to be the supplier of choice to customers that value our broad portfolio of innovative and technically differentiated connectivity solutions.
We focus on the most attractive applications in the defence, semiconductor test, medical, space, commercial aerospace and rail markets.
Our aim is to grow our market positions in all regions and continue to embed our key account partnerships and channels to market.
We want to outperform our competitors and market growth through customerfocus, innovation and service as well as attracting and retaining the best talent available.
We drive competitiveness through R&D and fund our investments through manufacturing efficiency.
PROGRESS IN FY2018 PRIORITIES FOR FY2019 Simplified global structure to Continue to focus on strategic improve communication and agility markets, customers and around customer focus, engineering sales channels and technology Expand key account programme Focused on six attractive core International expansion, end-markets particularly in Asia building on the Further embedded our Key Account launch of the joint venture with Management programme to Sichuan Huafeng facilitate customer focus and gain Increase vitality rate and access to new programmes and introduction of new products technology partnerships Reduce costs through value Further simplified our distribution engineering and scale efficiencies channels to improve service and reliability Increased investment in R&D to drive new technology and products for the future Signed a joint venture agreement with Sichuan Huafeng to strengthen our presence in the commercial aerospace and rail markets in China DID YOU KNOW... Smiths Interconnects microwave components are used on the Mars Rover to compensate for temperature variations from -65C to 150C, enabling it to maintain a consistent signal strength in extreme atmospheric conditions, ensuring long-term, mission-critical success.
45 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements FY2018 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 1 Underlying Reported Cash R&D expenditure was 7.0% of FY2018 FY2017 change change revenue FY2017: 6.7% 6.0% excluding Revenue 300m 419m 1 % 28 % customer funded R&D, FY2017: 5.5%.
2 Headline operating profit 42m 56m 2 % 25 % Product developments included: 2 Headline operating margin 14.1% 13.4% 10 bps 70bps Volta semiconductor solutions for Statutory operating profit 37m 124m 70 % testing integrated chip packages Return on capital employed 11.9% 11.4% 50bps TM SpaceNXT HC Series a range of R&D % of revenue 7.0% 6.7% 30bps high reliability microwave components qualified for next-generation commercial space applications PERFORMANCE Revenue from higher-growth regions, TM 1 which represents 16% of sales, decreased SpaceNXT Q Series a range of Smiths Interconnects underlying revenue 1 flexible cable assemblies qualified by 9 % on an underlying basis as a result was down 1 %, reflecting an improved of order timing in Semiconductor Test.
for space applications trend in the second half, especially in the TM Defence, Semiconductor Test and Rail Eclipta connector a double ended Headline operating profit declined markets.
On a reported basis, revenue edge card contact technology for 1 2 % on an underlying basis to 42m, declined by 28 %, reflecting a 96 m disposable medical applications where an improvement in gross margin impact from the divestments of Power and was offset by investment in sales, Telecoms businesses in January and May marketing and R&D to drive future 2017 respectively, and 19 m of adverse growth.
Headline operating margin was foreign exchange translation.
broadly in line with last year at 14.1%, 1 1 on an underlying basis.
The difference Underlying revenue in the Defence between statutory and headline operating segment grew by 1%, supported by profit primarily reflects adjustments for increased defence spending in the US, amortisation of acquired intangibles and Europe and the Middle East, including the loss on disposal of a trade investment.
programmes such as Eurofighter, Joint Strike Fighter, Gripen and various naval In April 2018, Smiths Interconnect programmes.
In the Medical segment, signed a joint venture agreement with 1 underlying revenue grew by 7% driven Sichuan Huafeng Enterprise Group Co. by strong sales of highly specialist Ltd a major manufacturer of electronic connectors for patient monitoring and components in China.
In the Space segment, portfolio of highly specialised electronic revenue increased 3% driven by higher components and customer relationships connectivity product content within is expected to accelerate penetration and satellite programs.
The Rail segment growth in this important market.
increased by 10% driven by power and ROCE increased 50bps to 11.9% driven data connectors.
Commercial Aerospace by disposal of the Power and Telecoms declined by 20 % due to lower sales of businesses in FY2017.
Semiconductor Test declined by 9 % primarily due to order timing.
46 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED FLEX-TEK Innovative components to heat and move fluids and gases FY2018 PERFORMANCE Revenue Headline operating profit Headline operating margin 354m 67m 18.9% 1 1 10% 10% COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS GROWTH DRIVERS REVENUE BY SECTOR High performance products Steady growth of the US housing construction market Leading capability in design and manufacture Expanding international market for corrugated stainless steel tubing for Market leading residential gas residential housing tubing products Continued increase in large High performance flexible tubing commercial aircraft production for aerospace Growth of medical devices, especially Strong customer relationships for the treatment of sleep apnoea Expansion in higher-growth markets Construction Products 30% Fluid Management 25% Heat Solutions 26% Flexible Solutions 19% CUSTOMERS PRINCIPAL OPERATING REGIONS We serve the US construction industry, The majority of our sales and domestic appliance, aerospace engine operations are in North America, with and airframe manufacturers and other some operations and a growing sales specialist markets.
Large customers mix across Europe and Asia.
include Watsco, Boeing, Airbus, Pratt & Whitney, GE, Samsung, Trane and Carrier.
SUPPLIERS COMPETITORS We source key materials from We compete with leading providers world-class companies selected in each of our product categories.
to provide the quality, service and Examples include Parker-Hannifin and 1 Underlying: modifies headline performance to: adjust prior year to reflect an equivalent period of ownership value needed for mission-critical Eaton for aerospace tubing, Omega for divested businesses: include restructuring and components.
Key materials include Flex for flexible natural gas tubing, and pension administration costs as headline for both years: and exclude the effects of foreign exchange, metal components, electrical controls, Nibe for heating elements.
See the presentation of results note on and plastic resins.
47 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements Our Heat Solutions elements are also MARKETS AND TRENDS used in the manufacturing of medical Our business is structured around four devices, and our Flexible Solutions segments: Heat Solutions: Construction hoses are used in this market too, Products: Fluid Management: and Flexible particularly for respiratory care devices.
Key markets include US Increasing global healthcare spend is residential and commercial construction, driving growth.
global aerospace tubing and hoses, and electrical heating elements.
In the automotive market our hoses are used to deliver fuel and brake Our business performance generally fluid and will play a crucial role in the follows macroeconomic indicators delivery of gas and hydrogen in nextsuch as US GDP, US housing growth, generation vehicles.
healthcare spending and capital goods expenditure.
Population growth drives In aerospace, we are a market-leading residential construction and domestic provider of specialty, high-performance appliance demand in the US, while flexible and rigid fluid management tubing high-growth markets drive commercial assemblies that provide reliable, efficient aerospace demand through increasing delivery of hydraulic fluids and jet fuel for air passenger and freight volumes and commercial and military aircraft globally.
The market for commercial aircraft The diverse nature of our markets remains strong, with a current OEM order reduces our reliance on any specific book of over 14,000 aircraft.
technology, although we are primarily exposed to the US economy.
In heating, we are one of the worlds largest manufacturers of open coil heating elements.
These specialised elements and thermal systems provide consistent temperature controls to improve system efficiency and performance for heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC equipment, tumble dryer, and other bespoke applications.
Growth in Heat Solutions is largely driven by the US housing market, along with an increasing number of specialty heating applications in North America and Asia.
Steady growth in US housing is also driving demand for our leading flexible gas piping and HVAC ducting in our Construction Products segment.
MAKING THE WORLD MORE EFFICIENT BROADENING OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO Flex-Tek acquired the heating element division of Osram Sylvania Inc. in FY2018.
This acquisition has enhanced our exposure to attractive end-markets and geographies, whilst broadening our product portfolio in bespoke heating solutions and improving our technological capabilities.
The integration is complete and synergies have been delivered to plan.
48 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED FLEX-TEK STRATEGY CONTINUED Our strategy is to outperform our chosen markets through technological differentiation, with the need for safer, more energy-efficient solutions providing opportunities for us to establish leadership positions across our segments.
We aim to do this by developing our product portfolio, expanding in our target regions, growing existing market shares and driving operational excellence to increase competitiveness.
We also consider the right strategic bolt-on acquisitions to support growth.
Specific focus areas include growing our share in the US housing market, expanding our international markets for gas tubing and securing positions on next-generation aircraft.
PROGRESS IN FY2018 PRIORITIES FOR FY2019 Integration of the Osram Sylvania Expand through new technologies Inc. heating solutions business into for Heat Solutions applications Heat Solutions Grow Gastite in Europe Expanded Gastite sales in for Construction Construction Products in the UK Launch new FlashShield product Fluid Management progress in Gastite for Construction Products on delivering products for new Win new aerospace platform aerospace platforms for Fluid Management High growth rate for medical tubing Expand revenue in Asia, in Flexible Solutions especially China Further progress in China in Heat Solutions New product launches with the Thermaflex floating core flexible duct DID YOU KNOW... Flex-Teks aerospace heater range used for testing air and inert gas applications in the aviation industry can ramp temperature up and down by 50C per second and heat up to 900C in custom designs, and are helping to develop faster, safer and more fuel efficient aircraft components.
49 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements FY2018 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 1 Underlying Reported R&D expenditure remained consistent FY2018 FY2017 change change at 0.6% of sales FY2017: 0.6%, focused Revenue 354m 338m 10% 4% on market-leading innovative solutions 2 Headline operating profit 67m 65m 10% 2% to meet specific customer needs.
2 Headline operating margin 18.9% 19.3% Flat 40 bps Product developments included: Statutory operating profit 68m 68m Flat Thermaflex floating core HVAC duct Return on capital employed 35.0% 35.8% 80 bps Gastites FlashShield II, the next R&D % of revenue 0.6% 0.6% Flat generation of flexible gas piping which is expected to launch in FY2019 PERFORMANCE Revenue from higher-growth regions, which represents 9% of sales, increased Flex-Tek delivered a strong performance 1 16%, driven by strong sales into China with revenue up 10% on an underlying and India.
basis, with growth in all segments.
On a reported basis revenue increased 1 On an underlying basis headline operating 4%, despite a 17 m adverse foreign profit increased 10% to 67m and headline exchange translation.
operating margin was in line with the prior year at 18.9%.
The difference between Construction revenue grew 5% on an 1 statutory and headline operating profit underlying basis, with both Gastite and is primarily due to a reduction in the Thermaflex benefiting from continued provision for Titeflex Corporation for growth in the US housing market.
Fluid Management revenue was up 11% 1 on an underlying basis, driven by strong In November 2017 the Heat Solutions sales of its aerospace solutions across a business completed the acquisition of range of engine and airframe platforms.
the heating element division of Osram Heat Solutions revenue increased by Sylvania, Inc.
The integration of the 1 17% on an underlying basis, principally business is now largely complete and due to growth in its engineered solutions the benefits of broadening its portfolio as well as increased sales of clothes into faster growing engineered heating dryer elements and heating, ventilation solutions are starting to flow through.
and air conditioning HVAC systems.
1 ROCE decreased 80 bps to 35.0%, driven Flexible Solutions underlying revenue by the acquisition of Osrams heating growth of 10% was driven by increased element business.
demand from the medical sector, partially offset by a decline in the floor care segment.
