154 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note Million Million Insurance premium income 46.5 49.9 Less premiums ceded to reinsurers 29.6 29.6 Net insurance premium income 16.9 20.3 Fee and commission income 4 1,523.7 1,779.8 Investment return 6 4,235.0 7,282.5 Net expense income 2,694.4 9,082.6 Policy claims and benefits Gross amount 54.0 61.1 Reinsurers share 19.6 23.3 Net policyholder claims and benefits incurred 34.4 37.8 Change in insurance contract liabilities Gross amount 36.5 26.5 Reinsurers share 2.3 Net change in insurance contract liabilities 36.5 24.2 Movement in investment contract benefits 6 4,249.2 7,210.9 Expenses 5 1,641.5 1,467.6 Loss profit before tax 3 84.6 342.1 Tax attributable to policyholders returns 7 296.5 156.0 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 211.9 186.1 Total tax credit expense 7 258.1 196.3 Less: tax attributable to policyholders returns 7 296.5 156.0 Tax attributable to shareholders returns 7 38.4 40.3 Profit and total comprehensive income for the year 173.5 145.8 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 0.1 Profit attributable to equity shareholders 173.5 145.9 Profit and total comprehensive income for the year 173.5 145.8 Pence Pence Basic earnings per share 18 33.0 27.8 Diluted earnings per share 18 32.4 27.4 The results relate to continuing operations.
The Notes and information below and on pages 158 to 205 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no statement of comprehensive income is presented for the Company.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 155 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Equity attributable owners of the Parent Shares in NonShare Share trust Retained Misc controlling capital premium reserve earnings reserves Total interests Total equity Note Million Million Million Million Million Million Million Million At 1 January 2017 79.1 164.5 20.9 851.2 2.5 1,076.4 0.8 1,075.6 Profit loss and total comprehensive income expense for the year 145.9 145.9 0.1 145.8 Dividends 18 190.0 190.0 190.0 Issue of share capital 18 0.1 4.1 4.2 4.2 Exercise of options 18 0.2 3.1 3.3 3.3 Consideration paid for own shares 11.3 11.3 11.3 Shares sold during the year 5.5 5.5 Retained earnings credit in respect of share option charges 30.5 30.5 30.5 At 31 December 2017 79.4 171.7 26.7 832.1 2.5 1,059.0 0.9 1,058.1 Profit and total comprehensive income for the year 173.5 173.5 173.5 Dividends 18 242.7 242.7 242.7 Exercise of options 18 2.8 2.8 2.8 Consideration paid for own shares 6.0 6.0 6.0 Shares sold during the year 9.0 9.0 Retained earnings credit in respect of share option charges 33.4 33.4 33.4 At 31 December 2018 79.4 174.5 23.7 787.3 2.5 1,020.0 0.9 1,019.1 The number of shares held in the shares in trust reserve is given in Note 18 Share capital, earnings per share and dividends on page 196.
Miscellaneous reserves represent other non-distributable reserves.
co. uk 156 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION As at As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note Million Million Assets 8 15.6 15.6 Goodwill Deferred acquisition costs 8 558.5 623.0 Intangible assets Purchased value of in-force business 8 24.0 27.2 Computer software 8 1.4 2.4 Property and equipment 9 28.5 26.4 Deferred tax assets 7 147.1 182.7 Reinsurance assets 13 82.8 82.8 Other receivables 11 1,952.3 1,620.0 Income tax assets 9.7 Investments Investment property 10 1,820.7 1,630.9 Equities 10 56,077.9 55,086.9 Fixed income securities 10 21,966.0 17,180.7 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 10 4,756.1 5,903.4 Derivative financial instruments 10 508.8 343.4 Cash and cash equivalents 10 6,877.6 7,280.6 Total assets 94,827.0 90,006.0 Liabilities Borrowings 15 348.6 279.9 Deferred tax liabilities 7 172.9 546.8 Insurance contract liabilities 13 508.1 544.6 Deferred income 8 648.3 646.3 Other provisions 14 22.7 20.0 Other payables 12 1,290.8 1,231.2 Investment contracts benefits 10 67,796.1 64,014.3 Derivative financial instruments 10 517.4 190.3 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 10 22,502.9 21,349.1 Income tax liabilities 7 125.3 Preference shares 0.1 0.1 Total liabilities 93,807.9 88,947.9 Net assets 1,019.1 1,058.1 Shareholders equity Share capital 18 79.4 79.4 Share premium 174.5 171.7 Shares in trust reserve 23.7 26.7 Miscellaneous reserves 2.5 2.5 Retained earnings 787.3 832.1 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company 1,020.0 1,059.0 Non-controlling interests 0.9 0.9 Total equity 1,019.1 1,058.1 Pence Pence Net assets per share 192.5 200.0 The financial statements on pages 154 to 205 were approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2019 and signed on its behalf by: ANDREW CROFT CRAIG GENTLE Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer The Notes and information on pages 158 to 205 form part of these financial statements.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 157 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note Million Million Cash flows from operating activities Loss profit before tax for the year 84.6 342.1 Adjustments for: Amortisation of purchased value of in-force business 8 3.2 3.2 Amortisation of computer software 8 1.1 0.9 Depreciation 9 6.5 5.2 Share-based payment charge 19 34.1 32.7 Interest income 35.1 23.7 Interest expense 6.1 4.9 Increase in provisions 14 2.7 2.9 Exchange rate gains losses 0.3 1.1 Changes in operating assets and liabilities Decrease in deferred acquisition costs 8 64.5 61.8 Increase in investment property 189.8 168.5 Increase in other investments 4,794.4 14,876.2 Increase in reinsurance assets 2.3 Increase in other receivables 330.3 146.0 Decrease increase in insurance contract liabilities 36.5 26.4 Increase in financial liabilities excluding borrowings 4,108.9 10,615.8 Increase decrease in deferred income 8 2.0 1.3 Increase in other payables 57.2 48.8 Increase in net assets attributable to unit holders 1,153.8 4,317.1 Cash generated from operating activities 30.9 244.9 Interest received 35.1 23.7 Interest paid 6.1 4.9 Income taxes paid 213.2 181.3 Net cash generated from operating activities 215.1 82.4 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of property and equipment 9 8.6 8.6 Acquisition of intangible assets 8 0.1 0.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other business combinations, net of cash acquired 4.1 5.0 Net cash used in investing activities 12.8 13.9 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from the issue of share capital 2.8 3.3 Consideration paid for own shares 6.0 11.3 Additional borrowings 15 232.5 100.0 Repayment of borrowings 15 162.2 101.0 Dividends paid 18 242.7 190.0 Net cash used in financing activities 175.6 199.0 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 403.5 130.5 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 10 7,280.6 7,413.1 Exchange gains losses on cash and cash equivalents 0.5 2.0 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 10 6,877.6 7,280.6 The Notes and information on pages 158 to 205 form part of these financial statements.
co. uk 158 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS 1.
Accounting policies St. Jamess Place plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom, and registered in England and Wales.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable when reporting under IFRS.
As at 31 December 2018, the following amended standards, which the Group has adopted as of 1 January 2018, have not had any material impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
New accounting standards which were adopted as of 1 January 2018 are covered in the section below.
IFRS 2 Amendment Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions IAS 40 Amendment Transfers of Investment Property Annual Improvements 2014-2016 Cycle IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration not endorsed at 30 June 2018 II.
ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS The following new accounting standards were adopted as of 1 January 2018: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and associated amendments to various other standards : and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers including subsequent IFRS 15 clarification and associated amendments to various other standards The impact of these new accounting standards on the Groups consolidated financial statements are set out below.
IFRS 9 On 1 January 2018, the Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments as issued in July 2014.
IFRS 9 incorporates new classification and measurement requirements for financial assets and liabilities, the introduction of an expected credit loss impairment model, new hedge accounting requirements and enhanced disclosures in the financial statements.
For the Group, adopting IFRS 9 has resulted in changes toaccounting policies, reclassification of certain financial assets, and changes to the impairment model applied.
In accordance with the transition provisions set out in IFRS 9, comparative figures have not been restated.
a Classification and measurement of financial instruments On the date of initial application of IFRS 9, being 1 January 2018, the following financial assets were reclassified.
There was no material change to the underlying accounting treatment for the reclassified financial assets, and no change in the carrying amount upon reclassification.
No reclassifications were required for financial liabilities.
Measurement category IAS 39 IFRS 9 Renewal income assets Available for sale Fair value through profit or loss Shareholder other receivables Loans and receivables Amortised cost Shareholder cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables Amortised cost The total financial assets recognised under each IFRS 9 and IAS 39 measurement category at 1 January 2018, and reclassifications between categories as required on adoption of IFRS 9, are set out below: Fair value Fair value through other through profit comprehensive Total financial 1 2 or loss FVTPL income FVOCI Amortised cost assets 1 January 2018 Million Million Million Million Shareholder financial assets under IAS 39 1,462.9 71.6 1,078.9 2,613.4 Reclassify renewal income assets 71.6 71.6 Shareholder financial assets under IFRS 9 1,534.5 1,078.9 2,613.4 1 Fair value through other comprehensive income under IFRS 9 was known as available for sale under IAS 39.
2 All financial assets that are classified as amortised cost under IFRS 9 were classified as loans and receivables held at amortised cost under IAS 39.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 159 Reclassification of renewal income assets from available-for-sale The IFRS 9 presumption that default occurs when a loan is more to FVTPL than 90 days past due has been rebutted.
Because of the quality Renewal income assets, which represent the present value of future cash flows on which loans are secured together with the direct cash flows associated with books of business acquired by the Group, control exercised over them from source, management have a are classified as FVTPL under IFRS 9.
This is because the practice of granting flexible ongoing terms to Partners who are contractual cash flows associated with the assets are fees rather investing in their own businesses.
Past evidence supports the than payments of principal and interest.
When contractual cash assertion that the vast majority of loans to Partners who remain in flows are not solely payments of principal and interest, IFRS 9 the Partnership are repaid in full, irrespective of the number of days requires the assets to be classified as FVTPL.
There was no past due the loan may be.
difference between the previous carrying amount under IAS 39 and Write-off the revised carrying amount under IFRS 9, and the reclassification Business loans to Partners are written off where there is no had no impact on the Groups equity.
reasonable expectation of further recovery.
Credit-related write-off Reclassification from loans and receivables to amortised cost experience is considered when determining the Groups definition of Shareholder cash and cash equivalents, and shareholder other underperforming and non-performing.
receivables except for renewal income assets, were reclassified from The provision held against business loans to Partners under the loans and receivables to amortised cost as at 1 January 2018.
The incurred loss model as required by the previous accounting standard, business model for these assets is hold to collect or sell, and the IAS 39, was immaterial.
The provision required by applying the contractual cash flows consist solely of payments of principal and expected loss model from 1 January 2018, as required by IFRS 9, is interest.
There was no difference between the previous carrying also immaterial.
For further information on the provision balance and amount under IAS 39 and the revised carrying amount under IFRS 9, gross business loans to Partners, refer to Note 11 Other Receivables.
and the reclassification had no impact on the Groups equity.
IFRS 15 b Expected loss impairment model The adoption of IFRS 15 had no impact on the Group, as the way that The implementation of IFRS 9 requires a three-stage model to be the Groups revenue from contracts with customers was recognised applied in calculating the expected credit loss provision.
Unless under the previous accounting standard, IAS 18, satisfies the purchased or originated credit-impaired, newly originated assets are requirements of IFRS 15 with no changes required to existing recognised within Stage 1: Performing.
Assets remain in Stage 1 until accounting policies.
This conclusion was reached following a there is a significant increase in credit risk, in which case they move detailed assessment of revenue recognised by the Group in the to Stage 2: Underperforming.
Assets move to Stage 3: Noncontext of the IFRS 15 five-step revenue recognition model, covering performing when there is objective evidence of impairment.
Assets advice charges post-RDR, third-party fee and commission income, are accounted for differently depending on the stage they are wealth management fees, investment management fees, fund tax classified in.
deductions and discretionary management fees.
Further information The Group has applied the three-stage impairment model to the regarding the performance obligations for each of these revenue business loans to Partners portfolio.
Business loans to Partners are streams is set out in Note 1 b Fee and Commission Income.
interest-bearing linked to the Bank of England base rate plus a margin, III.
NEW AND AMENDED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOT either repayable on demand or in line with the repayment plan, and YET ADOPTED secured against the future renewal income streams of the Partner.
As at 31 December 2018, the following new and amended standards, No provision is held against the other financial assets of the Group which are relevant to the Group but have not been applied in the asthese are either classified as FVTPL or are short-term trade financial statements, were in issue but have not yet been adopted: receivables with insignificant risk of credit loss.
IAS 28 Amendment Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Definition of underperforming Ventures In line with the presumption set out in IFRS 9, the Group considers IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments Sale or Contribution of Assets that business loans to Partners experience a significant increase in between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture credit risk, and so move to Stage 2: Underperforming in the expected IFRS 16 Leases credit loss model, when they are more than 30 days past due.
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts Definition of non-performing IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments Business loans to Partners are considered to be non-performing, in Annual Improvements 2015-2017 Cycle the context of the definition prescribed within IFRS 9, if they are in default.
This is defined as a loan to either: The Group is currently assessing the impact that the adoption of the a Partner who has left the St. Jamess Place Partnership: or above standards, amendments and clarifications will have on the a Partner who management considers to be at significant risk of Groups results reported within the financial statements.
Further leaving the Partnership where an orderly settlement of debt is detail regarding the standards that are expected to have the most considered to be in question.
significant impact on the financial statements is given below.
co. uk 160 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D The Group financial statements also comply with the revised 1.
Accounting policies continued Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of IFRS 16 Leases British Insurers in December 2005 as amended in December 2006, IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016 and is mandatory for financial to the extent that it is consistent with IFRS standards.
years commencing on or after 1 January 2019.
It will result in almost all leases being recognised on the statement of financial position, as IV.
BASIS OF PREPARATION the distinction between operating and finance leases is removed for The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing these lessees.
Under the new standard, an asset the right to use the leased financial statements.
item and a financial liability to pay rentals are recognised.
The only The financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, rounded exceptions are for short-term or low-value leases.
The accounting for to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds.
They are prepared on lessors will not significantly change.
The standard will affect the ahistorical cost basis, except for assets classified as investment accounting for the Groups operating leases.
property and assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss.
The Groups lease portfolio at 31 December 2018 will transition to The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019, following the modified retrospective requires management to make judgements, estimates and approach.
The Group will take advantage of the exemptions offered assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported by IFRS 16 for short-term and low-value leases.
Upon transition, the amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The Group will recognise a right-of-use asset of 92.4million and a lease estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical liability of 83.6million, along with a dilapidations provision experience and various other factors that are believed to be recognised under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the Contingent Assets of 8.8million.
The 2019 lease expense for the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and transitioning lease portfolio, comprising the amortisation of the liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual right-of-use asset and interest expense on the lease liability, is results may differ from these estimates.
expected to be 4.4million higher under IFRS 16 than it would have been under the current lease standard, IAS 17.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an The negative impact arises as the lease liability is accounted for ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in using the effective interest method, which means that the interest the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only expense on the lease liability reduces year on year, whereas under that year, or in the year of the revision and future years, if the revision the current lease accounting standard the operating lease rentals are affects both current and future years.
constant throughout the lease term.
As the Group has a number of Judgements made by management in the application of IFRSs that significant leases which are in the early stages of their lease term, the have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates lease expense upon transition to IFRS 16 will be higher than under with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are the current leases standard.
This negative impact will reverse over discussed in Note 2. time.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Note that the lease entered into on 1 January 2019, as referenced in Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies reporting under Note 23 Post Balance Sheet Events, does not form part of the IFRS and the accounting policies set out below have been applied Groups lease portfolio at 31 December 2018 which transitioned to consistently to all years presented in these consolidated financial IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019.
As a result, it is excluded from the statements.
Upon initial recognition, the right-of-use asset for this property was 36.5million, the lease liability was V. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 33.9million and the dilapidations provision recognised under IAS37 a Basis of consolidation Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets was The consolidated financial information incorporates the assets, 1.4million.
liabilities and the results of the Company and of its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are those entities which the Group controls.
Control IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts exists if the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns IFRS 17 incorporates revised principles for the recognition, from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect measurement, presentation and disclosure of insurance contracts.
thosereturns through its power over the entity including unit trusts The Group closed to new insurance business, as defined under in which the Group holds more than 30% of the units.
At 31 December 2018, the Group has information on how control is assessed, and the judgement taken 86.9million of non-unit-linked insurance contract liabilities, which inconsolidating SJP Partner Loans No.
1 Limited, the Groups are substantially reinsured, and 421.2million of unit-linked securitisation entity, is set out in Note 2. insurance contract liabilities.
As a result, the Groups net exposure on Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant this business is not material.
influence but not control, and are accounted for at fair value through The vast majority of the business written by the Life companies the profit or loss.
The Group uses the acquisition method of within the Group is defined as investment, rather than insurance, accounting to account for business combinations and expenses all business under accounting standards.
Investment business is acquisition costs as they are incurred.
The financial statements of outside the scope of IFRS 17: refer to Note 2 for further information subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements on the classification of contracts between insurance and investment from the date that control commences until the date that control business.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with policies adopted by the Group.
Management are currently assessing the impacts of adopting the new standard.
The effective date of the standard is currently 1January 2021, subject to EU endorsement, however in November 2018 the IASB started due process to amend the effective date to 1January 2022.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 161 Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is Third-party fee and commission income is recognised in full on recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes acceptance and inception of the associated policy by the relevant to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be third-party product provider.
The performance obligation is the initial an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IFRS 9 in the advice provided to a client which leads to investment in a third-party consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
product, hence it is appropriate that this revenue stream is recognised on the same basis as initial advice charges.
Where the third-party The treatment of transactions with non-controlling interests depends product provider retains the right to clawback of commission on on whether, as a result of the transaction, the Group alters control anindemnity basis, revenue on sale of these products is recognised ofthe subsidiary.
Changes in the Parents ownership interest in a to the extent that it is highly probable the revenue will not be clawed subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for back.
Separately, a provision is recognised for amounts received asequity transactions: any difference between the amount by which bythe Group which are expected to be clawed back.
the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and Wealth management fees, investment management fees, fund attributed to the owners of the Parent entity.
Where the Group taxdeductions and discretionary fund management fees relate to losescontrol of the subsidiary, at the date when control is lost the services provided on an on-going basis, and revenue is recognised amount of any non-controlling interest in that former subsidiary is on an on-going basis to reflect the nature of the performance derecognised and any investment retained in the former subsidiary obligations being discharged.
isre-measured to its fair value: the gain or loss that is recognised When initial product charges and dealing margins do not relate to a inprofit or loss on the partial disposal of the subsidiary includes distinct performance obligation satisfied at inception of a contract, thegain or loss on the re-measurement of the retained interest.
the income is deferred and amortised over the anticipated period in Intra-group balances, and any income and expenses or unrealised which the services will be provided.
gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions, are c Insurance and reinsurance premiums eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unit-linked insurance contract premiums are recognised as revenue The St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation is not consolidated when the liabilities arising from them are recognised.
All other within the financial information.
This is because the Company does premiums are accounted for when due for payment.
not control the Charitable Foundation in accordance with IFRS 10. d Insurance claims and reinsurance recoveries b Fee and commission income Insurance contracts death claims are accounted for on notification Fee and commission income comprises: ofdeath.
Critical illness claims are accounted for when admitted.
Allother claims and surrenders are accounted for when payment i a dvice charges paid by clients who receive advice alongside their isdue.
Reinsurance recoveries, in respect of insurance claims, investment in a St. Jamess Place or third-party retail investment areaccounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Advice may be provided at initial investment, and on an on-going basis: e Investment return ii third-party fee and commission income, due from third-party Investment return comprises investment income and investment product providers in respect of products sold on their behalf: gains and losses.
Investment income includes dividends, interest andrental income from investment properties under operating iii wealth management fees paid by clients for the ongoing leases.
Dividends are accrued on an ex-dividend basis, and rental administration of their investment: income is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income iv investment management fees paid by clients for all aspects ona straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest, which ofinvestment management, including fees taken by the Group isgenerated on assets classified as fair value through profit or loss, topay third-party investment advisers: is accounted for using the effective interest method.
v fund tax deductions, which are fees charged to clients to match f Expenses the policyholder tax expense: i Payments to Partners vi discretionary fund management fees generated through the Payments to Partners comprises initial commission and initial advice services provided by our DFM business: and fees IAF paid for initial advice, at policy outset and within an initial vii the unwinding of income that has been deferred.
This relates period for regular contribution, renewal commission and renewal toinitial product charges and dealing margins from unit trusts.
advice fees payable on regular contributions and fund fee commission or ongoing advice fee OAF based on funds under The provision of initial advice is a distinct performance obligation.
Initial and renewal commission and advice fees are Asa result, initial advice charges are recognised in full on acceptance recognised in line with the associated premium income, but initial and inception of the associated policy by the relevant product provider, commission on insurance and investment contracts may be deferred which may be a Group company or a third party.
On-going advice as set out in accounting policy k. Fund fee commission and ongoing charges are recognised as revenue on an on-going basis, consistent advice fee are recognised on an accruals basis.
with the nature of the performance obligation being discharged, rather than at a single point in time.
ii Operating lease payments Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards ofownership is retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in thestatement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as an integral part of the total lease expense and are spread over the life of the lease.
co. uk 162 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D i Investment contract deposits and withdrawals 1.
Accounting policies continued Investment contract payments in and out are not included in the g Income taxes statement of comprehensive income but are reported as deposits to Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and or deductions from investment contract benefits in the statement of deferred tax payable by the Group in respect of policyholders and financial position.
The movement in investment contract benefits shareholders.
Income tax is recognised in the statement of within the statement of comprehensive income principally represents comprehensive income except to the extent that it relates to items the investment return credited to policyholders.
recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Tax liabilities are recognised when it is considered probable that Explicit advice charges are payable to St. Jamess Place Wealth there will be a future outflow of funds to a taxing authority and are Management plc by most clients who wish to receive advice with measured using a best-estimate approach.
their investment in a St. Jamess Place retail investment product.
St. Jamess Place facilitates the payment of these charges for the i Current tax client, by arranging withdrawals from the clients policy, which are Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the then recognised as income to St. Jamess Place Wealth year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Management plc.
A proportion of the charge is then paid to the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of St. Jamess Place adviser who provides the advice see f i previous years.
ii Deferred tax j Goodwill Deferred tax is provided using the liability method, providing for Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Where the fair value of the taxation purposes.
The following differences are not provided for: the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired entity is initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting greater than the cost of acquisition, the excess is recognised nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and is reviewed at least the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying annually for impairment or when circumstances or events indicate amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or there may be uncertainty over this value.
If an impairment is substantively enacted at the reporting date.
identified, the carrying value of the goodwill is written down immediately through the statement of comprehensive income and is A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is not subsequently reversed.
At the date of disposal of a subsidiary, the probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the carrying value of attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent the profit or loss on disposal except where it has been written off that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be directly to reserves in the past.
k Deferred acquisition costs Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally For insurance contracts, acquisition costs comprise direct costs enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax such as initial commission and the indirect costs of obtaining and liabilities, and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to processing new business.
Acquisition costs which are incurred income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the during a financial year, net of any impairment losses, are deferred taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention and then amortised to expenses in the statement of comprehensive to settle the balances on a net basis.
income on a straight-line basis over the period during which the costs are expected to be recoverable and in accordance with the iii Policyholder and shareholder tax incidence of future related margins.
The total income tax charge is a separate adjustment within the statement of comprehensive income based on the movement in For investment contracts, only directly attributable acquisition costs, current and deferred income taxes in respect of income, gains and which vary with and are related to securing new contracts and expenses.
The total charge reflects tax incurred on behalf of renewing existing contracts, are deferred, and only to the extent that policyholders as well as shareholders, and so it is useful to be able to they are recoverable out of future revenue.
These deferred identify these separately.
acquisition costs, which represent the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services, net of any Shareholder tax is estimated by making an assessment of the impairment losses, are amortised to expenses in the statement of effective rate of tax that is applicable to the shareholders on the comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the expected profits attributable to shareholders.
This is calculated by applying the lifetime of the Groups investment contracts.
All other costs are appropriate effective corporate tax rates to the shareholder profits.
recognised as expenses when incurred.
The remainder of the tax charge represents tax on policyholders investment returns.
This calculation method is consistent with the The periods over which costs are expected to be recoverable are legislation relating to the calculation of tax on shareholder profits.
asfollows: h Dividends paid Insurance contracts: 6 years Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised Investment contracts: 1214 years in the period in which the dividends are declared, that is when they are appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
The final dividend for the financial year is disclosed but unpaid and awaiting approval by the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 163 l Intangible assets Other receivables include prepayments, which are recognised where i Purchased value of in-force business services are paid for in advance of being received.
The prepayment The purchased value of in-force business in respect of insurance reduces, and an expense is recognised in the statement of business represents the present value of profits that are expected to comprehensive income, as the service is received.
emerge from insurance business acquired on business combinations.
Commission and advice fees in respect of some insurance and It is calculated at the time of acquisition using best-estimate actuarial investment business may be paid to Partners in advance on renewal assumptions for interest, mortality, persistency and expenses, net premiums and accelerated by up to five years.
The unearned element ofany impairment losses, and it is amortised on a straight-line basis of this accelerated remuneration is recognised as advanced payments as profits emerge over the anticipated lives of the related contracts to Partners within other receivables.
Should the contributions reduce inthe portfolio.
An intangible asset is also recognised in respect of or stop within the initial period, any unearned amount is recovered.
acquired investment management contracts, representing the fair value of contractual rights acquired under those contracts.
The p Investment property purchased value of in-force business is expressed as a gross Investment properties, which are all held within the unit-linked funds, figurein the statement of financial position, with the associated tax are properties which are held to earn rental income and or for capital included within deferred tax liabilities.
It is assessed for impairment appreciation.
They are stated at fair value.
An external, independent at each reporting date and any movement is charged to the valuer, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification statement of comprehensive income.
and recent experience in the location and category of property being valued, values the portfolio every month.
The estimated useful economic life of acquired in-force business is 20 years.
The fair values are based on open market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of ii Computer software valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had and any recognised impairment loss.
The carrying value is reviewed each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income within investment income.
Computer software is recognised as an intangible asset during Rental return from investment property is accounted for as described development with amortisation commencing when the software in accounting policy e. isoperational.
Amortisation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to expenses on a straight-line basis over q Equities, fixed income securities and investment in collective fouryears, being the estimated useful life of the intangible asset.
investment schemes These financial assets are initially and subsequently recognised at m Property and equipment fair value through profit or loss, with all gains and losses recognised Items of property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated within investment income in the statement of comprehensive depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset income.
The vast majority of these financial assets are quoted, and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working andso the fair value is based on the value within the bid-ask spread condition for its intended use.
Land is shown at fair value, based on that is most representative of fair value.
If the market for a financial valuations by external independent valuers.
The carrying value is asset is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances techniques such as recent arms length transactions, reference to indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable and any similar listed investments, discounted cash flow models or option assets that may have suffered impairment are reviewed for possible pricing models.
reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Subsequent measurement of these financial assets at fair value Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income through profit or loss FVTPL is required by IFRS 9 for debt to expenses on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives instruments for which the objectives of the Groups business model ofthe property and equipment, which are as follows: are not met by either holding the instrument to collect contractual Fixtures, fittings and office equipment: 510 years cash flows or selling the instruments, or where the contractual Computer equipment: 3 years termsof the instrument do not give rise to cash flows which are solely payments of principal and interest.
Where both the business n Reinsurance assets model and solely payments of principal and interest tests are met, Reinsurance assets represent amounts recoverable from reinsurers management have made an irrevocable decision to designate the in respect of non-unit-linked insurance contract liabilities, net of any debt instruments at FVTPL as doing so aligns the measurement future reinsurance premiums.
ofthe financial assets with the measurement of their associated unit-linked liabilities.
o Other receivables Other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and Management have not made the irrevocable election to present subsequently held at amortised cost less impairment losses, except changes in the fair value of equity instruments in other comprehensive for renewal income assets which are classified as fair value through income, and so all equity instruments are also designated at FVTPL.
profit and loss and are initially, and subsequently, recognised at fair value.
The value of any impairment recognised is the difference The Group recognises purchases and sales of investments on between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the tradedate.
The costs associated with investment transactions are estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective included within expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.
See accounting policy ad for information relating to the treatment of impaired amounts.
co. uk 164 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 1.
Accounting policies continued r Derivative financial instruments v Deferred income The Group uses derivative financial instruments within some The initial margin on financial instruments including dealing margins unit-linked funds, with each contract initially and subsequently from unit trusts is deferred and recognised on a straight-line basis recognised at fair value, based on observable market prices.
All over the expected lifetime of the financial instrument, which is changes in value are recognised within investment income in between six to 14 years.
w Net asset value attributable to unit holders s Cash and cash equivalents The Group consolidates unit trusts in which it holds more than 30% Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at of the units and exercises control.
The third-party interests in these callwith banks, other short-term highly liquid investments, and bank unit trusts are termed the net asset value attributable to unit holders overdrafts to the extent that they are an integral part of the Groups and are presented in the statement of financial position.
classified as FVTPL, hence are initially and subsequently measured at fair value.
The decision by the Group to designate the net asset Cash and cash equivalents held within unit-linked and unit trust funds value attributable to unit holds as FVTPL reflects the fact that the are classified at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL, as underlying investment portfolios are recognised at FVTPL.
management have made an irrevocable decision to designate them as such in order to align the measurement of these financial assets Income attributable to the third-party interests is accounted for with the measurement of their associated unit-linked liabilities.
within investment return, offset by a corresponding change in Therefore, these cash and cash equivalents are initially and investment contract benefits.
subsequently recognised at FVTPL, with gains and losses x Provisions recognised within investment return in the statement of Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or comprehensive income.
constructive obligation as a result of past events such that it is All other cash and cash equivalents are classified as amortised cost.
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to They are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less obligation can be made.
Provisions are measured as the discounted impairment losses.
expected future cash flows taking account of the risks and uncertainties associated with the specific liability where appropriate.
t Insurance contract liabilities Insurance contract liability provisions are determined following an y Borrowings annual actuarial investigation of the long-term fund in accordance Borrowings are measured initially at fair value, net of directly with regulatory requirements.
The provisions are calculated on the attributable transaction costs, and subsequently stated at amortised basis of current information and using the gross premium valuation cost.
The difference between the proceeds and the redemption value method.
The Groups accounting policies for insurance contracts is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income over the meet the minimum specified requirements for liability adequacy borrowing period on an effective interest rate basis.
Borrowings are testing under IFRS 4, as they consider current estimates of all recognised on drawdown and derecognised on repayment.
contractual cash flows, and of related cash flow such as claims z Other payables handling costs.
Other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently Insurance contract liabilities can never be definitive as to their timing measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
nor the amount of claims and are, therefore, subject to subsequent aa Employee benefits reassessment on a regular basis.
i Pension obligations u Investment contract benefits The Group operates a defined contribution personal pension plan All of the Groups investment contracts are unit-linked.
Contributions to this plan are recognised as an liabilities are measured at fair value by reference to the value of the expense in the statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
underlying net asset value of the Groups unitised investment funds, TheGroup has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further determined on a bid value, at the reporting date.
An allowance for contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all deductions due to or from the Group in respect of policyholder employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current taxon capital gains and losses in the life assurance funds is also and prior periods.
reflected in the measurement of unit-linked liabilities.
Investment ii Share-based payments contract benefits are recognised when units are first allocated to The Group operates a number of share-based payment plans for thepolicyholder: they are fide-recognised when units allocated to employees, Partners and advisers.
The fair value of share-based thepolicyholder have been cancelled.
payment awards granted is recognised as an expense spread over The decision by the Group to designate its unit-linked liabilities as the vesting period of the instrument which accords with the period fairvalue through profit and loss FVTPL reflects the fact that the for which related services are provided, with a corresponding matching investment portfolio, which underpins the unit-linked increase in equity in the case of equity-settled plans and the liabilities, is recognised at FVTPL.
recognition of a liability for cash-settled plans.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 165 The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the ii Financial assets fair value of the awards, measured using standard option pricing Financial assets held at amortised cost are impaired using an models as the fair value of the services provided by employees, expected credit loss model.
The model splits financial assets into Partners and advisers cannot be reliably measured.
For equitythose which are performing, underperforming and non-performing settled plans, the fair value is determined at grant date and not based on changes in credit quality since initial recognition.
For cash-settled plans, the fair value recognition financial assets are considered to be performing.
They isremeasured at each reporting date and the date of settlement, become underperforming where there has been a significant withany changes in fair value recognised in the statement of increase in credit risk since initial recognition, and non-performing comprehensive income for the period.
when there is objective evidence of impairment.
12 months of expected credit losses are recognised within Expenses in the At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimate of the number statement of comprehensive income and netted against the financial of awards that are expected to vest and it recognises the impact asset in the statement of financial position for all performing ofthe revision of original estimates, if any, in the statement of financial assets, with lifetime expected credit losses recognised comprehensive income, such that the amount recognised for forunderperforming and non-performing financial assets.
employee, Partner and adviser services are based on the number ofawards that actually vest.
The charge to the statement of Expected credit losses are based on the historic levels of loss comprehensive income is not revised for any changes in market experienced for the relevant financial assets, with due consideration vesting conditions.
ab Share capital ae Foreign currency translation Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where any Group entity The Groups presentation and the Companys functional currency is purchases the Companys equity share capital shares held in trust, pounds Sterling.
the consideration paid is deducted from equity attributable to Foreign currency transactions are translated into Sterling using the shareholders, as disclosed in the Shares in Trust reserve.
Where exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Monetary suchshares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated of, any consideration received is included in equity attributable to using the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date and the gain or shareholders, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction losses on translation are recognised in the statement of costs and the related income tax effects.
ac Product classification Non-monetary assets and liabilities which are held at historical cost The Groups products are classified for accounting purposes as are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the date of either insurance contracts or investment contracts.
transaction: those held at fair value are translated using exchange i Insurance contracts rates ruling at the date on which the fair value was determined.
Insurance contracts are contracts that transfer significant insurance af Segment reporting risk.
The Groups product range includes a variety of term assurance Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the and whole-of-life protection contracts involving significant insurance internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
chief operating decision maker, responsible for allocating resources ii Investment contracts and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been Contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are treated identified as the Executive Board.
The majority of the business written by the ag Current and non-current disclosure Group is unit-linked investment business and is classified as Assets which are expected to be recovered or settled no more than investment contracts.
12 months after the reporting date are disclosed as current within the ad Impairment Notes to the financial statements.
Those expected to be recovered or i Non-financial assets settled more than 12 months after the reporting date are disclosed Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment as non-current.
when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty Liabilities which are expected or due to be settled no more than over this value.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by 12months after the reporting date are disclosed as current within which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
theNotes to the financial statements.
Those liabilities which are The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less expected or due to be settled more than 12 months after the costs to sell and value in use.
Refer to accounting policy j for the reporting date are disclosed as non-current.
Groups impairment policy for goodwill.
ah Alternative performance measures Within the financial statements, a number of alternative performance measures APMs are disclosed.
An APM is a measure of financial performance, financial position or cash flows which is not defined bythe relevant financial reporting framework, which for the Group isInternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted bythe European Union.
APMs are used to provide greater insight intothe performance of the Group and the way it is managed by theDirectors.
The Glossary of Alternative Performance Measures onpages 227 to 229 defines each APM, explains why it is used and, where applicable, explains how the measure can be reconciled to theIFRS financial statements.
co. uk 166 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D investing in their own businesses.
Critical accounting estimates and assertion that the vast majority of loans to Partners who remain in judgements in applying accounting the Partnership are repaid in full, irrespective of the number of days past due the loan may be.
policies JUDGEMENTS ESTIMATES The primary areas in which the Group has applied judgement are Critical accounting estimates are those which give rise to a asfollows: significant risk of material adjustment to the balances recognised in the financial statements within the next 12 months.
The Groups Classification of contracts between insurance and investment critical accounting estimates are: business determining the value of insurance contract liabilities: and Contracts with a significant degree of insurance risk are treated as insurance contracts.
All other contracts are treated as investment determining the fair value of investment property.
It is this classification that management considers to Estimates are also applied in other assets of the financial statements, beacritical judgement: however, due to the carrying value of the including determining the value of deferred tax assets, investment insurance contract liabilities within the statement of financial contract benefits, the operational readiness prepayment and other position, management does not consider insurance business to provisions.
Measurement of insurance contract liabilities Consolidation The assumptions used in the calculation of insurance contract Entities are consolidated within the Group financial statements if they liabilities that have an effect on the statement of comprehensive are controlled by the Group.
Control exists if the Group is exposed to, income of the Group are: or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity the lapse assumption, which is set prudently based on an and the Group has the ability to affect those returns through its investigation of experience during the year: power over the entity.
Significant judgement can be involved in determining whether the Group controls an entity, such as in the the level of expenses, which is based on actual expenses in 2018 caseof the structured entity set up for the Groups securitisation and expected rates in 2019 and the long-term: transaction, SJP Partner Loans No.
1 Limited, and for the Groups the mortality and morbidity rates, which are based on the results of unittrusts.
an investigation of experience during the year: and A structured entity is one that has been designed so that voting or the assumed rate of investment return, which is based on current similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls gilt yields.
As a result, factors such as whether a Group entity is able Greater detail on the assumptions applied, and sensitivity analysis, to direct the relevant activities of the entity and the extent to which isshown in Note 13. the Group is exposed to variability of returns are considered.
In the case of SJP Partner Loans No.
1 Limited, it was determined that the Whilst the measurement of insurance contract liabilities is Group does control the entity and hence it is consolidated.
This is considered to be a critical accounting estimate for the Group, the due to an entity in the Group holding the junior tranche of loan notes, vast majority of non-unit-linked insurance business written is hence being subject to variability of returns, and the same entity reinsured.
As a result, the impact of a change in estimate in being able to direct the relevant activities of the structured entity determining the value of insurance contract liabilities would be through its role of servicer to the securitised portfolio.
mitigated to a significant degree by the impact of the change in estimate in determining the value of reinsurance assets.
Unit trusts are consolidated when the Group holds more than 30% of the units in that unit trust.
This is the threshold at which the Group is Determining the fair value of investment property considered to achieve control, having regard for factors such as: In accordance with IAS 40, the Group initially recognises investment the scope of decision making authority held by St. Jamess Place properties at cost, and subsequently re-measures its portfolio to fair Unit Trust Limited, the unit trust manager: value in the statement of financial position.
Fair value is determined monthly by professional external valuers.
It is based on anticipated rights held by external parties to remove the unit trust manager: market values for the properties in accordance with the guidance and issued by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, being the the Groups exposure to variable returns through its holdings in the estimated amount that would be received from a sale of the assets unit trusts and the unit trust managers remuneration.
inan orderly transaction between market participants.
Determining non-performing business loans to Partners The valuation of investment property is inherently subjective as it As set out on page 159, business loans to Partners are considered to requires, among other factors, assumptions to be made regarding be non-performing, in the context of the definition prescribed within the ability of existing tenants to meet their rental obligations over the IFRS 9, if they are in default.
This is defined as a loan to either: entire life of their leases, the estimation of the expected rental income a Partner who has left the St. Jamess Place Partnership: or into the future, an assessment of a propertys potential to remain as an attractive technical configuration to existing and prospective a Partner who management considers to be at significant risk of tenants in a changing market and a judgement to be reached on the leaving the Partnership where an orderly settlement of debt is attractiveness of a building, its location and the surrounding considered to be in question.
As such, investment properties are classified as Level 3 The IFRS 9 presumption that default occurs when a loan is more in the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy because they are valued using than 90 days past due has been rebutted.
Because of the quality techniques which are not based on observable inputs.
Further details ofcash flows on which loans are secured together with the direct of the valuation of investment properties, including sensitivity control exercised over them from source, management have a analysis, is set out in Note 16. practice of granting flexible ongoing terms to Partners that are ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 167 3.
Segment reporting IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified, on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Board, in order to allocate resources to each segment and assess its performance.
The Groups only reportable segment under IFRS 8 is a wealth management business which is a  business providing support to our clients through the provision of financial advice and assistance through our Partner network, and financial solutions including but not limited to wealth management products manufactured in the Group, such as insurance bonds, pensions, unit trust and ISA investments, and a DFM service.
Separate geographical segmental information is not presented since the Group does not segment its business geographically.
Most of its customers are based in the United Kingdom, as is management of the assets.
In particular, the operation based in south-east Asia is not yet sufficiently material for separate consideration.
SEGMENT REVENUE Revenue received from fee and commission income is set out in Note 4, which details the different types of revenue received from our wealth management business.
SEGMENT PROFIT Two separate measures of profit are monitored on a monthly basis by the Board.
These are the post-tax Underlying cash result and pre-tax European Embedded Value EEV.
Underlying cash result The measure of cash profit monitored on a monthly basis by the Board is the post-tax Underlying cash result.
This reflects emergence of cash available for paying a dividend during the year.
Underlying cash is based on the cashflows within the IFRS results, but with no allowance for intangibles, principally DAC, DIR, PVIF, goodwill and deferred tax, or short-term costs associated with the back-office infrastructure project.
Asthe cost associated with non-cash-settled share options is reflected in changes in shareholder equity, they are also not included in the Underlying cash result.
More detail is provided on pages 33 to 40 of the Financial Review.
The Cash result should not be confused with the IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows which is prepared in accordance with IAS 7.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Underlying cash result after tax 309.0 281.2 Non-cash-settled share-based payments 33.4 30.5 Deferred tax impacts 31.8 15.0 Back-office infrastructure 35.8 21.7 Impact in the year of DAC DIR PVIF 54.4 48.1 Other 19.9 20.1 IFRS profit after tax 173.5 145.8 Shareholder tax 38.4 40.3 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 211.9 186.1 Tax attributable to policyholder returns 296.5 156.0 IFRS loss profit before tax 84.6 342.1 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
co. uk 168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 3.
Segment reporting continued EEV operating profit EEV operating profit is monitored on a monthly basis by the Board.
The components of the EEV operating profit are included in more detail in the Financial Review section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million EEV operating profit before tax 1,002.0 918.5 Investment return variance 460.9 340.8 Economic assumption changes 15.1 29.8 EEV profit before tax 526.0 1,289.1 Adjustments to IFRS basis Deduct: amortisation of purchased value of in-force 3.2 3.2 Movement of balance sheet life value of in-force net of tax 243.7 586.2 Movement of balance sheet unit trust and DFM value of in-force net of tax 16.5 325.4 Tax of movement in value of in-force 50.7 188.2 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 211.9 186.1 Tax attributable to policyholder returns 296.5 156.0 IFRS loss profit before tax 84.6 342.1 The movement in life, unit trust and DFM value of in-force is the difference between the opening and closing discounted value of the profits that will emerge from the in-force book over time, after adjusting for DAC and DIR impacts which are already included under IFRS.
SEGMENT ASSETS Funds Under Management FUM FUM, as reported in Section 1 of the Financial Review on page 31, is the measure of segment assets which is monitored on a monthly basis bythe Board.
31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Investment 27,620.0 28,310.0 Pension 40,720.0 36,150.0 UT ISA and DFM 27,210.0 26,290.0 Total FUM 95,550.0 90,750.0 Exclude client and third-party holdings in non-consolidated unit trusts and DFM 4,701.6 4,882.5 Other 666.9 296.7 Gross assets held to cover unit liabilities 91,515.3 86,164.2 IFRS intangible assets see page 38 adjustment 2 including goodwill, DAC, PVIF, reinsurance and deferred tax 720.9 811.3 Shareholder gross assets see page 38 2,590.8 3,030.5 Total assets 94,827.0 90,006.0 ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 169 4.
Fee and commission income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Advice charges post-RDR 743.2 656.5 Third-party fee and commission income 113.0 114.3 Wealth management fees 721.9 638.3 Investment management fees 85.7 62.4 Fund tax deductions 296.5 156.2 Discretionary fund management fees 13.8 9.4 Fee and commission income before DIR amortisation 1,381.1 1,637.1 Amortisation of DIR 142.6 142.7 Total fee and commission income 1,523.7 1,779.8 Fund tax deductions represent amounts deducted from, or credited to, the underlying funds to match policyholder tax charges or credit.
This arises because the UK tax regime includes a policyholder tax element within the Groups tax arrangements.
The amount of tax attributable to policyholders reflects investment return in the underlying funds.
During 2018, market falls led to a significant policyholder tax credit, hence a credit of 296.5million to the funds.
In contrast, during 2017 market gains led to a significant policyholder tax charge, hence 156.2million of deductions were made from the funds.
Expenses The following items are included within the expenses disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Payments to Partners 781.9 709.0 Payments under operating leases 20.8 17.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates For the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1 For other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries excluding unit trusts 0.7 0.6 Audit of the Companys unit trusts 0.3 0.3 Audit-related assurance services 0.8 0.8 Other assurance services 0.1 Total fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates 2.0 1.8 Employee costs Wages and salaries 140.3 138.8 Social security costs 16.2 16.5 Other pension costs 11.5 9.5 Cost of employee share awards and options 16.4 19.1 Total employee costs 184.4 183.9 Average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year 2,302 2,014 All pension costs related to defined contribution schemes and cash supplements in lieu of contributions to defined contribution pension schemes.
At 31 December 2018, the number of Directors to whom retirement benefits are accruing, including those receiving a cash supplement in lieu of contributions to defined contribution pension schemes is 4 2017: 4, including the highest paid Director.
Retirement benefits are accruing in defined contribution pension schemes for one 2017: zero Director at the year end.
The above information includes Directors remuneration.
The aggregate emoluments of the highest paid Director were 0.8million 2017:0.9million : cash supplement in lieu of their defined contribution pension scheme was 0.1million 2017:0.1million : they exercised 61,837 share options during 2018 2017: nil : and 26,955 shares were released to them in respect of the deferred bonus scheme 2017: 33,924.
Full details of the Directors remuneration, share options, pension entitlements and interests in shares are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 120 to 137.
The aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year was 2.2million 2017:2.6million.
co. uk 170 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 6.
Investment return and movement in investment contract benefits The majority of the business written by the Group is unit-linked investment business, and so investment contract benefits are measured by reference to the underlying net asset value of the Groups unitised investment funds.
As a result, investment return on the unitised investment funds and the movement in investment contract benefits are linked.
INVESTMENT RETURN Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Investment return on net assets held to cover unit liabilities: Rental income 90.9 82.3 Loss gain on revaluation of investment properties 22.8 79.2 Net investment return on financial instruments classified as fair value through profit and loss 3,046.0 5,545.1 2,977.9 5,706.6 Attributable to unit-linked insurance contract liabilities 6.6 43.5 Attributable to unit-linked investment contract benefits 2,984.5 5,663.1 2,977.9 5,706.6 Income attributable to third-party holdings in unit trusts 1,264.7 1,547.8 4,242.6 7,254.4 Investment return on shareholder assets: 1 Net investment return on financial instruments classified as fair value through profit and loss 4.5 19.5 Interest income on financial instruments held at amortised cost 12.1 8.6 7.6 28.1 Total investment return 4,235.0 7,282.5 1 The net investment return on financial instruments classified as fair value through profit and loss in 2017 includes a 1.8 million loss which was disclosed as netinvestment return on financial instruments classified as available for sale in prior year.
The reclassification has occurred due to the adoption of IFRS 9 on 1January 2018.
Included in the net investment return on financial instruments classified as fair value through profit and loss within investment return on net assets held to cover unit liabilities is dividend income of 987.7million 2017:825.6million.
MOVEMENT IN INVESTMENT CONTRACT BENEFITS 2018 2017 Million Million Balance at 1 January 64,014.3 53,307.1 Deposits 11,307.4 9,711.4 Withdrawals 4,168.5 3,924.5 Movement in unit-linked investment contract benefits 2,984.5 5,663.1 Less: fees and other adjustments for reassessment of unit liability 372.6 742.8 Balance at 31 December 67,796.1 64,014.3 Current 4,188.2 3,840.9 Non-current 63,607.9 60,173.4 67,796.1 64,014.3 Movement in unit liabilities Unit-linked investment contract benefits 2,984.5 5,663.1 Third-party unit trust holdings 1,264.7 1,547.8 Movement in investment contract benefits in consolidated statement of comprehensive income 4,249.2 7,210.9 See accounting policy ag for further information on the current and non-current disclosure.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 171 7.
Income and deferred taxes TAX FOR THE YEAR Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Current tax UK corporation tax Current year charge 79.1 245.7 Adjustment in respect of prior year 2.7 3.1 Overseas taxes Current year charge 4.9 6.8 Adjustment in respect of prior year 0.1 0.1 81.4 249.5 Deferred tax Unrealised capital losses in unit-linked funds 359.2 55.6 Unrelieved expenses Additional expenses recognised in the year 11.1 12.7 Utilisation in the year 15.0 17.2 Capital losses Revaluation in the year 1.8 Utilisation in the year 29.7 12.1 Adjustment in respect of prior year 2.4 0.9 DAC, DIR and PVIF 11.5 12.7 Other items 3.4 3.5 Overseas taxes on losses 0.5 0.1 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.9 1.2 339.5 53.2 Total tax credit charge for the year 258.1 196.3 Attributable to: policyholders 296.5 156.0 shareholders 38.4 40.3 258.1 196.3 The prior year adjustment in current tax above represents a charge of 0.9million in respect of policyholder tax 2017:3.8million credit and acredit of 3.5million in respect of shareholder tax 2017:0.8million charge.
Included within the deferred tax on other items is a credit of 0.8million 2017:2.0million charge relating to share-based payments.
Detailsof share-based payments are disclosed in Note 19 Share-based Payments.
In arriving at the profit before tax attributable to shareholders return, it is necessary to estimate the analysis of the total tax charge between that payable in respect of policyholders and that payable by shareholders.
Shareholder tax is estimated by making an assessment of the effective rate of tax that is applicable to the shareholders on the profits attributable to shareholders.
This is calculated by applying the appropriate effective corporate tax rates to the shareholder profits.
This calculation method is consistent with the legislation relating to the calculation of tax on shareholder profits.
co. uk 172 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 7.
Income and deferred taxes continued TAX PAID IN THE YEAR Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Current tax charge for the year 81.4 249.5 Refunds due to be received payments to be made in future years in respect of current year 9.7 125.3 Payments made in current year in respect of prior years 124.7 71.3 Other 0.7 1.1 Tax paid 216.5 196.6 Tax paid can be analysed as: Taxes paid in UK 211.5 188.9 Taxes paid in overseas jurisdictions 1.5 2.7 Withholding taxes suffered on investment income received 3.5 5.0 Tax paid 216.5 196.6 MOVEMENT IN NET DEFERRED TAX BALANCE 2018 2017 Million Million Deferred tax asset 182.7 199.9 Deferred tax liability 546.8 614.8 Net deferred tax balance at 1 January 364.1 414.9 Credit through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 339.5 53.2 Arising on acquisitions during the year 1.2 2.4 Deferred tax asset 147.1 182.7 Deferred tax liability 172.9 546.8 Balance at 31 December 25.8 364.1 RECONCILIATION OF TAX CHARGE TO EXPECTED TAX Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Loss profit before tax 84.6 342.1 1 Tax attributable to policyholders returns 296.5 156.0 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders return 211.9 186.1 Shareholder tax charge at corporate tax rate of 19% 2017: 19.25% 40.3 19% 35.8 19.3% Adjustments: Tax regime differences Lower rates of corporation tax in overseas subsidiaries 0.3 0.1% 0.3 0.2% Expected shareholder tax 40.0 18.9% 35.5 19.1% Other Non-taxable income 0.2 1.2 Revaluation of historic capital losses in the Group 1.8 Adjustment in respect of prior year Current tax 3.5 0.8 Deferred tax 0.9 0.8 Differences in accounting and tax bases in relation to employee share schemes 1.1 0.7 Disallowable expenses 2.0 2.0 Tax losses not recognised or past losses now recognised 2.1 3.1 1.6 0.8% 4.8 2.6% Shareholder tax charge 38.4 18.1% 40.3 21.7% Policyholder tax credit charge 296.5 156.0 Total tax credit charge for the year 258.1 196.3 1 Tax attributable to policyholder returns is equal to the policyholder tax charge and reflects fund tax deductions offset by policyholder tax effects on intangibles.
Tax calculated on loss profit before tax at 19% 2017: 19.25% would amount to 16.1 million 2017:65.9million.
The difference of 242.0 million 2017:130.4million between this number and the total tax of 258.1 million 2017:196.3million is made up of the reconciling items above which total 1.9 million 2017:4.5million and the effect of the apportionment methodology on tax applicable topolicyholder returns of 240.1 million 2017:126.0million.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 173 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS Expected 31 December 31 December utilisation 2018 2017 Years Million Million Unrelieved expenses life insurance business 6 42.5 46.4 Deferred income DIR 14 35.6 37.9 Capital losses available for future relief 6 55.7 86.0 Employee share scheme costs 3 8.0 7.5 Future capital allowances 6 4.0 3.7 Other 1.3 1.2 Total deferred tax assets 147.1 182.7 Appropriate investment income, gains or profits are expected to arise against which the tax assets can be utilised.
Whilst the actual rates of utilisation will depend on business growth and external factors, particularly investment market conditions, they have been tested for sensitivity to experience and are resilient to a range of reasonably foreseeable scenarios.
At the reporting date there were unrecognised deferred tax assets of 7.5million 2017:5.9million in respect of losses in companies where appropriate profits are not considered probable in the forecast period.
These losses primarily relate to our Asia-based businesses and can be carried forward indefinitely.
DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES Expected 31 December 31 December utilisation 2018 2017 Years Million Million Unrealised capital gains on life insurance BLAGAB assets backing unit liabilities 6 86.3 445.5 Deferred acquisition costs DAC 14 70.9 84.0 Purchased value of in-force business PVIF 9 4.1 4.8 Renewal income assets 20 10.4 10.6 Other 1.2 1.9 Total deferred tax liabilities 172.9 546.8 FUTURE TAX CHANGES Future tax rate changes, including the reduction in the corporation tax rate to 17% effective from 1 April 2020 which was enacted in the Finance Act 2016, were incorporated into the deferred tax balances in 2016.
co. uk 174 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 8.
Goodwill, intangible assets, deferred acquisition costs and deferred income Computer Purchased software and value of other specific in-force software Goodwill business developments DAC DIR Million Million Million Million Million Cost At 1 January 2017 13.8 73.4 15.7 1,649.8 1,528.0 Additions 1.8 0.3 36.9 141.4 At 31 December 2017 15.6 73.4 16.0 1,686.7 1,669.4 At 1 January 2018 15.6 73.4 16.0 1,686.7 1,669.4 Additions 0.1 33.7 144.6 At 31 December 2018 15.6 73.4 16.1 1,720.4 1,814.0 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2017 43.0 12.7 965.0 880.4 Charge for the year 3.2 0.9 98.7 142.7 At 31 December 2017 46.2 13.6 1,063.7 1,023.1 At 1 January 2018 46.2 13.6 1,063.7 1,023.1 Charge for the year 3.2 1.1 98.2 142.6 At 31 December 2018 49.4 14.7 1,161.9 1,165.7 Carrying value At 1 January 2017 13.8 30.4 3.0 684.8 647.6 At 31 December 2017 15.6 27.2 2.4 623.0 646.3 At 31 December 2018 15.6 24.0 1.4 558.5 648.3 Current 3.2 0.6 96.2 154.5 Non-current 15.6 20.8 0.8 462.3 493.8 15.6 24.0 1.4 558.5 648.3 Outstanding amortisation period At 31 December 2017 n a 8 years 4 years 14 years 614 years At 31 December 2018 n a 7 years 3 years 14 years 614 years GOODWILL The carrying value of goodwill split by acquisition is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million SJP Asia companies 10.1 10.1 Technical Connection Limited 3.7 3.7 Rowan Dartington companies 1.8 1.8 Balance at 31 December 15.6 15.6 Goodwill in relation to the Rowan Dartington companies, which were acquired on 8 March 2016, arose during 2017 due to a reassessment ofthe value of the business acquired within the measurement period, which is defined as a period of up to one-year post acquisition.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 175 Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment, or when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over this value.
Therecoverable amount has been based on value-in-use calculations using pre-tax cash flows.
Details of the assumptions made in these calculations are provided below: Key assumptions based on experience: Value of new business Projection period: Five years of detailed forecasts extrapolated into perpetuity usingalong-term growth rate Long-term growth rate based on economic forecasts: 1.3% Pre-tax discount rate based on a risk-free rate plus a risk margin: 4.5% It is considered that any reasonably possible levels of change in the key assumptions would not result in impairment of the goodwill.
PURCHASED VALUE OF IN-FORCE BUSINESS DAC COMPUTER SOFTWARE Amortisation is charged to expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.
Amortisation profiles are reassessed annually.
DIR Amortisation is credited within fee and commission income in the statement of comprehensive income.
Property and equipment Fixtures, fittings and office Computer equipment equipment Total Million Million Million Cost At 1 January 2017 39.7 4.4 44.1 Additions 7.1 1.5 8.6 Disposals 0.6 0.2 0.8 At 31 December 2017 46.2 5.7 51.9 At 1 January 2018 46.2 5.7 51.9 Additions 6.6 2.0 8.6 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2018 52.7 7.7 60.4 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2017 19.5 1.5 21.0 Charge for the year 3.7 1.5 5.2 Eliminated on disposal 0.5 0.2 0.7 At 31 December 2017 22.7 2.8 25.5 At 1 January 2018 22.7 2.8 25.5 Charge for the year 4.7 1.8 6.5 Eliminated on disposal 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2018 27.3 4.6 31.9 Net book value At 1 January 2017 20.2 2.9 23.1 At 31 December 2017 23.5 2.9 26.4 At 31 December 2018 25.4 3.1 28.5 Amortisation period estimated useful life 510 years 3 years ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
co. uk 176 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 10.
Investments, investment property and cash and cash equivalents NET ASSETS HELD TO COVER UNIT LIABILITIES Included within the statement of financial position are the following assets and liabilities comprising the net assets held to cover unit liabilities.
The assets held to cover unit liabilities are set out in adjustment 1 of the IFRS to Solvency II Net Assets Balance Sheet reconciliation on page38.
31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Assets Investment property 1,820.7 1,630.9 Equities 56,077.9 55,086.9 Fixed income securities 21,960.6 17,134.6 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 3,459.1 4,486.6 Cash and cash equivalents 6,629.1 7,005.9 Other receivables 1,059.1 475.9 Derivative financial instruments Currency forwards 153.7 143.8 Interest rate swaps 70.0 49.0 Index options 45.6 70.9 Contracts for differences 8.4 9.2 Equity rate swaps 3.5 5.4 Foreign currency options 21.4 19.1 Total return swaps 139.0 41.0 Fixed income options 55.9 Credit default swaps 11.3 4.2 Other derivatives 0.8 Total derivative financial assets 508.8 343.4 Total assets 91,515.3 86,164.2 Liabilities Other payables 277.7 151.5 Derivative financial instruments Currency forwards 199.4 75.1 Interest rate swaps 52.2 38.8 Index options 26.5 24.0 Contracts for differences 10.1 6.8 Equity rate swaps 5.8 4.4 Foreign currency options 0.7 22.9 Total return swaps 194.5 3.1 Credit default swaps 20.6 14.2 Fixed income options 7.6 Other derivatives 1.0 Total derivative financial liabilities 517.4 190.3 Total liabilities 795.1 341.8 Net assets held to cover linked liabilities 90,720.2 85,822.4 Investment contract benefits 67,796.1 64,014.3 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 22,502.9 21,349.1 Unit-linked insurance contract liabilities 421.2 459.0 Net unit-linked liabilities 90,720.2 85,822.4 Net assets held to cover linked liabilities, and third-party holdings in unit trusts, are considered to have a maturity of up to one year since the corresponding unit liabilities are repayable and transferable on demand.
See accounting policy ag for further information on current and non-current disclosure.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 177 INVESTMENT PROPERTY 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Balance at 1 January 1,630.9 1,462.4 Additions 274.0 88.5 Capitalised expenditure on existing properties 3.3 7.0 Disposals 64.7 6.2 Changes in fair value 22.8 79.2 Balance at 31 December 1,820.7 1,630.9 Investment property is held within unit-linked funds and is considered current.
However, since investment properties are not traded in an organised public market they are relatively illiquid compared with many other asset classes.
There are no restrictions on the realisability of the Groups individual properties, or on the remittance of income or proceeds of disposal.
Investment property is valued monthly by external chartered surveyors in accordance with the guidance issued by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
The investment property valuation has been prepared using the market approach valuation technique: that is, using prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable i. e. similar assets.
The historical cost of investment properties held at 31 December 2018 is 1,706.6million 2017:1,480.6million.
This represents the price paid for investment properties, prior to any subsequent revaluation.
The rental income and direct operating expenses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of investment properties are set out below.
All expenses relate to property generating rental income.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Rental income 90.9 82.3 Direct operating expenses 7.6 6.8 At the year end contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment property amounted to 23.0million 2017:12.5million.
The most significant contractual obligation is the funding of a hotel development on a freehold site owned by the Group.
The funding commitment for this development is 20.3million, with building works scheduled to take place over the next two years.
The development has been pre-let to a hotel operator, with the lease completing upon delivery of the finished building.
Contractual obligations to dispose of investment property amounted to nil 2017:nil.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Cash and cash equivalents not held to cover unit liabilities 248.5 274.7 Balances held to cover unit liabilities 6,629.1 7,005.9 Total cash and cash equivalents 6,877.6 7,280.6 All cash and cash equivalents are considered current.
co. uk 178 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 11.
Other receivables 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Receivables in relation to unit liabilities 1,060.1 885.1 Other receivables in relation to insurance and unit trust business 68.6 124.0 Operational readiness prepayment 236.4 170.6 Advanced payments to Partners 44.9 39.5 Other prepayments 70.1 58.2 Business loans to Partners 394.5 263.9 Renewal income assets 72.1 71.6 Miscellaneous 5.6 7.1 Total other receivables 1,952.3 1,620.0 Current 1,297.7 1,168.1 Non-current 654.6 451.9 1,952.3 1,620.0 All items within other receivables meet the definition of financial assets with the exception of prepayments and advanced payments to Partners.
The fair value of those financial assets held at amortised cost is not materially different from amortised cost.
Receivables in relation to unit liabilities primarily relate to outstanding market trade settlements sales in the life unit-linked funds and the consolidated unit trusts.
Other receivables in relation to insurance and unit trust business primarily relate to outstanding policy-related settlement timings.
Both of these categories of receivables are short-term, typically settled within three days.
The operational readiness prepayment relates to the new administration platform being developed by our key outsourced back-office administration provider.
Management has assessed the recoverability of this prepayment against the expected cost saving benefit of lower future tariff costs arising from the new platform.
It is believed that any reasonably possible change in the assumptions applied within this assessment, such as levels of future business, the anticipated future service tariffs and the discount rate, would have no impact on the carrying value of the asset.
Renewal income assets represent the present value of future cash flows associated with books of business acquired by the Group.
BUSINESS LOANS TO PARTNERS Business loans to Partners are interest-bearing linked to Bank of England base rate plus a margin, repayable on demand and secured against the future renewal income streams of the Partner.
Business loans to Partners include 99.0million of loans that have been securitised.
Legal ownership of the securitised assets has been transferred to a structured entity, SJP Partner Loans No.
1 Limited, which has issued 70.0million of loan notes backed by these assets to a third-party investor and 32.8million to another entity within the Group.
The securitised assets are ring fenced from the other assets of the Group, which means that the cash flows associated with the assets can only be used to purchase new loans into the structure in the revolving period, or repay the note holders in the amortisation period, plus associated issuance fees and costs.
Holders of the loan notes have no recourse to the Groups other assets.
Despite being securitised, the business loans to Partners remain recognised in the Group statement of financial position.
For further information on the loan notes issued by the structured entity to third-party investors, see Note 15 Borrowings and Financial Commitments.
Reconciliation of the business loans to Partners opening and closing gross loan balances Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 undernonperforming performing performing Total Million Million Million Million Gross balance at 1 January 2018 252.0 8.3 8.1 268.4 Business loans to Partners classification changes: Transfer to underperforming 5.0 5.0 Transfer to non-performing 0.2 0.1 0.3 Transfer to performing 5.0 5.0 New Lending activity during the year 296.5 296.5 Repayments activity during the year 165.3 0.6 1.4 167.3 Gross balance at 31 December 2018 383.0 7.6 7.0 397.6 ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 179 Business loans to Partners: provision The expected loss impairment model for business loans to Partners has been built based on the levels of loss experienced in the portfolio, withdue consideration given to forward-looking information.
The provision held against business loans to Partners under the incurred loss model as required by the previous accounting standard, IAS 39, was immaterial.
The provision required by applying the expected loss model from 1 January 2018, as required by IFRS 9, is also immaterial.
At31 December 2018, the provision held against the total book was 3.1million 31 December 2017:4.5million.
During the period, 0.6million of the provision was released 2017:0.1million whilst new provisions and adjustments to existing provisions increased the total by 1.4million 2017:1.3million.
Business loans to Partners as recognised on the statement of financial position 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Gross Business loans to Partners 397.6 268.4 Provision 3.1 4.5 Net Business loans to Partners 394.5 263.9 MOVEMENT IN RENEWAL INCOME ASSETS 2018 2017 Million Million At 1 January 71.6 58.9 Additions 9.7 14.5 Disposals 0.2 Revaluation 9.0 1.8 Total renewal income at 31 December 72.1 71.6 The key assumptions used for the assessment of the fair value of the renewal income are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 1 Lapse rate SJP Partner renewal income 5.0%15.0% 5.0%15.0% 1 Lapse rate non-SJP renewal income 15.0%25.0% 15.0%25.0% Discount rate 5.0%7.5% 5.0%7.5% 1 Future income streams are projected making use of persistency assumptions derived from the Groups experience of the business or, where insufficient data exists, from external industry experience.
These assumptions are reviewed on an annual basis.
These assumptions have been used for the analysis of each business combination classified within renewal income.
Other payables 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Payables in relation to unit liabilities 560.3 420.4 Other payables in relation to insurance and unit trust business 336.9 412.2 1 Accruals 151.2 139.4 Accruals to Partners 107.3 87.6 1 Miscellaneous 135.1 171.6 Total other payables 1,290.8 1,231.2 Current 1,213.7 1,140.4 Non-current 77.1 90.8 1,290.8 1,231.2 1 Payables of 12.9 million at 31 December 2017 have been reallocated from accruals to miscellaneous to better reflect the nature of the balance, given invoices had been received for these amounts.
Payables in relation to unit liabilities primarily relate to outstanding market trade settlements purchases in the life unit-linked funds and the consolidated unit trusts.
Other payables in relation to insurance and unit trust business primarily relate to outstanding policy-related settlement timings.
Both of these categories of payables are short-term, typically settled within three days.
Included within miscellaneous is a contract payment of 85.3million 2017:92.5million which is non-interest bearing and repayable on a straight-line basis over the life of a 12-year service agreement.
The repayment period commenced on 1 January 2017.
The fair value of financial instruments held at amortised cost within other payables is not materially different from amortised cost.
co. uk 180 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 13.
Insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets RISK Insurance risk arises from inherent uncertainties as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts under which the Group agrees to compensate the client or other beneficiary if a specified futureevent the insured event occurs.
The Group insures mortality and morbidity risks but has no longevity risk as we have never written anyannuity business.
The Group has a medium appetite for insurance risk, only actively pursuing it where financially beneficial, or in support ofstrategic objectives.
Risk Description Management Underwriting Failure to price appropriately for a risk, or the impact The Group ceased writing new protection business in ofanti-selection.
For most business the premium or deduction rates can be re-set.
TheGroup has fully reinsured the UK insurance risk.
Epidemic disaster An unusually large number of claims arising from Protection is provided through reinsurance.
The Group asingleincident or event.
hasfully reinsured the UK insurance risk.
Expense Administration costs exceed expense allowance.
Administration is outsourced and a tariff of costs is agreed.
The contract is monitored regularly to rationalise costs incurred.
Internal overhead expenses are monitored and closely managed.
Retention Unexpected movement in future profit due to more Retention of insurance contracts is closely monitored orless clients than anticipated withdrawing their funds.
Retention experience has continued in line with assumptions.
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES 2018 2017 Million Million Balance at 1 January 544.6 518.2 Movement in unit-linked liabilities 37.7 23.6 Movement in liabilities New business 0.1 0.1 Existing business 1.2 1.0 Other assumption changes 1.2 1.1 Experience variance 3.5 2.6 Total movement in liabilities 1.2 2.8 Balance at 31 December 508.1 544.6 Unit-linked 421.2 459.0 Non-unit-linked 86.9 85.6 508.1 544.6 Current 83.2 86.2 Non-current 424.9 458.4 508.1 544.6 See accounting policy ag for further information on the current and non-current disclosure.
As the Group closed to new insurance business in 2011, the movement in insurance contract liabilities in relation to new business represents the change in insurance contract liabilities for incremental business written during the year for existing policies.
REINSURANCE ASSETS 2018 2017 Million Million Reconciliation of the movement in the net reinsurance balance: Reinsurance assets at 1 January 82.8 80.5 Reinsurance component of change in insurance liabilities 2.3 Reinsurance assets at 31 December 82.8 82.8 Current 13.6 13.1 Non-current 69.2 69.7 82.8 82.8 The overall impact of reinsurance on the profit for the year was a net charge of 10.0million 2017: charge of 4.0million.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 181 ASSUMPTIONS USED IN THE CALCULATION OF INSURANCE LIABILITIES AND REINSURANCE ASSETS The principal assumptions used in the calculation of the liabilities are: Assumption Description Interest rate The valuation interest rate is calculated by reference to the long-term gilt yield at 31 December 2018.
Thespecific rates used are between 0.9% and 1.3% depending on the tax regime 0.9% and 1.3% at 31December 2017.
Mortality Mortality is based on Group experience and is set at 72% of the TM F92 tables with an additional loadingforsmokers.
There has been no change since 2006.
Morbidity Critical Illness Morbidity is based on Group experience.
There has been no change during 2018.
Sample annual ratesperfor a male non-smoker are: Age Rate 2017 and 2018 25 0.000760 35 0.001334 45 0.003189 Morbidity Permanent Health Morbidity is based on Group experience.
Sample annual rates per Insurance income benefit p. a. for a male non-smoker are: Age Rate 2017 and 2018 25 0.00366 35 0.00965 45 0.02092 Expenses Contract liabilities are calculated allowing for the actual costs of administration of the business.
Theassumption has been amended to allow for changes to the underlying administration costs.
Annual cost Product 2018 2017 Protection business 37.97 37.49 Persistency Allowance is made for a prudent level of lapses within the calculation of the liabilities.
The rates have not changed in 2018.
Sample annual lapse rates are: Lapses 2017 and 2018 Year 1 Year 5 Year 10 Protection business 7% 9% 8% SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The table below sets out the sensitivity of the profit on insurance business and net assets to changes in key assumptions.
The levels of sensitivity tested are consistent with those proposed in the EEV principles and reflect reasonably possible levels of change in the assumptions.
The analysis reflects the change in the variable assumption shown while all other variables assumptions are left unchanged.
In practice variables assumptions may change at the same time, as some may be correlated for example, an increase in interest rates may also result inan increase in expenses if the increase reflects higher inflation.
It should also be noted that in some instances sensitivities are non-linear.
Thesensitivity percentage has been applied in proportion to the assumption: for example, application of a 10% sensitivity to a withdrawal assumption of 8% will reduce it to 7.2%.
Change in Change in profit loss profit loss Change in net Change in net Change in before tax before tax assets assets assumption 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sensitivity analysis % Million Million Million Million Withdrawal rates -10% 0.9 1.0 0.9 1.0 Expense assumptions -10% 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Mortality morbidity -5% 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 A change in interest rates will have no material impact on insurance profit or net assets.
co. uk 182 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 14.
Other provisions and contingent liabilities Total provisions Million At 1 January 2017 17.1 Additional provisions 20.5 Utilised during the year 16.2 Release of provision 1.4 At 31 December 2017 20.0 At 1 January 2018 20.0 Additional provisions 18.9 Utilised during the year 16.1 Release of provision 0.1 At 31 December 2018 22.7 Current 12.6 Non-current 10.1 22.7 Total provisions relate to the cost of redress for complaints and clawback of indemnity commission.
The provision for the cost of redress for complaints is based on estimates of the total number of complaints expected to be upheld, the estimated cost of redress and the expected timing of settlement.
The clawback provision is based on estimates of the indemnity commission that may be repaid.
As more fully set out in the summary of principal risks and uncertainties on pages 51 to 54, the Group could in the course of its business be subject to legal proceedings and or regulatory activity.
Should such an event arise, the Board would consider its best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation and, where appropriate and material, establish a provision.
While there can be no assurances that circumstances will not change, based upon information currently available to them, the Directors do not believe there is any possible activity or event that could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
During the normal course of business, the Group may from time to time provide guarantees to Partners, clients or other third parties.
However, based upon the information currently available to them the Directors do not believe there are any guarantees which would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position, and so the fair value of any guarantees has been assessed as nil 2017:nil.
Borrowings and financial commitments BORROWINGS 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Bank borrowings 164.8 165.8 Loan notes 183.8 114.1 Total borrowings 348.6 279.9 Current 0.3 0.8 Non-current 348.3 279.1 348.6 279.9 Borrowings are a liability arising from financing activities.
The primary borrowings in the Group are: a 340 million revolving credit facility, which includes a 90 million extension agreed in 2017 to the original 250 million facility entered into with a group of UK banks in 2015.
The facility is repayable over five years to 2022 with a variable interest rate.
At 31 December 2018 the undrawn credit available under this facility was 179 million 31 December 2017:179 million : a US Dollar $160 million private shelf facility, also entered into in 2015.
The Group authorised the issue of 50 million of loan notes during 2015, and a further issue of 64 million of loans notes during 2017 in relation to this facility.
Both note issues were denominated in Sterling, eliminating any Group currency risk.
The notes are repayable over ten years, ending in 2025 and 2027 respectively, with variable interest rates:and 70.0 million of AAA-rated securitised loan notes issued during 2018, which are backed by a portfolio of business loans to Partners for further information refer to Note 11 Other receivables.
Holders of these notes have no recourse to the Groups other assets.
The notes are repayable over the expected life of the securitisation, which is estimated to be five years.
This includes a two-year revolving period where cash flows arising from the securitised portfolio are used to purchase new loans into the portfolio, rather than repay the notes.
The notes have variable interest rates.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 183 The movement in borrowings over the year are as follows: 2018 2017 Million Million Borrowings at 1 January 279.9 281.4 Additional borrowing during the year 232.5 100.0 Repayment of borrowings during the year 162.2 101.0 Costs on additional borrowings during the year 2.0 0.9 Unwind of borrowing costs non-cash movement 0.4 0.4 Borrowings at 31 December 348.6 279.9 The fair value of the outstanding borrowings is not materially different from amortised cost.
Interest expense on borrowings is recognised within expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group also guarantees loans provided by third parties to Partners.
In the event of default of any individual Partner loan, the Group guarantees to repay the full amount of the loan, with the exception of Metro Bank plc, where 50% of the loan is guaranteed.
These loans are secured against the future renewal income streams of the Partner.
The value of the loans guaranteed is as follows: Loans drawn Facility 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 Million Million Million Million Bank of Scotland 61.7 65.4 80.0 80.0 Metro Bank plc 52.5 46.7 61.0 61.0 Santander plc 49.5 55.0 50.0 75.0 Total loans 163.7 167.1 191.0 216.0 The fair value of these guarantees has been assessed as nil 2017:nil.
FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS The Group has commitments under non-cancellable operating leases in connection with the rental of office buildings and office equipment with varying lease end dates ranging from 2019 to 2042.
The following table represents the future minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases, including VAT, service charges and buildings insurance: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Not later than one year 18.0 18.1 Later than one year and not later than five years 53.7 56.2 Later than five years 69.6 74.4 Total financial commitments 141.3 148.7 As at 31 December 2018, there was 0.1million 2017:0.2million of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases.
Financial risk RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND RISK POLICIES The Groups financial risk can usefully be considered in two categories of assets: 1.
Assets backing unit liabilities see Note 10 : and 2.
In general, the policyholder bears the financial risk on assets backing the unitised business, and risk from shareholder assets is minimised through investment in liquid assets with a strong credit rating.
Exposure to the following risks for the two categories of assets is analysed separately in the following sections, in line with the requirements ofIFRS 7: Credit risk: Liquidity risk: Market risk: and Currency risk.
co. uk 184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 16.
Financial risk continued Credit risk is the risk of loss due to a debtors non-payment of a loan or other line of credit.
Credit risk also arises from holdings of cash and cash equivalents, deposits and formal loans with banks and financial institutions.
The Group has adopted a risk averse approach to such risk and has a stated policy of not actively pursuing or accepting credit risk except when necessary to support other objectives.
Risk Description Management Shareholders assets Loss of assets or reduction Shareholder funds are predominantly invested in AAA-rated unitised money market in value funds, which are classified as investments in collective investment schemes CIS, and deposits with approved banks, but may be invested in sovereign fixed interest securities such as UK gilts where regulatory constraints onother assets apply.
Maximum counterparty limits are set for each company within the Group and aggregate limits are also set at a Group level.
Reinsurance Failure of counterparty Credit ratings of potential reinsurers must meet or exceed AA-.
Consideration is also orcounterparty unable given to size, risk concentrations exposures and ownership in the selection of tomeet liabilities reinsurers.
The Group also seeks to diversify its reinsurance credit risk through the use of a spread of reinsurers.
Business loans to Partners Inability of Partners to Loans and advances are managed in line with the Groups secured lending policy.
repay loans or advances Loans are secured on the future renewal income stream expected from a Partners from the Group portfolio and loan advances vary in relation to the projected future income of the relevant Partner.
Outstanding balances are regularly reviewed and assessed on a conservative basis.
Support is provided to help Partners manage their business appropriately.
Expected credit losses are recognised as provisions against the loans.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, either does not have available sufficient financial resources to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure such resources only at excessive cost.
The Group is averse to liquidity risk and seeks to minimise this risk by not actively pursuing it except where necessary to support other objectives.
Risk Description Management Cash or expense A significant cash or The majority of free assets are invested in cash or cash equivalents and the cash requirement expense requirement position and forecast are monitored on a monthly basis.
The Group also maintains a needs to be met at short margin of free assets in excess of the minimum required solvency capital within its notice.
Further, the Group has established committed borrowing facilities see Note 15 intended to further mitigate liquidity risk.
Market risk is the impact a fall in the value of equity or other asset markets may have on the business.
The Group adopts a risk-averse approach to market risk, with a stated solvency policy of not actively pursuing or accepting market risk except where necessary to support other objectives.
However, the Group accepts the risk that a fall in equity or other asset markets will reduce the level of annual management charge income derived from policyholder assets and the risk of lower future profits.
The table below summarises the main market risks that the business is exposed to and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
Risk Description Management Client liabilities As a result of a reduction in This risk is substantially mitigated by the Groups strategic focus on unitised equity values, the Group business, by not providing guarantees to clients on policy values and by the may be unable to meet matching of assets and liabilities.
Retention Loss of future profit on Retention of investment contracts is closely monitored and unexpected experience investment contracts due variances are investigated.
Retention has remained consistently strong throughout to more clients than 2018, despite volatile market conditions.
anticipated withdrawing their funds, particularly as a result of poor investment performance.
New business Poor performance in the The benefit to clients of longer-term equity investment as part of a diversified financial markets in portfolio of assets is fundamental to our philosophy.
Advice and marketing become absolute terms, and even more important when market values fall, and greater attention is required to relative to inflation, leads to support and give confidence to existing and future clients in such circumstances.
existing and future clients This is taken account of by the Group in its activities.
rejecting investment in longer-term assets.
The Group is not subject to any significant direct currency risk, since all material shareholder financial assets and financial liabilities are denominated in Sterling.
However, since future profits are dependent on charges based on FUM, changes in FUM as a result of currency movements will impact future profits.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 185 SHAREHOLDER ASSETS Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities The categories and carrying values of the shareholder financial assets and financial liabilities held in the Groups statement of financial position are summarised in the table below: Financial assets Financial at fair value Financial assets liabilities through profit measured at measured at 1 2 and loss amortised cost amortised cost Total 31 December 2018 Million Million Million Million Financial assets Fixed income securities 5.4 5.4 3 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 1,297.0 1,297.0 4 Other receivables Business loans to Partners 394.5 394.5 Renewal income assets 72.1 72.1 Other 75.1 75.1 Total other receivables 72.1 469.6 541.7 Cash and cash equivalents 248.5 248.5 Total financial assets 1,374.5 718.1 2,092.6 Financial liabilities Borrowings 348.6 348.6 Other payables 1,013.1 1,013.1 Total financial liabilities 1,361.7 1,361.7 Financial assets Financial at fair value Financial assets liabilities through profit measured at measured at 1 2 and loss amortised cost amortised cost Total 31 December 2017 Million Million Million Million Financial assets Fixed income securities 46.1 46.1 3 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 1,416.8 1,416.8 4 Other receivables Business loans to Partners 263.9 263.9 Renewal income assets 71.6 71.6 Other 540.3 540.3 Total other receivables 71.6 804.2 875.8 Cash and cash equivalents 274.7 274.7 Total financial assets 1,534.5 1,078.9 2,613.4 Financial liabilities Borrowings 279.9 279.9 Other payables 1,079.7 1,079.7 Total financial liabilities 1,359.6 1,359.6 1 All financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such upon initial recognition.
Renewal income assets of 71.6 million, which were classified as available-for-sale financial assets at 31 December 2017, were reclassified to fair value through profit and loss upon adoption of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018.
2 These financial assets, which were classified as loans and receivables at 31 December 2017, were reclassified to financial assets measured at amortised cost upon transition to IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018.
3 All assets included as shareholder investment in collective investment schemes are holdings of high-quality, highly liquid money market funds, containing assets which are cash and cash equivalents.
4 Other receivables exclude prepayments and unearned commission, which are not considered financial assets.
co. uk 186 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 16.
Financial risk continued SHAREHOLDER ASSETS CONTINUED Income, expense, gains and losses arising from financial assets and financial liabilities The income, expense, gains and losses arising from shareholder financial assets and financial liabilities are summarised in the table below: Financial assets Financial at fair value Financial assets liabilities through profit measured at measured at 1 2 and loss amortised cost amortised cost Total Year ended 31 December 2018 Million Million Million Million Financial assets Fixed income securities 0.6 0.6 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 6.2 6.2 Other receivables Business loans to Partners 9.0 9.0 Renewal income assets 9.0 9.0 Total other receivables 9.0 9.0 Cash and cash equivalents 1.2 1.2 Total financial assets 2.2 10.2 8.0 Financial liabilities Borrowings 6.1 6.1 Total financial liabilities 6.1 6.1 Financial assets Financial at fair value Financial assets liabilities through profit measured at measured at 1 2 and loss amortised cost amortised cost Total Year ended 31 December 2017 Million Million Million Million Financial assets Fixed income securities 0.1 0.1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 3.0 3.0 Other receivables Business loans to Partners 6.9 6.9 Renewal income assets 1.8 1.8 Total other receivables 1.8 6.9 5.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.6 0.6 Total financial assets 1.3 7.5 8.8 Financial liabilities Borrowings 4.9 4.9 Other payables 0.8 0.8 Total financial liabilities 5.7 5.7 1 All financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such upon initial recognition.
Net losses arising from renewal income assetswere 1.8 million for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Following the reclassification of renewal income assets from available-for-sale financial assets at 31December 2017 to fair value through profit and loss upon adoption of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018, the 1.8 million net losses have been presented in the fair value through profit and loss column.
2 Income, expenses, gains and losses arising from these financial assets, which were classified as loans and receivables at 31 December 2017, were reclassified to financial assets measured at amortised cost upon transition to IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018.
Losses on renewal income assets have been recognised within the investment return line in the statement of comprehensive income.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 187 Fair value estimation Financial assets and liabilities, which are held at fair value in the financial statements, are required to have disclosed their fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices Level 2 : and inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
The following table presents the Groups shareholder assets measured at fair value.
There are no shareholder liabilities measured at fair value: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total balance 31 December 2018 Million Million Million Million Financial assets Fixed income securities 5.4 5.4 1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 1,297.0 1,297.0 Renewal income assets 72.1 72.1 Total financial assets 1,302.4 72.1 1,374.5 31 December 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total balance Million Million Million Million Financial assets Fixed income securities 46.1 46.1 1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 1,416.8 1,416.8 Renewal incomes assets 71.6 71.6 Total financial assets 1,462.9 71.6 1,534.5 1 All assets included as shareholder investment in collective investment schemes are holdings of high-quality, highly liquid unitised money market funds, containing assets which are cash and cash equivalents.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted bid prices at the reporting date.
These instruments are included in Level 1.
Level 2 financial assets and liabilities are valued using observable prices for identical current arms length transactions.
The renewal income assets are Level 3 and are valued using a discounted cash flow technique and the assumptions outlined in Note 11.
The effect of applying reasonably possible alternative assumptions of a movement of 100bps on the discount rate and a 10% movement in the lapse rate would result in an unfavourable change in valuation of 7.4million and a favourable change in valuation of 5.0million, respectively.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year, nor into or out of Level 3.
Movement in Level 3 portfolios 2018 2017 Renewal income assets Million Million Opening balance 71.6 58.9 Additions during the year 9.7 14.5 Disposals during the year 0.2 Unrealised losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 9.0 1.8 Closing balance 72.1 71.6 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
co. uk 188 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 16.
Financial risk continued SHAREHOLDER ASSETS CONTINUED Credit risk The following table sets out the maximum credit risk exposure and ratings of shareholder financial and other assets which are susceptible to credit risk: AAA AA A BBB Unrated Total 31 December 2018 Million Million Million Million Million Million Fixed income securities 4.1 1.3 5.4 1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 1,297.0 1,297.0 Reinsurance assets 82.8 82.8 Other receivables 6.2 535.5 541.7 Cash and cash equivalents 63.6 161.7 0.3 22.9 248.5 Total 1,301.1 153.9 161.7 0.3 558.4 2,175.4 AAA AA A BBB Unrated Total 31 December 2017 Million Million Million Million Million Million Fixed income securities 3.9 42.2 46.1 1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 1,416.8 1,416.8 Reinsurance assets 82.8 82.8 Other receivables 7.1 868.7 875.8 Cash and cash equivalents 76.2 162.2 14.2 22.1 274.7 Total 1,420.7 208.3 162.2 14.2 890.8 2,696.2 1 Investment of shareholder assets in Collective Investment Schemes refers to investment in unitised money market funds, containing assets which are cash and cash equivalents.
Other receivables includes 394.5million 2017:263.9million of loans to St. Jamess Place Partners, which are interest-bearing linked to Bank of England base rate plus a margin, repayable on demand and secured against the future renewal income streams of the Partner.
Impairment of these loans is determined using the expected loss model set out in IFRS 9.
Expected credit losses are based on the historic levels of loss experienced on business loans to Partners, with due consideration given to forward-looking information.
A range of factors, including the nature or type of the loan and the security held, are taken into account in calculating the provision.
The loan balance is presented net of a 3.1million provision 2017:4.5million : see also Note 11.
The movement in the impairment provision will reflect utilisation of the existing provision during the year, but the overall cost of Partner business loans including new provisions recognised within administration expenses in the statement of comprehensive income during the year was a charge of 3.0million 2017:1.8million.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 189 Contractual maturity and liquidity analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities: Up to 1 15 Over 5 year years years Total 31 December 2018 Million Million Million Million Financial assets Fixed income securities 5.4 5.4 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 1,297.0 1,297.0 Other receivables Business loans to Partners 47.4 123.4 223.7 394.5 Renewal income 13.3 28.5 30.3 72.1 Other 75.1 75.1 Total other receivables 135.8 151.9 254.0 541.7 Cash and cash equivalents 248.5 248.5 Total financial assets 1,686.7 151.9 254.0 2,092.6 Financial liabilities Borrowings 1.0 279.7 71.2 351.9 Other payables 816.7 41.8 50.0 908.5 Total financial liabilities 817.7 321.5 121.2 1,260.4 Up to 1 15 Over 5 year years years Total 31 December 2017 Million Million Million Million Financial assets Fixed income securities 46.1 46.1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 1,416.8 1,416.8 Other receivables Business loans to Partners 57.0 108.8 98.1 263.9 Renewal income 13.4 30.2 28.0 71.6 Other 540.3 540.3 Total other receivables 610.7 139.0 126.1 875.8 Cash and cash equivalents 274.7 274.7 Total financial assets 2,348.3 139.0 126.1 2,613.4 Financial liabilities Borrowings 1.2 185.4 95.1 281.7 Other payables 989.0 48.3 70.0 1,107.3 Total financial liabilities 990.2 233.7 165.1 1,389.0 Sensitivity analysis to market risks Financial assets and liabilities held outside unitised funds primarily consist of fixed interest securities, units in money market funds, cash and cash equivalents, and other accounting assets and liabilities.
The fixed interest securities are short-term and are held as an alternative to cash.
Similarly, cash held in unitised money market funds and at bank is valued at par and is unaffected by movement in interest rates.
Other assets and liabilities are similarly unaffected by market movements.
As a result of these combined factors, the Groups financial assets and liabilities held outside unitised funds are not materially subject to market risk, and movements at the reporting date in interest rates and equity values have an immaterial impact on the Groups profit after taxand equity.
Future profits from annual management charges may be affected by movements in interest rates and equity values.
co. uk 190 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 16.
Financial risk continued UNIT LIABILITIES AND ASSOCIATED ASSETS Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities Assets held to cover unit liabilities are summarised in Note 10, and all are held at fair value through profit or loss.
They are designated as such upon initial recognition.
Income, expense, gains and losses arising from financial assets, investment properties and financial liabilities The income, expense, gains and losses arising from financial assets, investment properties and financial liabilities are summarised in the table below: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Financial assets and investment properties Investment properties 60.5 154.7 Other assets backing unit liabilities 3,046.0 5,545.1 Total financial assets and investment properties 2,985.5 5,699.8 1 Financial liabilities Unit liabilities 3,357.1 4,921.3 Total financial liabilities 3,357.1 4,921.3 1 None of the change in the fair value of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss is attributable to changes in their credit risk.
Losses have been recognised within the investment return line in the statement of comprehensive income.
Fair value estimation Financial assets and liabilities, which are held at fair value in the financial statements, are required to have disclosed their fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices Level 2 : or inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities measured at fair value: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total balance 31 December 2018 Million Million Million Million Financial assets and investment properties Investment property 1,820.7 1,820.7 Equities 56,077.9 56,077.9 Fixed income securities 6,322.3 15,638.3 21,960.6 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 3,457.3 1.8 3,459.1 Derivative financial instruments 508.8 508.8 Cash and cash equivalents 6,629.1 6,629.1 Total financial assets and investment properties 72,486.6 16,147.1 1,822.5 90,456.2 Financial liabilities Investment contract benefits 67,796.1 67,796.1 Derivative financial instruments 517.4 517.4 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 22,502.9 22,502.9 Total financial liabilities 22,502.9 68,313.5 90,816.4 ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 191 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total balance 31 December 2017 Million Million Million Million Financial assets and investment properties Investment property 1,630.9 1,630.9 Equities 55,086.9 55,086.9 Fixed income securities 4,666.0 12,468.6 17,134.6 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 4,483.7 2.9 4,486.6 Derivative financial instruments 343.4 343.4 Cash and cash equivalents 7,005.9 7,005.9 Total financial assets and investment properties 71,242.5 12,812.0 1,633.8 85,688.3 Financial liabilities Investment contract benefits 64,014.3 64,014.3 Derivative financial instruments 190.3 190.3 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 21,349.1 21,349.1 Total financial liabilities 21,349.1 64,204.6 85,553.7 In respect of the derivative financial liabilities, 387.5million of collateral has been posted at 31 December 2018 2017:116.0million, comprising cash and treasury bills, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the derivative contracts.
The Group closely monitors the valuation of assets in markets that have become less liquid.
Determining whether a market is active requires the exercise of judgement and is determined based upon the facts and circumstances of the market for the instrument being measured.
Where it is determined that there is no active market, fair value is established using a valuation technique.
The techniques applied incorporate relevant information available and reflect appropriate adjustments for credit and liquidity risks.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
The relative weightings given to differing sources of information and the determination of non-observable inputs to valuation models can require the exercise of significant judgement.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
Note that all the resulting fair value estimates are included in Level 2, except for certain equities and investments in CIS and investment properties as detailed below.
Specific valuation techniques used to value Level 2 financial assets and liabilities include: the use of observable prices for identical current arms length transactions, specifically: - the fair value of unit-linked liabilities is assessed by reference to the value of the underlying net asset value of the Groups unitised investment funds, determined on a bid value basis, at the reporting date: and - the Groups derivative financial instruments are valued using valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
These consist of discounted cash flow and option pricing models, which typically incorporate observable market data, principally interest rates, basis spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and counterparty credit.
Specific valuation techniques used to value Level 3 financial assets and liabilities include: the use of unobservable inputs, such as expected rental values and equivalent yields: and other techniques, such as discounted cash flow and historic lapse rates, which are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
co. uk 192 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 16.
Financial risk continued UNIT LIABILITIES AND ASSOCIATED ASSETS CONTINUED Transfers into and out of Level 3 portfolios Transfers out of Level 3 portfolios arise when inputs that could have a significant impact on the instruments valuation become market-observable: conversely, transfers into the portfolios arise when consistent sources of data cease to be available.
Transfers in of certain equities and investments in CIS occur when asset valuations can no longer be obtained from an observable market price: i. e. become illiquid, in liquidation, suspended etc.
The converse is true if an observable market price becomes available.
The following table presents the changes in Level 3 financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the profit and loss: Investment property CIS Year ended 31 December 2018 Million Million Opening balance 1,630.9 2.9 Transfer into Level 3 0.5 Additions during the year 277.3 Disposed during the year 64.7 1.6 Losses recognised in the income statement 22.8 Closing balance 1,820.7 1.8 Unrealised losses 36.3 Realised gains 13.5 Losses recognised in the income statement 22.8 Investment property CIS Year ended 31 December 2017 Million Million Opening balance 1,462.4 1.4 Transfer into Level 3 1.6 Additions during the year 95.5 Disposed during the year 6.2 0.1 Gains recognised in the income statement 79.2 Closing balance 1,630.9 2.9 Realised losses 1.1 Unrealised gains 80.3 Gains recognised in the income statement 79.2 Gains losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are included within investment return for certain equities and investments in collective investment schemes and investment property.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 193 Level 3 valuations The principal assets classified as Level 3 are investment properties amounting to 1,820.7million 2017:1,630.9million.
Investment property is initially measured at cost including related acquisition costs and subsequently valued monthly by professional external valuers at their respective fair values at each reporting date.
The fair values derived are based on anticipated market values for the properties in accordance with the guidance issued by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, being the estimated amount that would be received from a sale of the assets in an orderly transaction between market participants.
The valuation of investment property is inherently subjective as it requires, among other factors, assumptions to be made regarding the ability of existing tenants to meet their rental obligations over the entire life of their leases, the estimation of the expected rental income into the future, an assessment of a propertys potential to remain as an attractive technical configuration to existing and prospective tenants in a changing market and a judgement to be reached on the attractiveness of a building, its location and the surrounding environment.
Investment property classification 31 December 2018 Office Industrial Retail and leisure All 1 Gross ERV per sq ft Range 14.6699.97 4.0029.39 4.50159.96 4.00159.96 Weighted average 34.03 8.17 15.92 14.89 True equivalent yield Range 4.1%8.6% 4.1%6.7% 4.6%13.7% 4.1%13.7% Weighted average 5.2% 4.9% 6.2% 5.5% 31 December 2017 1 Gross ERV per sq ft Range 14.6696.50 3.5015.75 4.50427.84 3.50427.84 Weighted average 32.02 7.28 15.51 14.12 True equivalent yield Range 3.9%8.4% 4.2%6.7% 4.6%13.8% 3.9%13.8% Weighted average 5.3% 5.3% 6.0% 5.6% 1 Equivalent rental value per square foot Sensitivity of Level 3 valuations The valuation of certain equities and investments in CIS are based on the latest observable price available.
Whilst such valuations are sensitive to estimates, it is believed that changing the price applied to a reasonably possible alternative would not change the fair value significantly.
The following table sets out the effect of applying reasonably possible alternative assumptions, being a 5% movement in estimated rental value and a 25 bps movement in relative yield, to the valuation of the investment properties.
Any change in the value of investment property is matched by an associated movement in the policyholder liability, and therefore would not impact on the shareholder net assets.
Effect of reasonable possible alternative assumptions Favourable Unfavourable Carrying value changes changes Investment property significant unobservable inputs Million Million Million 31 December 2018 Expected rental value Relative yield 1,820.7 1,994.9 1,665.2 31 December 2017 Expected rental value Relative yield 1,630.9 1,782.1 1,496.1 Credit risk Credit risk relating to unit liabilities is borne by the unit holders.
Contractual maturity and liquidity analysis Unit liabilities and the associated assets are deemed to have a maturity of up to one year since they are repayable and transferable on demand.
In practice the contractual maturities of the assets may be longer than one year, but the majority of assets held within the unit-linked and unit trust funds are highly liquid and the Group also actively monitors fund liquidity.
Sensitivity analysis to market risks The majority of the Groups business is unitised and the direct associated market risk is therefore borne by unit holders.
For completeness, we note that there is an indirect risk associated with market performance as future shareholder income is dependent upon markets: however, the direct risk has been mitigated through the Groups approach to matching assets and liabilities.
co. uk 194 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 17.
Capital management and allocation The Groups Capital Management policy, set by the Board, is to maintain a strong capital base in order to: protect clients interests: meet regulatory requirements: protect creditors interests: and create shareholder value through support for business development.
The policy requires that each subsidiary manages its own capital, in particular to maintain regulatory solvency, in the context of a Group capital plan.
Any capital in excess of planned requirements is returned to the Groups Parent Company, St. Jamess Place plc, normally by way of dividends.
The Group capital position is monitored by the Audit Committee on behalf of the St. Jamess Place plc Board.
REGULATORY CAPITAL The Groups capital management policy is, for each subsidiary, to hold the higher of: the capital required by any relevant supervisory body uplifted by a specified margin to absorb changes: or the capital required based on the Companys internal assessment.
For our insurance companies, we hold capital based on our own internal assessment, recognising the regulatory requirement.
For other regulated companies we generally hold capital based on the regulatory requirement uplifted by a specified margin.
The following entities are subject to regulatory supervision and have to maintain a minimum level of regulatory capital: Entity Regulatory body and jurisdiction St. Jamess Place UK plc PRA and FCA: Long-term insurance business St. Jamess Place International plc Central Bank of Ireland: Life insurance business St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited FCA: UCITS Management Company St. Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited FCA: Investment Firm St. Jamess Place Wealth Management PCIS Limited FCA: Securities and Futures Firm St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc FCA: Personal Investment Firm St. Jamess Place Partnership Services Limited FCA: Consumer Credit Firm BFS Financial Services Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm Hale Financial Solutions Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm Linden House Financial Services Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm LP Financial Management Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm St. Jamess Place Hong Kong Limited Securities and Futures Commission Hong Kong : A Member of The Hong Kong Confederation of Insurance Brokers St. Jamess Place International Hong Kong Limited Insurance Authority Hong Kong St. Jamess Place Singapore Private Limited Monetary Authority Singapore: A Member of the Association of Financial Advisers Rowan Dartington & Co Limited FCA: Investment Firm In addition, the St. Jamess Place Group is regulated as an insurance group under Solvency II, with the PRA as the lead regulator.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 195 As an insurance group, St. Jamess Place is subject to the Solvency II regulations, which were implemented on 1 January 2016.
More information about capital position of the Group under Solvency II regulations is set out in the separate Solvency and Financial Condition Report document.
The overall capital position for the Group at 31 December 2018, assessed on the standard formula basis, is presented in the following table: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million IFRS total assets 94,827.0 90,006.0 Less Solvency II valuation adjustments and unit-linked liabilities 93,719.0 88,910.9 Solvency II net assets 1,108.0 1,095.1 Management Solvency Buffer MSB 491.0 461.9 Excess of free assets over MSB 617.0 633.2 Solvency II VIF 3,388.8 3,244.3 Risk margin 989.4 946.1 Standard formula SCR A 2,447.3 2,449.2 Sub-total 47.9 151.0 Solvency II free assets B 1,060.1 944.1 Solvency II ratio A B A 143% 139% An overall internal capital assessment is required for insurance groups.
This is known as an ORSA Own Risk and Solvency Assessment andisdescribed in more detail in the ORSA section of the Risk and Risk Management report: refer to page 50.
The regulatory capital requirements of companies within the Group, and the associated solvency of the Group, are assessed and monitored by the Finance Executive Committee, a Committee of the Executive Board, with oversight by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Group Board.
Ultimate responsibility for individual companies regulatory capital lies with the relevant subsidiary boards.
There has been no material change in the level of capital requirements of individual companies during the year, nor in the Groups management of capital.
All regulated entities exceeded the minimum solvency requirements at the reporting date and during the year.
IFRS CAPITAL COMPOSITION The principal forms of capital are included in the following balances on the consolidated statement of financial position: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Share capital 79.4 79.4 Share premium 174.5 171.7 Shares in trust reserve 23.7 26.7 Miscellaneous reserves 2.5 2.5 Retained earnings 787.3 832.1 Shareholders equity 1,020.0 1,059.0 Non-controlling interests 0.9 0.9 Total equity 1,019.1 1,058.1 The above assets do not all qualify as regulatory capital.
The required minimum regulatory capital and analysis of the assets that qualify as regulatory capital are outlined in Section 3 of the Financial Review on page 44, which demonstrates that the Group has met its internal capital objectives.
The Group and its individually regulated operations have complied with all externally and internally imposed capital requirements throughout the year.
co. uk 196 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 18.
Share capital, earnings per share and dividends SHARE CAPITAL Number of Called-up ordinary shares share capital Million At 1 January 2017 527,482,348 79.1 Issue of share capital 372,325 0.1 Exercise of options 1,223,223 0.2 At 31 December 2017 529,077,896 79.4 Exercise of options 375,501 At 31 December 2018 529,453,397 79.4 The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 605million 2017: 605million, with a par value of 15 pence per share 2017: 15 pence per share.
All issued shares are fully paid.
Included in the issued share capital are 3,505,217 2017: 4,210,906 shares held in the shares in trust reserve with a nominal value of 0.5million 2017:0.6million.
The shares are held by the SJP Employee Share Trust and the St. Jamess Place 2010 SIP Trust to satisfy certain share-based payment schemes.
The trustees of the SJP Employee Share Trust retain the right to dividends on the shares held by theTrust but have chosen to waive their entitlement to the dividends on 845,897 shares at 31 December 2018 and 1,755,831 shares at 31December 2017.
Nodividends have been waived on shares held in the St. Jamess Place 2010 SIP Trust in 2018 or 2017.
The number of shares reserved for issue under options and contracts for sale of shares, including terms and conditions, is included within Note 19.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Earnings Profit after tax attributable to equity shareholders for both basic and diluted EPS 173.5 145.9 Million Million Weighted average number of shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic EPS 526.0 524.3 Adjustments for outstanding share options 8.7 8.8 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted EPS 534.7 533.1 Pence Pence Earnings per share EPS Basic earnings per share 33.0 27.8 Diluted earnings per share 32.4 27.4 DIVIDENDS The following dividends have been paid by the Group: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 Pence per share Pence per share Million Million Final dividend in respect of previous financial year 27.45 20.67 145.0 108.8 Interim dividend in respect of current financial year 18.49 15.41 97.7 81.2 Total dividends 45.94 36.08 242.7 190.0 The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 29.73 pence per share 2017: 27.45 pence.
This amounts to 157.4million 2017:145.2million and will, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, be paid on 24 May 2019 to those shareholders on the register as at 5 April 2019.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 197 19.
Share-based payments During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group operated a number of different equity and cash-settled share-based payment arrangements, which are aggregated as follows: SHARE OPTION SCHEMES Save As You Earn SAYE Plan this is a standard HMRC approved equity-settled scheme that is available to all employees where individuals may contribute up to 250 per month over the three-year vesting period to purchase shares at a price not less than 80% of the market price at the date of the invitation to participate.
The are no other vesting conditions.
Partner Share Option Schemes these equity-settled awards were offered to the Partners of the St. Jamess Place Partnership and vest over three to six years subject to satisfying personal new business-related performance criteria.
The last award under these schemes was made in 2007.
Partner Performance Share Plan under this plan Partners are entitled to purchase shares in the future at nominal value 15 pence.
The number of shares the Partners are entitled to purchase will depend on their personal business volumes in a specified 12-month period and validation over the following three years.
The first award under the scheme was made on 29 July 2016, when 3,456,281 shares were granted.
No grants were made in 2018 2017: Nil.
Partner and Adviser Chartered Plan the scheme was launched during 2015 as part of the Partner Performance Share Plan whereby Partners and advisers are entitled to purchase shares in the future at nominal value 15 pence.
The number of shares the Partners are entitled to purchase will depend upon achieving specific professional qualifications and a threshold new business level in a specified 12-month period and validation over the following three years.
The first award under the scheme was made on 29 July 2016, when 2,019,000 shares were granted.
Associate Partner Plan a new equity-settled scheme was launched during 2017 whereby Partners and advisers are entitled to purchase a set number of shares in the future at the market price at the date of the invitation if they meet the required business volumes over the following three years.
SHARE AWARDS Share Incentive Plan SIP this is an HMRC approved equity-settled scheme, available to all employees, where individuals may invest up to an annual limit of 1,800 of pre-tax salary in St. Jamess Place plc shares, to which the Group will add a further 10%.
The vesting period is three years, however if the shares are held for five years they may be sold free of income tax or capital gains tax.
There are no other vesting conditions.
Executive Deferred Bonus Schemes under these plans the deferred element of the annual bonus is used to purchase shares at market value in the Company.
The shares are held in trust over the three-year vesting period and may be subject to further non-market-based performance conditions.
The plans are predominantly equity-settled.
794,750 2017: 694,149 shares were granted under the deferred bonus schemes on 26 March 2018 2017: 27 March 2017.
Executive Performance Share Plan the Remuneration Committee of the Group Board may make awards of performance shares to the Executive Directors and other senior managers.
Two-thirds of shares awarded to Directors are subject to an earnings growth condition of the Group and one-third of shares awarded to Directors are subject to a comparative total shareholder return condition, both measured over a three-year vesting period.
Further information regarding the vesting conditions of the earnings growth and total shareholder return dependent portions of the award is given in the Directors' Remuneration Report on page 126.
Awards made to senior managers are largely only subject to the earnings growth condition of the Group.
This is predominantly an equity-settled scheme.
1,101,308 2017: 961,106 shares were granted under the Executive Performance Share Plan across two grants made on 26 March 2018 and 21 September 2018 2017: three grants made on 27 March 2017, 26 September 2017 and 7 November 2017.
Restricted Share Plan upon acquisition of the Rowan Dartington Group a new scheme was launched for eligible employees.
Employees were granted shares, 50% of which vest after 18 months, and the remaining 50% vest after three years providing the individual remains in employment within the Group and maintains any applicable professional qualifications.
The plan is predominantly equity-settled.
323,300 shares were granted under the Restricted Share Plan on 29 July 2016.
Share options and awards outstanding under the various share-based payment schemes set out above at 31 December 2018, amount to 18.2million shares 2017: 16.4million.
Of these, 11.2million 2017: 10.1million are under option to Partners of the St. Jamess Place Partnership, 5.4million 2017: 5.0million are under option to executives and senior management including 1.1million 2017: 1.4million under option to Directors as disclosed in the Directors' Remuneration Report on page 133, 0.2million 2017: 0.2million are under option to employees who became employees of the Group on acquisition of the Rowan Dartington Group and 1.4million 2017: 1.2million are under option through the SAYE and SIP schemes.
These are exercisable on a range of future dates.
co. uk 198 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 19.
Share-based payments continued FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS UNDERLYING THE CALCULATION OF FAIR VALUE The fair value expense has been based on the fair value of the instruments granted, as calculated using appropriate derivative pricing models.
The table below shows the weighted average assumptions and models used to calculate the grant-date fair value of each award: Executive Executive SAYE Share Deferred Performance Associate 5 6 Plan Incentive Plan Bonus Share Plan Partner Plan Valuation model Black Scholes Black Scholes Black Scholes Monte Carlo Black Scholes Awards in 2018 3 4 Fair value pence 230.7 235.6 1,090.0 1,092.0 565.7 1,092.0 227.3 3 Share price pence 1,109.0 1,138.5 1,090.0 1,092.0 1,092.0 1,142.0 3 Exercise price pence 911.0 906.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,135.0 1 3 Expected volatility % pa 27 25 N A N A 27 27.0 2 3 Expected dividends % pa 3.9 4.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 3 Risk-free interest rate % pa 0.95 0.94 N A N A N A 0.9 Expected life years 3.5 3 3 3 3 Volatility of competitors % pa N A N A N A 1457 N A Correlation with competitors % N A N A N A 20 N A Awards in 2017 4 Fair value pence 244.6 1,056.0 1,061.0 628.1 1,061.0 219.5 Share price pence 1,041.0 1,056.0 1,061.0 1,061.0 1,080.0 Exercise price pence 844.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,083.0 1 Expected volatility % pa 29.0 N A N A 29.0 29.0 2 Expected dividends % pa 3.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Risk-free interest rate % pa 0.5 N A N A N A 0.5 Expected life years 3.5 3 3 3 3 Volatility of competitors % pa N A N A N A 17.059.0 N A Correlation with competitors % N A N A N A 20.0 N A 1 Expected volatility is based on an analysis of the Companys historic share price volatility over a period which is commensurate with the expected term of the options or the awards.
2 For schemes where dividends are payable on the shares during the vesting period, the dividend yield assumption in the Black-Scholes option pricing model is setatzero.
3 Two SAYE awards were made during 2018 on 23 March and 21 September, the assumptions for which are shown in the table above as the first and second figures, respectively.
4 The awards made under the Executive Performance Share Plan are dependent upon earnings growth in the Company two-thirds of the award and a total shareholder return of a comparator group of companies one-third of the award.
This results in having two fair values for each of the awards made in the table above, the first being in relation to the comparator total shareholder return which is a market-based performance condition and so valued using a Monte-Carlo simulation, and the second relating to the Companys earnings growth, which is a non-market-based performance condition and so valued using the Black-Scholes model.
5 The awards made under the Executive Performance Share Plan for members of the Executive Board Committee ExBo are subject to a two-year holding period once the award has vested.
This results in discounted fair values for the ExBo population of 519.8 1,002.5 2017: 571.9 966.8 to reflect the reduced marketability of the awards.
6 The fair value of the grants made under the Associate Partner Plan has been determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model.
This is the most appropriate valuation method because the value of the services that the Partners and advisers are providing, for which they are being remunerated via the plan, cannot be readily separated from the overall value of the services provided by the Partners and advisers.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 199 SHARE OPTION SCHEMES Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2018 2017 2017 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted options average options average exercise price exercise price SAYE Plan Outstanding at start of year 1,148,540 7.73 1,030,703 7.28 Granted 563,553 8.97 415,590 8.33 Forfeited 89,718 8.30 86,990 7.35 Exercised 280,309 7.34 210,763 6.77 Outstanding at end of year 1,342,066 8.27 1,148,540 7.73 Exercisable at end of year 66,005 7.24 451 6.77 Partner Share Options Outstanding at start of year 19,100 4.55 Granted Forfeited Exercised 19,100 4.55 Outstanding at end of year Exercisable at end of year Partner Performance Share Plan Outstanding at start of year 3,380,289 0.15 3,380,289 0.15 Granted Forfeited 52,893 0.15 Exercised Outstanding at end of year 3,327,396 0.15 3,380,289 0.15 Exercisable at end of year Partner & Adviser Chartered Plan Outstanding at start of year 1,947,000 0.15 1,986,648 0.15 Granted Forfeited 59,000 0.15 39,648 0.15 Exercised Outstanding at end of year 1,888,000 0.15 1,947,000 0.15 Exercisable at end of year Associate Partner Plan Outstanding at start of year 4,725,000 10.83 Granted 1,422,500 11.35 4,805,000 10.83 Forfeited 167,500 10.92 80,000 10.83 Exercised Outstanding at end of year 5,980,000 10.95 4,725,000 10.83 Exercisable at end of year The average share price during the year was 1,121.9 pence 2017: 1,142.0 pence.
The SAYE Plan options outstanding at 31 December 2018 had exercise prices of 738 pence 438 options, 724 pence 65,567 options, 687pence 380,279 options, 844 pence 352,442 options, 911 pence 322,015 options and 906 pence 221,325 options, and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.5 years.
The options outstanding under the Partner Performance Share Plan and the Partner & Adviser Chartered Plan at 31 December 2018 had an exercise price of 15 pence and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.6 years.
The options outstanding under the Associate Partner Plan at 31 December 2018 had an exercise price of 1,083 pence and 1,135 pence and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.4 years.
co. uk 200 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 19.
Share-based payments continued SHARE AWARDS All shares awards under the below schemes have exercise prices of nil.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Number of Number of options options Share Incentive Plan Outstanding at start of year 30,283 27,256 Granted 8,166 7,100 Forfeited 716 871 Exercised 2,724 3,202 Outstanding at end of year 35,009 30,283 Exercisable at end of year 8,858 7,125 Executive Deferred Bonus Scheme Outstanding at start of year 2,034,801 1,833,436 Granted 794,750 694,149 Forfeited 33,063 4,634 Exercised 664,074 488,150 Outstanding at end of year 2,132,414 2,034,801 Exercisable at end of year Executive Performance Share Plan Outstanding at start of year 2,973,806 2,953,269 Granted 1,101,308 961,106 Forfeited 137,997 24,772 Exercised 686,471 915,797 Outstanding at end of year 3,250,646 2,973,806 Exercisable at end of year 349,380 404,620 Restricted Share Plan Outstanding at start of year 158,916 321,860 Granted Forfeited 3,600 24,768 Exercised 138,176 Outstanding at end of year 155,316 158,916 Exercisable at end of year EARLY EXERCISE ASSUMPTIONS An allowance has been made for the impact of early exercise once options have vested in the SAYE Plan where all option holders are assumed to exercise half-way through the six-month exercise window.
ALLOWANCE FOR PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS The Executive Performance Share Plan includes a market-based performance condition based on the Companys total shareholder return relative to an index of comparator companies.
The impact of this performance condition has been modelled using Monte Carlo simulation techniques, which involve running many thousands of simulations of future share price movements for both the Company and the comparator index.
For the purpose of these simulations it is assumed that the share price of the Company and the comparator index are 20% 2017: 20% correlated and that the comparator index has volatilities ranging between 14% p. a. to 57% p. a.
The performance condition is based on the Companys performance relative to the comparator index over a three-year period commencing on1 January each year.
The fair value calculations for the awards that were made in 2018 therefore include an allowance for the actual performance of the Companys share price relative to the index over the period between 1 January 2018 and the various award dates.
CHARGE TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The table below sets out the charge to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in respect of the share-based payment awards: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Equity-settled share-based payment expense 33.4 30.5 Cash-settled share-based payment expense 0.7 2.2 Total share-based payment expense 34.1 32.7 ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 201 LIABILITIES RECOGNISED IN THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION The liabilities recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of the cash-settled share-based payment awards, and national insurance obligations arising from share-based payment awards, are as follows.
These liabilities are included within other payables on the face of the statement of financial position.
None of the liability in respect of cash-settled share-based payment awards at 31 December 2018 or 31December 2017 is in respect of vested cash-settled share-based payments.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Liability for cash-settled share-based payments 1.3 1.8 Liability for employer national insurance contributions on cash-settled and equity-settled share-based payments 4.8 5.1 20.
Interests in unconsolidated entities UNCONSOLIDATED STRUCTURED ENTITIES The Group operates investment vehicles, such as unit trusts.
Clients are able to invest in these directly, but also indirectly through products offered by SJPUK and SJPI.
As a result, the Groups insurance companies can be significant investors in the unit trusts.
Note 2 sets out the judgements inherent in determining when the Group controls, and therefore consolidates, the relevant investment vehicles.
The majority of the risk from a change in the value of the Groups investment in unconsolidated unit trusts is matched by a change in unit holder liabilities.
The maximum exposure to loss, prior to considering unit holder liabilities, is equal to the carrying value of the investment.
This is recognised within investments in Collective Investment Schemes.
The following unit trusts are not consolidated within the Group financial statements: however, the Group does act as the fund manager of these unit trusts.
Net asset value as at % of ownership interest 31December Nature of Measurement 2018 2017 relationship method 2018 2017 Name of entity Million Million St. Jamess Place Property Unit Trust 0.00 0.00 Manager of N A 1,325.5 1,205.7 unit trust St. Jamess Place UK High Income Unit 10.91 10.65 Manager of Fair value through 1,312.5 1,835.3 Trust unit trust profit or loss 2,638.0 3,041.0 As at 31 December 2018 the value of the Groups interests in the individual unconsolidated unit trusts were nil 2017:nil in St. Jamess Place Property Unit Trust and 143.2million 2017:195.5million in St. Jamess Place UK High Income Unit Trust.
ASSOCIATES The St. Jamess Place UK High Income Unit Trust, registered in England and Wales, is not consolidated within the Group financial statements: however, it does meet the criteria of an associate.
Details are provided in the table above.
Subsidiary undertakings PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES: 1 Investment Holding Companies Cirenco Limited 1 St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Group Limited 1 St. Jamess Place DFM Holdings Limited Life Assurance St. Jamess Place UK plc 2 St. Jamess Place International plc incorporated in Ireland Unit Trust Management St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited Unit Trust Administration and ISA Management St. Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited Distribution St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc 3 Management Services St. Jamess Place Management Services Limited Treasury Company St. Jamess Place Partnership Services Limited IFA Acquisitions St. Jamess Place Acquisition Services Limited Asia Distribution St. Jamess Place International Distribution Limited Discretionary Fund Management Rowan Dartington & Co. Limited 1 Directly held by St. Jamess Place plc 2 The Company also operates a branch in Singapore 3 The Company also operates a branch in the Republic of Ireland The Company owns either directly or indirectly 100% of the voting ordinary equity share capital of the above-named subsidiaries, as such they have been appropriately consolidated.
Ongoing solvency requirements within the life assurance, unit trust and financial services companies of the Group restrict their ability to distribute all their distributable reserves.
co. uk 202 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 21.
Subsidiary undertakings continued Included below is a full list of the entities within the St. Jamess Place plc Group at 31 December 2018: Company Audit Entity number Registered office Country of incorporation Principal activity exemption BFS Financial Services Limited 04609753 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Cabot Portfolio Nominees Limited 03636010 Colston Tower, Colston England and Wales Nominee Company Yes Street, Bristol BS1 4RD, United Kingdom Cirenco Limited 01773177 England and Wales Holding Company Yes Dartington Portfolio Nominees Limited 01489542 Colston Tower, Colston England and Wales Nominee Company Yes Street, Bristol BS1 4RD, United Kingdom Future Proof Limited 07608319 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Hale Financial Solutions Limited 04373946 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Lansdown Place Group Holdings Limited 06390547 2 Oakfield Road, Clifton, England and Wales Holding Company Yes Bristol, BS8 2AL, UnitedKingdom Lansdown Place Wealth Management 05458948 2 Oakfield Road, Clifton, England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Limited Bristol, BS8 2AL, UnitedKingdom Linden House Financial Services Limited 02990295 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Linden House Group Limited 08464570 England and Wales Holding Company Yes LP Auto Enrolment Solutions Limited 08257531 2 Oakfield Road, Clifton, England and Wales Pension Yes Bristol, BS8 2AL, Auto-enrolment UnitedKingdom LP Financial Management Limited 02195886 2 Oakfield Road, Clifton, England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Bristol, BS8 2AL, UnitedKingdom LP Holdco Limited 08323278 England and Wales Holding Company No M. H. S. Holdings Limited 00559995 England and Wales Non-trading Yes M. S. Estates and Financial Services Limited 02224813 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Rowan Dartington & Co. Limited 02752304 England and Wales Stockbroker and No Investment Manager Rowan Dartington Holdings Limited 07470226 England and Wales Holding Company Yes SJP AESOP Trustees Limited 04089795 England and Wales Nominee Company Yes SJP Interim Services Limited 10735786 England and Wales Non-trading Yes SJP Partner Loans No.
1 Limited 11390901 Level 37, 25 Canada England and Wales Securitisation No Square, Canary Wharf, London, E145LQ, United Kingdom SJPC Corporate Investments Limited 01476292 England and Wales Holding Company Yes St. Jamess Place Hong Kong Limited 275275 1st Floor, Henley Building, Hong Kong Overseas Distribution No 5 Queens Road Central, HongKong ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 203 Company Audit Entity number Registered office Country of incorporation Principal activity exemption St. Jamess Place PCP Limited 02706684 England and Wales Transacts and Services Yes SJP Income Streams St. Jamess Place Shanghai Limited 913100005 Suite 2006-2007, 20th China Overseas Distribution No 66573326L Floor, Tower 1 North, Jing An Kerry Centre, 1515 West Nanjing Road, Shanghai, China 200040 St. Jamess Place Singapore Private 200406398R 1 Raffles Place, Singapore Financial Advice No Limited #15-61One Raffles Place, Tower 2, Singapore 048616, Singapore St. Jamess Place Acquisition Services 07730835 England and Wales IFA Acquisitions Yes Limited St. Jamess Place Client Solutions Limited 05487108 England and Wales Policy Administration Yes St. Jamess Place Corporate Secretary 09131866 England and Wales Corporate Secretary Yes Limited St. Jamess Place DFM Holdings Limited 09687687 England and Wales Non-trading Yes St. Jamess Place International 2207694 Unit 201, 2nd Floor Henley Hong Kong Life Assurance No HongKong Limited Building, 5 Queens Road Central, Hong Kong St. Jamess Place International Assurance 02727326 England and Wales Holding Company No Group Limited St. Jamess Place International Distribution 08798683 England and Wales Holding Company Yes Limited St. Jamess Place International plc 185345 Fleming Court, Flemings Ireland Life Assurance No Place, Dublin 4, Ireland St. Jamess Place Investment 08764231 England and Wales Unit Trust No Administration Limited Administration and ISAManager St. Jamess Place Management Services 02661044 England and Wales Management Services No Limited St. Jamess Place Nominees Limited 08764214 England and Wales Nominee Company Yes St. Jamess Place Partnership Services 08201211 England and Wales Treasury Company No Limited St. Jamess Place UK plc 02628062 England and Wales Life Assurance No St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited 00947644 England and Wales Unit Trust Management No St. Jamess Place Wealth Management 06604824 England and Wales Securities and No PCIS Limited FuturesFirm St. Jamess Place Wealth Management 1511517 1st Floor, Henley Building, Hong Kong Overseas Distribution No Shanghai Limited 5 Queens Road Central, HongKong St. Jamess Place Wealth Management 02627518 England and Wales Holding Company No Group Limited St. Jamess Place Wealth Management 201323453N 1 Raffles Place, #15- Singapore Holding Company No International Pte.
Ltd 61 One Raffles Place, Singapore 048616, Singapore St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc 04113955 England and Wales UK Distribution No Stafford House Investments Limited 03866935 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Technical Connection Limited 03178474 England and Wales Tax and Advisory Yes Services Indicates that the registered office is St. Jamess Place House, 1 Tetbury Road, Cirencester, Gloucestershire GL7 1FP, United Kingdom.
co. uk 204 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 21.
Subsidiary undertakings continued Future Proof Limited was acquired by the Group on 13 November 2018.
The following wholly-owned subsidiary companies were dissolved during the year: G. M. B.
Financial Services Limited on 27 March 2018 : Chapman Associates Limited on 3 April 2018 : St. Jamess Place Properties Limited on 8 May 2018 : Chapman Hunter Group Limited on 24 July 2018 : PFPTime Limited on 31 July 2018 : Australian Expatriate Services Limited on 26 October 2018 : and St. Jamess Place EIS Limited on 18 December 2018.
Where indicated above, subsidiaries of St. Jamess Place plc have taken advantage, or are expected to take advantage, of the exemption from statutory audit granted by section 479A of the Companies Act 2006.
In accordance with section 479C, St. Jamess Place plc has guaranteed all the outstanding liabilities as at 31 December 2018 of these companies, with the exception of Lansdown Place Group Holdings Limited, LP Financial Management Limited, Lansdown Place Wealth Management Limited and LP Auto Enrolment Solutions Limited where LP Holdco Limited has guaranteed all the outstanding liabilities as at 31 December 2018.
All Group companies have an accounting reference date of 31 December except Future Proof Limited which has an accounting reference date of 12 November.
Future Proof Limited intends to take advantage of the exemption from statutory audit granted by section 477 of the Companies Act 2006s for the period ended 12 November 2018 as it meets applicable criteria and during that period was not a part of the Group.
Unless otherwise stated, the tax residency of each subsidiary is the same as the country of incorporation.
100% of the equity share capital is held for the above subsidiaries with the exception of: a L P Holdco Limited 08323278, where 43.14% of equity share capital is held comprising 100% of the nominal value of the Class A ordinary shares, which confer 52.83% of voting rights along with the 75.62% holding of the nominal value of the Class C ordinary shares, which carry voting rights but are not defined as equity : b L ansdown Place Group Holdings Limited 06390547, where 92.40% of the equity share capital is held by LP Holdco Limited comprising 95.29% of the nominal value of the Class A ordinary shares, 100.00% of the nominal value of the Class B and D ordinary shares, and 70.11% of the nominal value of the Class C shares : and c S JP Partner Loans No.
1 Limited 11390901, where 100% of the equity share capital is held by a third-party entity outside of the Group.
Despite this, following an assessment of control in accordance with IFRS 10 it was determined that SJP Partner Loans No.
1 Limited is controlled by the Group and thus is consolidated.
For further information, refer to Note 2.
Note that all assets and liabilities of SJP Partner Loans No.
1 Limited are restricted and ring-fenced from the other assets and liabilities of the Group.
In addition, the Group financial statements consolidate the following unit trusts, all of which are registered in England and Wales.
The registered address of the unit trust manager, St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited, is St. Jamess Place House, 1 Tetbury Road, Cirencester, Gloucestershire GL7 1FP: St. Jamess Place Adventurous Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Adventurous International Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Smaller Companies Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Allshare Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Alternative Assets Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Greater European Progressive Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Asia Pacific Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Index Linked Gilts Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Balanced Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place International Corporate Bond Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Balanced International Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place International Equity Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Balanced Managed Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Investment Grade Corporate Bond Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Conservative Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Japan Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Conservative International Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Managed Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Continental European Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Money Market Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Corporate Bond Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Multi Asset Unit Trust 1 St. Jamess Place Diversified Assets FAIF Unit Trust St. Jamess Place North American Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Diversified Bond Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Strategic Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Emerging Markets Equity Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Strategic Managed Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Equity Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Sustainable & Responsible Equity Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Equity A Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK & General Progressive Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Equity B Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK & International Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Equity C Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK Absolute Return Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Gilts Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Emerging Markets Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Equity Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Worldwide Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Equity Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Worldwide Opportunities Unit Trust 1 Denotes a unit trust launched during 2018.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 205 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS C ON T I N U E D 22.
Related party transactions TRANSACTIONS WITH ST. JAMESS PLACE UNIT TRUSTS In respect of the non-consolidated St. Jamess Place managed unit trusts that are held as investments in the St. Jamess Place life and pension funds, there were losses recognised of 36.2million 2017: income 10.9million and the total value of transactions with those non-consolidated unit trusts was 26.1million 2017:38.0million.
Net management fees receivable from these unit trusts amounted to 12.2million 2017:15.4million.
The value of the investment into the non-consolidated unit trusts at 31 December 2018 was 143.2million 2017:195.5million.
These transactions are all with the Groups associate, as set out in Note 20.
TRANSACTIONS WITH KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL Key management personnel have been defined as the Board of Directors and members of the Executive Board.
The remuneration paid totheBoard of Directors of St. Jamess Place plc is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 120 to 137, in addition to the disclosure below.
The Remuneration Report also sets out transactions with the Directors under the Groups share-based payment schemes, together with details of the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company.
Compensation of key management personnel is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Short-term employee benefits 5.9 7.4 Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.5 Share-based payment 4.5 6.6 Total 10.9 14.5 The total value of Group FUM held by related parties of the Group as at 31 December 2018 was 24.7million 2017:36.1million.
The total value of St. Jamess Place plc dividends paid to related parties of the Group during the year was 1.2million 2017:1.4million.
Commission, advice fees and remuneration of 3.6million 2017:3.9million was paid, under normal commercial terms, to St. Jamess Place advisers and employees who were related parties by virtue of being connected persons with key management personnel.
The outstanding amount payable at 31 December 2018 was 0.5million 2017:0.5million.
Outstanding at the year-end were Partner loans of 4.2million 2017:3.3million due from St. Jamess Place advisers who were related parties by virtue of being connected persons with key management personnel.
The Group either advanced, or guaranteed, these loans.
Duringthe year 3.2million 2017:3.7million was advanced and 0.5million 2017:2.1million was repaid by advisers who were related parties.
Due to changes in related parties during 2018, a loan of 1.9million which was a loan to a related party at 31 December 2017 became a loan toa non-related party.
Business loans to Partners are interest-bearing linked to Bank of England base rate plus a margin, repayable on demand and secured againstthe future renewal income streams of that adviser.
Interest of 0.1million was received during 2018 2017:0.1million.
At the start of the year, related parties of key management personnel held 31,017 2017: 28,273 shares and options under various St. Jamess Place plc share option schemes.
During the year 2,500 2017: 10,000 shares and options were granted, nil 2017: 1,000 options lapsed and nil 2017: nil options were exercised.
Post balance sheet events On 1 January 2019, the Group entered into a lease for new office accommodation in London.
The lease term is 15 years and the annual rent is3.8million, subject to review every five years.
co. uk 206 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARD 101 Parent Company Statement of Financial Position............................................. 207 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity............................................. 207 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements........................................ 208 ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 207 PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Registered number: 03183415 As at As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note Million Million Investment in subsidiaries 2 508.0 406.0 Current assets Amounts owed by Group undertakings 6 793.7 606.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 0.1 Current liabilities Corporation tax liabilities 2.0 2.3 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 6 189.4 188.5 Other payables 0.1 0.1 Net current assets 602.3 415.3 Net assets 1,110.3 821.3 Equity Share capital 3 79.4 79.4 Share premium 174.5 171.7 Share option reserve 193.9 160.5 Miscellaneous reserves 0.1 0.1 Retained earnings 662.4 409.6 Total shareholders funds 1,110.3 821.3 In publishing the Parent Company financial statements, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form part of these financial statements.
The Company is not required to present a statement of comprehensive income.
The Companys profit after tax for the financial year was 495.5million 2017:305.0million which can be seen in the statement of changes in equity on page 207.
The financial statements on pages 207 to 212 were approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2019 and signed on its behalf by: ANDREW CROFT CRAIG GENTLE Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer The Notes and information on pages 208 to 212 form part of these financial statements.
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Total Share Share Share option Miscellaneous Retained shareholders capital premium reserve reserves earnings funds Note Million Million Million Million Million Million At 1 January 2017 79.1 164.5 130.0 0.1 294.6 668.3 Profit and total comprehensive income for the year 305.0 305.0 Dividends 5 190.0 190.0 Issue of share capital 3 0.1 4.1 4.2 Exercise of options 3 0.2 3.1 3.3 Cost of share options expensed in subsidiaries 30.5 30.5 At 31 December 2017 79.4 171.7 160.5 0.1 409.6 821.3 Profit and total comprehensive income for the year 495.5 495.5 Dividends 5 242.7 242.7 Exercise of options 3 2.8 2.8 Cost of share options expensed in subsidiaries 33.4 33.4 At 31 December 2018 79.4 174.5 193.9 0.1 662.4 1,110.3 As at 31 December 2018 the total distributable reserves of the Company were 662.4million 2017:409.6million.
Information on the Companys dividend policy can be found within Note 5 on page 211.
The Notes and information on pages 208 to 212 form part of these financial statements.
co. uk 208 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Accounting policies BASIS OF PREPARATION St. Jamess Place plc the Company is a limited liability company incorporated in England and Wales, domiciled in the United Kingdom and whose shares are publicly traded.
The Company offers a range of insurance, investment and other wealth management services through its subsidiaries, which are incorporated in the UK, Ireland and Asia.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, on a going concern basis and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies using FRS 101.
The preparation of financial statements in compliance with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in applying the Companys accounting policies.
No significant accounting judgements have been made.
ADOPTION OF AMENDED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS The Annual Improvements 2014-2016 cycle were adopted by the Company as of 1 January 2018.
This has not had any material impact on the Companys financial statements.
ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and associated amendments to various other standards was adopted by the Company as of 1 January 2018.
This resulted in changes to accounting policies and the reclassification certain financial assets.
In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 9, comparative figures have not been restated.
Classification and measurement of financial instruments On the date of initial application of IFRS 9, being 1 January 2018, amounts owed by Group undertakings of 606.1million and cash and cash equivalents of 0.1million were reclassified from the loans and receivables measurement category under IAS 39 to amortised cost under IFRS9.
The business model for these assets is to hold and collect or sell, and the contractual cash flows consist solely of payments of principal and interest.
There was no difference between the previous carrying amount under IAS 39 and the revised carrying amount under IFRS 9, no change to the underlying accounting treatment, and the reclassification had no impact on the Companys equity.
FRS 101 REDUCED DISCLOSURE EXEMPTIONS The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101: the requirements of paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: the requirements of paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements to present comparative information in respect of paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1: the requirements of paragraphs 10 d, 10 f, 16, 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D, 111 and 134-136 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors: the requirements of paragraph 17 and 18A of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of agroup, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member: and the requirements of paragraphs 130 f ii, 130 f iii, 134 d to 134 f and 135 c to 135 e of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, provided that equivalent disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements of the group in which the entity is consolidated.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 209 GOING CONCERN The Company is a non-trading investment holding company which has positive net assets.
The Board believes the Company will continue to be in business, with neither the intention nor the necessity of liquidation, ceasing trading or seeking protection from creditors pursuant to laws or regulations for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the Company financial statements.
As a result, the Company continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The following principal accounting policies have been applied consistently to all the years presented.
a Investment return Investment return comprises dividends from subsidiaries, which are accounted for when received.
b Taxation Taxation is based on profits and income for the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, together with adjustments to provisions for prior years.
c Investment in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost stated after any impairment losses, plus the cost of equity-settled share awards granted by the Company of its own shares.
d Receivables Receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost less impairment losses.
e Amounts owed to Group undertakings Amounts owed to Group undertakings initially are recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost.
f Impairment losses Non-financial assets not ready to use are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over their value.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
co. uk 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C ON T I N U E D 2.
Investment in subsidiaries Impairment Cost Share awards provision Net book value Million Million Million Million At 1 January 2017 269.4 130.0 23.9 375.5 Movements in the year Share awards granted 30.5 30.5 At 31 December 2017 269.4 160.5 23.9 406.0 Movements in the year Share awards granted 33.4 33.4 Share capital injection 68.6 68.6 At 31 December 2018 338.0 193.9 23.9 508.0 The carrying value of the investments has been tested for impairment.
The investments are supported by the value in use of the subsidiaries.
The investment in subsidiaries net book value is broken down as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Group Limited 87.6 87.6 Cirenco Limited 157.9 157.9 St. Jamess Place DFM Holdings Limited 68.6 Directly held investments 314.1 245.5 St. Jamess Place Management Services Limited 145.3 130.6 St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc 45.0 27.4 St. Jamess Place International plc 0.1 0.1 Rowan Dartington & Co Limited 3.3 2.2 Stafford House Investments Limited 0.2 0.2 Investments held due to share awards granted 193.9 160.5 Total 508.0 406.0 3.
Called-up share capital Number of Called-up ordinary shares share capital Million At 1 January 2017 527,482,348 79.1 Issue of share capital 372,325 0.1 Exercise of options 1,223,223 0.2 At 31 December 2017 529,077,896 79.4 Exercise of options 375,501 At 31 December 2018 529,453,397 79.4 The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 605million 2017: 605million, with a par value of 15 pence per share 2017: 15 pence per share.
The Company received consideration of 2.8million 2017:7.5million for the shares issued during the year.
Auditors remuneration The total audit fee in respect of the Group is set out in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements on page 169.
The audit fee charged to the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 is 1,120 2017:1,000, which is borne by another entity within the Group.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 211 5.
Dividends The following dividends have been paid by the Company: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 Pence per share Pence per share Million Million Final dividend in respect of previous financial year 27.45 20.67 145.0 108.8 Interim dividend in respect of current financial year 18.49 15.41 97.7 81.2 Total dividends 45.94 36.08 242.7 190.0 The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 29.73 pence per share 2017: 27.45 pence.
This amounts to 157.4million 2017:145.0million and will, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, be paid on 24 May 2019 to those shareholders on the register as at 5 April 2019. DIVIDEND RESOURCES The Companys expected dividend policy is based on a pay-out ratio to Underlying cash of 80%.
The capacity of the Company to make dividend payments to shareholders is determined by the availability of distributable reserves and cash resources.
DISTRIBUTABLE RESERVES The Company is a non-trading investment holding company which derives its distributable reserves from dividends paid by its subsidiaries.
The primary subsidiary which pays dividends to the Company is St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Group Limited, an intermediate holding company which in turn receives dividends primarily from St. Jamess Place UK plc, St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited andSt.
Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited.
Ongoing solvency requirements within the life assurance, unit trust and financial services companies of the Group limit their ability to distribute all their distributable reserves.
Analysis of solvency requirements is included inthe Solvency section of the Financial Review on page 44 and further information about regulation and capital requirements is included in Note17 to the consolidated financial statements on page 194.
The Directors review the distributable reserves of the Company ahead of each interim and final dividend being proposed to ensure the Company has sufficient distributable reserves to allow a lawful dividend to be paid.
As at 31 December 2018, the total distributable reserves ofthe Company were 662.4million 2017:409.6million.
The Directors are satisfied that this is sufficient to support the proposed dividend of 157.4million.
CASH RESOURCES The shareholder cash resources within the Group at 31 December 2018 were 248.5million 2017:274.4million as set out in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
These cash resources are held by the operating entities within the Group.
The cash generated by the Group during the year was 309.0million on an Underlying cash basis 2017:281.2million and 268.7million on a Cash basis 2017:252.6million as set out in the Financial Review on page 36.
Under both bases the cash generated during the year is sufficient to cover the total proposed dividend for 2018 of 255.1million.
The Cash and Underlying cash bases should not be confused with the IFRS statement of cash flows, which is presented in accordance with IAS 7 on page 157.
Related party transactions and balances At the year end the following related party balances existed, in addition to the investments in subsidiaries which are set out in Note 2 to the Parent Company financial statements.
31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Intra-group debtors St. Jamess Place Partnership Services Limited 793.7 606.1 Total 793.7 606.1 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Million Million Intra-group creditors Cirenco Limited 189.4 188.5 Total 189.4 188.5 The intra-group debtors are loans granted by the Company which are unsecured and repayable on demand.
The loans incur interest at an agreed rate above the Bank of England's base rate, as stated in the loan agreements.
co. uk 212 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C ON T I N U E D 6.
Related party transactions and balances continued During the year, the Company received 483.8million 2017:304.0million of dividends from subsidiary undertakings.
The total value of St. Jamess Place FUM held by related parties of the Company as at 31 December 2018 was 24.7million 2017:36.1million.
The total value of dividends paid to related parties of the Company during the year was 1.2million 2017:1.4million.
The following wholly-owned subsidiaries of St. Jamess Place plc have taken advantage of the exemption from statutory audit granted by section 479A of the Companies Act 2006.
In accordance with section 479C, St. Jamess Place plc has therefore guaranteed all the outstanding liabilities as at 31 December 2018 of: BFS Financial Services Limited 04609753 Cabot Portfolio Nominees Limited 03636010 Cirenco Limited 01773177 Dartington Portfolio Nominees Limited 01489542 Future Proof Limited 07608391 Hale Financial Solutions Limited 04373946 Lansdown Place Group Holdings Limited 06390547 Lansdown Place Wealth Management Limited 05458948 Linden House Financial Services Limited 02990295 Linden House Group Limited 08464570 LP Auto Enrolment Solutions Limited 08257531 LP Financial Management Limited 02195886 M. H. S. Holdings Limited 00559995 M. S. Estates and Financial Services Limited 02224813 Rowan Dartington Holdings Limited 07470226 SJP AESOP Trustees Limited 04089795 SJP Interim Services Limited 10735786 SJPC Corporate Investments Limited 01476292 St. Jamess Place PCP Limited 02706684 St. James's Place Acquisition Services Limited 07730835 St. James's Place Client Solutions Limited 05487108 St. James's Place Corporate Secretary Limited 09131866 St. Jamess Place DFM Holdings Limited 09687687 St. James's Place International Distribution Limited 08798683 St. James's Place Nominees Limited 08764214 Stafford House Investments Limited 03866935 Technical Connection Limited 03178474 7.
Directors emoluments The Directors responsibilities relate primarily to the trading companies of the Group and accordingly their costs are charged to those companies and none are met by the Parent Company.
Disclosure of the Directors emoluments is made within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 120 to 137.
Company information In the opinion of the Directors there is not considered to be any ultimate controlling party.
Copies of the consolidated financial statements ofSt.
Jamess Place plc may be obtained from the Company Secretary, St. Jamess Place plc, St. Jamess Place House, 1 Tetbury Road, Cirencester, Gloucestershire, GL7 1FP.
