CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED STRATEGY Our strategy is to progressively increase our share of the markets in which we operate through organic growth, and to build a robust, sustainable and profitable business.
We will achieve this by growing our Partner network and making it easier for them to promote our services more effectively, through maintaining our focus on delivering best-in-class service and support to our Members, treating them fairly and investing in our systems and staff.
We will seek to simplify and, where possible, improve the competitiveness of our services even further, encouraging existing Members to talk about the unique benefits we offer to their friends and acquaintances.
To this end, we have recently introduced an enhanced new CashBack card which offers savings to Members wherever they shop, rather than solely at a limited number of major retail partners: since announcing this benefit at our annual sales conference in March, we have seen the proportion of new Members applying for a CashBack card increase.
We continue to explore the possibility of expanding our current range of core services into areas where we can build upon our existing strong relationship with our Members by offering them both a better experience and better value on services they currently obtain from other suppliers, whilst also delivering a satisfactory return for our shareholders.
This approach is demonstrated by the successful initial roll-out of our new Home Insurance service, which we anticipate will be supplemented by a range of other insurance products in due course - starting with a Home Care policy later this year.
In the medium to longer term, potential new services include water and television, and combining the national rollout of smart meters with other connected home products and services to leverage our position as the only fully integrated multi-utility supplier in the country.
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE AND NON-FINANCIAL KPIs Despite a challenging competitive environment, our overall performance for the year has been encouraging in a number of key respects: continuing organic growth with service numbers up by 52,000 2017: 107,214 reduced churn against a background of record levels of energy switching materially higher proportion of Members now taking our Double Gold bundle over 75,000 Home Insurance renewal dates captured from Members lower unit fulfilment costs for our free LED light bulb replacement service Best T elecom Services Provider at annual Which?
Awards 2017 Best Utilities Provider at annual Which?
#1 rated provider for Mobile April 2018 Which?
#1 rated provider for Energy January 2018 Which?
Recommended Provider for Broadband March 2018 consistently high Net Promoter Scores 14 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018
