Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 28 Financial statements Financial Review 2018 RESULTS inairborne platform sales and airborne Revenue of 766.7m represented a return to EW and strategic missile programmes.
This followed on from the strong order intake at organic growth for the first time since 2011. the end of 2017.
In the UK, revenues were impacted by continued uncertainty and AMITABH SHARMA BSC FCA government contracting delays within the Group Finance Director secure comms and information assurance markets.
Our US cyber solutions revenues also reduced as discretionary US Naval funding was allocated elsewhere.
The overall revenue growth more than offset the foreign exchange reduction to the divisions reported results.
Maritime & Land's revenue see pages 1617 grew organically, but declined overall due to the Ultras 2018 results impact of foreign exchange.
Demand for Ultras Revenue international and US sonobuoys remains healthy Revenue of 766.7m represented a return to and our ERAPSCO JV continues to have a strong organic growth for the first time since 2011.
The working relationship with the US Navy.
2.2% organic growth reflected increases in our Revenues on the maritime propulsion system US and international sonobuoy revenues and order that was won in 2017 also contributed to demand for our radio and Air Defense Systems revenue in the year.
However, there have been Integrator ADSI products by the US military.
delays to some programmes resulting in lower Reported revenue declined 1.1% to 766.7m revenue on receivers, as well as reduced compared to prior year revenue of 775.4m datacom and sonar shipments where a number IFRS 15: 768.3m.
This was due to the organic of projects completed in 2017. revenue growth of 2.2% being offset by the strengthening of sterling during the year, Orders causing a negative foreign exchange impact of At the end of 2018 the order book was 9.6% 2.4% from the translation of overseas revenue, higher at 983.9m 2017: 897.4m, IFRS 15: and a 0.9% reduction arising from IFRS 15.
914.4m, reflecting improving defence Theaverage US dollar rate in 2018 was $1.34 budgets, notably in the US, and some key wins compared to $1.29 in 2017. on new and existing programmes.
The organic increase was 5.2%, once the impact of foreign Aerospace & Infrastructure's revenue see pages exchange and IFRS 15 adoption have been 1213 declined due to lower demand for excluded.
Opening order cover for 2019 is 66% nuclear temperature products and delayed 2018: 66%.
orders in information processing at Airport Systems, which were partially offset by an Underlying operating profit andmargins increase in thebuild rate of our high pressure Underlying operating profit was 112.7m 2017: pure air generating HiPPAG units.
There was an organic decline Communications & Securitys revenue see of 4.3%, due to the previously announced pages 1415 grew, benefiting from ORION 6.3m cost overruns at our Herley business on radio system sales for the US Army's Network specific development contracts, a 0.1% impact Modernisation programme, as well as growth of foreign exchange and IFRS 15 accounted for Alternative Performance Measures In the analysis of the Groups operating results, earnings per share and cash flows, underlying information is presented to provide readers and stakeholders with additional performance indicators that are prepared on a non-statutory basis.
These non-statutory performance measures are consistent with how business performance is reported within the internal management reporting.
See page 138 for further information.
A reconciliation is set out in note 2 between operating profit and underlying operating profit, between profit before tax and underlying profit before tax and between cash generated by operations and underlying operating cash flow.
The calculation for underlying earnings per share is set out in note 13.
The narrative includes two figures for 2017 revenue and underlying operating profit to present the result as stated last year and the result as if presented under IFRS 15.
Refer to note 37 for further information.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 29 the remaining 2.0% reduction.
The resulting underlying operating margin was 14.7% 2017: 15.5%, IFRS 15: 15.3%.
Underlying operating profit also included a 2.9m gain in the period arising from foreign exchange on US dollar assets held in the UK.
We have revised our hedging strategy under IFRS 9, with effect from 1 January 2019, as outlined in the financial guidance section on page 33, to reduce income statement volatility from the re-valuation of US dollar assets held on the UK balance sheet and a gain of this nature will not happen in future years.
Aerospace & Infrastructure underlying operating margin reduced to 15.3% 2017: 16.0%, IFRS Ultra continued its programme of R&D, with IFRS profit before tax 15: 15.8% due to lower revenue as well as total spend in 2018 of 145.8m 2017: 161.1m.
As set out in the table on the following page, product mix, with reduced high margin nuclear In 2018, company funded investment was 3.7% IFRS profit before tax decreased to 42.6m temperature revenues.
There are a higher number of while customer funding decreased to 15.3% of non-underlying items than last year and detail is Communications & Security underlying revenue at 117.7m 2017: 131.2m or 16.9%.
provided for this as follows: operating margin improved slightly to 11.8% The funding required is dependent on the type 2017: 11.6%, IFRS 15: 11.7%.
Cost overruns of and timing of engineering contracts awarded, Acquisition and disposal related costs of 2.7m 6.3m were incurred on specific development assome require Ultra to fund the development 2017: 12.8m include those remaining costs contracts at our Herley division, however, phase while others attract customer funding.
associated with the Sparton Corporation despite this, there was a slight overall The overall level of R&D investment in the year transaction that was terminated in March 2018. improvement in divisional operating margin was 19.0% 2017: 20.8%.
driven by increased Air Defence Systems The net loss on forward foreign exchange Integrator ADSI and Orion radio deliveries Interest and underlying profit before tax contracts and interest rate swap was 5.6m inthe year.
Net financing charges were 11.3m 2017: 2017: 12.0m gain.
The increase reflects higher US interest costs incurred closing out the foreign exchange Maritime & Land underlying operating margin rates and higher average borrowing, compared forward put in place as part of the Sparton declined to 16.6% 2017: 18.0%, IFRS 15: to the prior year, following the share buyback.
This was partially offset by a gain of 17.7% due to additional costs on the Health and The interest on bank debt was covered 10 times 5.5m from the mark-to-market revaluation of Usage Monitoring System HUMS program and 2017: 12 times by underlying operating profit.
the Groups foreign exchange forward contracts.
The resulting underlying profit before tax was 101.4m 2017: 110.0m.
REVENUE UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE TAX 766.7m 112.7m 101.4m -1.1% -6.2% -7.8% 2018 766.7 2018 112.7 2018 101.4 2017 775.4 2017 120.1 2017 110.0 2016 785.8 2016 131.1 2016 120.1 2015 726.3 2015 120.0 2015 112.4 2014 713.7 2014 118.1 2014 112.0 Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 30 Financial statements Financial Review continued m 2018 2017 Underlying profit before tax 101.4 110.0 Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition 28.3 28.5 Acquisition and disposal related costs 2.7 12.8 Loss gain on derivatives 5.6 12.0 Significant legal charges and expenses 2.3 8.0 S3 programme 6.5 7.8 Loss on disposal 0.7 Impairment charges 7.6 1.6 Net finance charge on defined benefit pensions 1.9 2.7 Guaranteed Minimum Pensions GMP equalisation 3.2 Reported IFRS profit before tax 42.6 60.6 Significant legal charges and expenses include 17 May 1990 to 5 April 1997.
This was The 2018 proposed 2.3m of anti-bribery and corruption followinga High Court ruling in October 2018 investigation costs.
8.0m was incurred in the against Lloyds Banking Group that impacts finaldividend of 37.0p prior year on legal charges relating to the Ithra manyUK businesses.
2017: 35.0p per share Tax, EPS and dividends isproposed to be paid Savings from the Groups S3 initiative of 19.7m The Groups underlying tax rate in the year 2017: 13.5m were realised in the period, decreased to 19.7% 2017: 21.6% owing to on9 May 2019 to whilst costs on the programme were 6.5m thereduction in the federal income tax rate 2017: 7.8m.
In 2018 costs were incurred applicable to underlying US profits, offset by shareholders on the following the decision to close additional thenew restriction of tax relief for US interest facilities and non-core product lines.
The S3 expenses, for which no deferred tax asset is register at 12 April 2019 initiative has yielded tangible benefits in terms recognised.
The statutory tax rate on IFRS profit ofcost savings, although the operational before tax was 19.0% 2017: 19.3%.
subject to approval at the efficiencies originally envisaged have yet to be Annual General Meeting.
The below the line costs associated Underlying earnings per share decreased to with the S3 programme ceased at the end of 109.5p 2017: 116.7p, reflecting the reduction 2018, but work remains to simplify our in profit.
The weighted average number of transactional processes: this will continue and shares in issue was 74.4m 2017: 74.0m.
Basic there remain opportunities for further earnings per share decreased to 43.6p operational improvements in the future.
During the period, the Group spent 91.9m, to re-purchase 6.3m ordinary A 0.7m loss on disposal was incurred disposing shares at an average of 14.52 per share.
At IFRS PROFIT BEFORE TAX of our non-core Fuel Cell business from the 31 December 2018 the number of shares in issue Maritime & Land division.
As at 6 March 2019 the Group spent 100m on the share buyback programme.
42.6m Impairment charges of 7.6m 2017: 1.6m include a 6.6m impairment of the infrastructure The Board has implemented a new progressive -29.7% cash generating unit goodwill following the dividend policy with a through cycle target of previously disclosed agreement to dispose of the circa two times normalised cash and earnings 2018 42.6 Airport Systems business for 22.0m, and a cover.
This progressive policy is a signal of 1.0m impairment of an intangible asset relating confidence in the future of Ultra.
The 2018 2017 60.6 to a non-core product line that was closed in the proposed final dividend of 37.0p 2017: 35.0p Maritime & Land division in the year.
per share is proposed to be paid on 9 May 2019 2016 67.6 to shareholders on the register at 12 April 2019 A 3.2m charge was incurred in relation to subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting.
2015 34.8 Guaranteed Minimum Pensions GMP This will result in a final full year dividend of equalisation of the UK defined benefit pension 51.6p 2017: 49.6p, which will be covered 2.12 2014 21.5 scheme benefits earned in the period times by underlying earnings per share.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 31 Operating cash flow Return on Invested Capital ROIC Seven Ultra Cash generated by operating activities was ROIC was 18.8% 2017: 19.8% and is 102.4m 2017: 97.4m, reflecting increases in calculated as underlying operating profit businesses working capital.
Underlying operating cash flow expressed as a percentage of average invested was 89.3m 2017: 116.5m resulting in capital calculated as an average of the opening commenced underlying operating cash conversion of 79% and closing balance sheets.
Capital expenditure, including capital is calculated as net assets after adjusting implementations Enterprise Resource Planning ERP systems for exchange rate fluctuations adjusted for over the year, with implementation, increased to 18.3m 2017: 11.2m.
amortisation and impairment charges arising on Seven Ultra businesses commenced ERP acquired intangible assets and goodwill, and the two going live in implementations over the year, with two going add-back of other non-underlying performance live in 2018 and the others on track to go live in items, such as tax, fair value movements on 2018 and others on the first half of 2019.
Working capital increased derivatives, the S3 programme, acquisition and by 7.9m principally due to increases in inventory disposal related costs and the Ithra Oman track to go live in the work-in-progress and raw materials reflecting contract, impacting the balance sheet.
The organic revenues in the year.
Specifically, this decline relative to the prior year reflects the first half of 2019. increase was due to purchases required to reduction in underlying operating profit.
supply orders in early 2019 and purchasing requirements on essential long lead-time Borrowing facilities components.
The inventory increase was Ultras net debt at the end of the year was partially offset by an increase in payables.
157.4m 2017: 74.5m and reflected the impact of the 91.9m spent in the year to Non-operating cash flow re-purchase 6.3m ordinary shares.
The underlying operating cash flow of 89.3m 2017: 116.5m funded the Groups various The Groups committed banking facilities non-operating items.
The main non-operating amount to 526.4m in total, together with a and non-underlying cash items as set out in note 5.0m and $10.0m overdraft.
The Groups 2 and in the statutory cash flow statement were: revolving credit facility of 300m is denominated 91.9m spent on the share buy-back with in Sterling, US Dollars, Canadian Dollars, 6.3m shares repurchased.
In 2017 there was a Australian Dollars or Euros.
The facility is 137.3m inflow from the share placing and provided by a group of six international banks share options exercised in the year.
and has a committed maturity to November Dividend payments of 36.9m 2017: 35.0m.
2023, and may be extended to November 2024 Tax paid of 4.6m 2017: 10.3m.
The facility agreement A 1.5m outflow on significant legal charges permits an additional 150m accordion which and expenses relating to the anti-bribery and is uncommitted and subject to lender consent corruption investigation costs.
2017: 9.8m and can be used in certain acquisition scenarios.
on Ithra Oman related legal fees.
13.6m on acquisition and disposal related The Group holds $165m of term loan which was costs 2017: 13.0m, 11.1m of this established in May 2015: $40m is repayable on represented the close out cost of the foreign 31 March 2019, $40m on 30 June 2019 and the exchange forward contract taken out to fund remainder on 1 August 2019.
The Group also the Sparton Corporation acquisition, which has loan notes in issue to Pricoa which totalled was terminated in March 2018.
50m with an expiry date of October 2025 and 2.6m on the S3 programme 2017: 8.9m.
Agreement Consequently, net debt was 157.4m 2017:74.5m.
Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 32 Financial statements Financial Review continued The Group's net debt EBITDA was 1.25 times 2017: 0.56 times, andnet interest payableon borrowings was covered around 10xby underlying operating profit.
was reached with Pricoa in September 2018 to Interest rate management scheme deficit, calculated in accordance with issue new loan notes of $70m.
These were To reduce the risks associated with interest rate IAS19, was 59.1m 2017: 67.6m.
The present issued on 25 January 2019.
This debt will expire fluctuations and the associated volatility in value of the liabilities decreased by 18.2m to in January 2026 and January 2029. reported earnings, Ultra holds a mix of fixed rate 353.1m in 2018 primarily due to changes in and floating rate debt, as well as a $45m interest thediscount rate.
There was a 8.1m decrease As at 31 December 2018, the total borrowings rate hedging contract that expires on 30 June inscheme assets, mainly driven by decreases in drawn from the revolving facility were 20.0m 2019.
The amount of fixed-term debt and the investment values in equities.
2017: nil, giving headroom of 280.0m associated interest rate policy is kept under 2017:300.0m in addition to the 5m and regular review and the Group targets that A full actuarial assessment was carried out as $10m overdrafts.
TheGroup also held 96.3m between 40% and 60% of forecast debt is ofApril 2016, the result of which was a funding 2017: 149.5m ofcashfor working atafixed rate of interest at each year end.
deficit of 114.4m representing an increase of capitalpurposes.
14.6m from the previous funding deficit of Pensions 99.8m in April 2013.
Following the completion As well as being used to fund acquisitions, Ultra offers Company-funded retirement of the assessment, Ultra reached an agreement thefinancing facilities are also used for other benefits to all employees in its major countries with the pension scheme trustee board to balance sheet and operational needs, including ofoperation.
In the UK, the Ultra Electronics eliminate the deficit through additional deficit the funding of day-to-day working capital Limited defined benefit scheme was closed to payments over the period to March 2025 with requirements.
The US Dollar borrowings also new entrants in 2003 and closed to future 10.0m payable in 2018, 10.5m in 2019 then represent natural hedges against assets benefit accrual in 2016.
All staff who joined 11.0m per annum for the remaining period.
Details of how Ultra in the UK since the defined benefit scheme The next valuation will take place as of Ultra manages its liquidity risk can be found in was closed to new entrants have been invited to April2019.
note 22 Financial Instruments and Financial become members of the Ultra Electronics Group Risk Management.
Personal Pension Plan and, since April 2011, the The scheme has a statement of investment Ultra Electronics Group Flexible Retirement Plan.
principles which includes a specific declaration The Groups net debt EBITDA was 1.25 times Under the terms of this defined contribution on socially responsible investment.
This is 2017: 0.56 times, and net interest payable on scheme, Company payments are supplemented delegated to the investment managers.
Pension borrowings was covered 10x by underlying by contributions from employees.
management and governance is undertaken by operating profit.
the pension trustees on behalf of the members.
The Ultra Electronics Limited defined benefit The trustees include both Company-nominated The Groups main financial covenants are that scheme was a contributory scheme in which and employee-elected representatives.
The the ratio of net consolidated total borrowings theCompany made the largest element of the scheme investment strategy and the details of EBITDA is less than three, and that the net payments, which were topped up by employee the risks to which the scheme is exposed are set interest payable on borrowings is covered at contributions up until the 2016 closure of the out in note 30. least three times by EBITA.
The scheme was actuarially assessed using the projected unit method in 31 December 2018 when the net Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 33 2019 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE We are targeting an increase in our own R&D investment to between 4% and 5% of revenue compared with 3.7% last year.
The investment programme in the Groups IT infrastructure and systems will be a three to four-year operational expenditure improvement programme at a cost of c. 5m per year.
These costs are partially offset by an improvement in organic profit and we expect operating margin to remain in the mid-teens range.
The Group will regularise trade debtors and creditors during the year to reflect average working balances rather than those at period ends.
This will have a cash impact of about 46m and will be reflected in a reduced cash conversion for the year, and the first half of 2019 will likely see a net cash out-flow for the Group.
It is anticipated that cash conversion will return to the Groups historical range of 8085% in the medium term.
Certain employees at TCS in Canada participate which are denominated in foreign currencies, Year-end net debt EBITDA is expected to be in a defined benefit scheme.
This scheme is most often in US dollars.
To reduce the potential around 1.2x, reflecting the normalisation of closed to new employees and had an IAS19 net volatility, Ultra attempts to source in US dollars working capital during the year and the deficit of 0.4m at the end of the year 2017: ahigh proportion of the products sold in US disposal of Airport Systems.
Regular payments continue to be made, dollars.
For the remaining net expense, the Ultra has forward contracts in place to hedge with both Company and employees making Groups policy is to hedge forward the foreign the net US dollar cash generation of its UK contributions, so as to maintain a satisfactory currency trading exposure in order to increase businesses.
However, the balance sheet, funding position.
The expected flows are reviewed on which has carried increasing US dollar Canadian employees participate in a number aregular basis and additional layers of cover denominated assets from certain long-term ofdefined contribution pension plans.
Certain aretaken out so that, for 2019, 100% of the programmes, has not been hedged prior to employees at the Swiss subsidiary of Forensic expected exposure is covered, reducing to 44% the conversion of those assets into cash.
Technology, Projectina, also participate in a of the exposure for 2020 and 33% of the From 1 January 2019 we have revised our defined benefit pension scheme.
Exposure to other currencies hedging strategy under IFRS 9 to reduce had an IAS19 net deficit of 0.9m at is hedged as it arises on specific contracts.
income statement volatility from re-valuation 31 December 2018 2017: 0.9m.
of US dollar assets held on the UK balance Capital allocation priorities sheet.
The 2.9m gain in FY 2018 will In the US, Ultra offers a defined contribution The Group intends to take a prudent and therefore not recur.
401 k retirement benefit plan to all full-time disciplined approach to capital management Tax guidance has been updated to c. 20% employees.
Under this plan, Ultra provides with the following priorities: 2018: 21.5% reflecting changes to US participating and contributing employees with taxstructure.
matching contributions, subject to plan and 1.
Investing for sustainable growth IFRS 16 will result in a c. 1.5m increase in USInternal Revenue Service limitations.
Progressive dividend policy finance costs, partially offset by a c. 1m 3.
Efficient balance sheet increase in operating profit.
Net finance Foreign exchange risks 4.
Longer term strategic investment potential.
charges on defined benefit pensions will Ultras results are affected by both the move to become an underlying cost from translation and transaction effects of foreign 1 January 2019. currency movements.
By their nature, currency Capital Expenditure will increase to c. 25m translation risks cannot be mitigated, but the AMITABH SHARMA 2018: 18.3m due to ERP systems transaction position is actively managed.
6 March 2019 2019 will have a similar second half The majority of sales made by Ultras businesses weighting to 2018 due to the phasing are made in local currency, thus avoiding any in the Groups revenue from military transaction risk.
However, this risk does arise tactical radios for the US Armys when businesses make sales and purchases Network Modernisation programme.
The impact of Brexit is difficult to estimate with the number of different scenarios that could occur.
Please see page 35 for more commentary.
Regulators External Audit Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 34 Financial statements 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties ANALYSING AND MANAGING UNCERTAINTY The Groups strategies for growth centre on key risks within the business and oversight of Effective risk management is delivering change programmes that support how they are being managed.
The responsibility afundamental aspect of Ultra the agility of Ultras businesses, encouraging for risk oversight is principally delegated to the Electronics operating, financial an entrepreneurial culture of innovation Audit Committee with the ongoing review and in its people by having a diverse range of challenge of risk management information and governance activities.
skills and capabilities amongst the Groups provided by the Executive Team.
Ultra has a low-risk appetite The Group continually analyses the risks it in situations where its culture, reputation In June 2018, we announced that the Herley faces and assesses the effectiveness of its or financial standing may be adversely business was likely to be impacted by cost response to these risks within the control affected.
However, the Group does consider overruns on development contracts.
This means that Ultra is able to taking higher risks where the opportunity was extremely disappointing: management give early consideration to emerging risks and is seen to outweigh the potential negatives, are working to address the issues.
Actions this helps it to deliver on itscommitments, provided appropriate levels of mitigating include a review of Ultras programme and improve long-term performance and controls are in place.
Where safety may be contracting approval and management enhance its reputation in the market.
compromised, Ultra has zero tolerance to risk.
systems, and a specific Internal Audit review across a number of the businesses to assess Profitable growth cannot be achieved Risk management and internal control compliance against the contract management without some degree of considered risk The Board has overall responsibility for policies.
Other than this item, no significant and the Groups objective to generate establishing, monitoring and maintaining an failings or weaknesses have been identified.
long-term shareholder value is reflected effective system of risk management, in Ultras appetite for risk.
Ultras principal governance and internal controls.
The Board Risk management risks reflect the high priority itplaces on reviews risk as part of its annual strategy review The approach to risk management across the compliance with all legislative and regulatory process and risk management is a regular Group is to focus on the early identification of key requirements and the maintenance ofhigh feature on Board meeting agendas.
This risks thereby reducing the likelihood of the risk ethical standards across the Group, itssupply provides the Board with an appreciation of the occurring and mitigating the effect of any chain and in its dealings with its customers.
The risk management process Board and Committees Executive Team Divisions Aerospace & Infrastructure Communications & Security Maritime & Land First Line Second Line Third Line Group and Divisional oversight Independent challenge to the levels of Risk and control processes as part of assurance provided by management 'businessas usual' Group Board & Committee oversight on the effectiveness of governance, andchallenge Group Operating Manual risk management and internal setting out policies & processes Executive Team oversight and challenge controls Training and development Divisional business performance reviews Internal Audit provided by PwC Regulatory and compliance requirements Divisional Control Review meetings Other independent assurance activities Risk registers Six-monthly Compliance Reports e. g. health, safety and environment audits Culture Review of monthly Business Performance Reports including Financial Performance Co-ordination of the implementation of the Risk Management Framework Provided by Deloitte.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 35 potential impacts.
Risk Champions are employed The risk management focus in 2019 will be to: Support and development of Ultras at all levels of the business so that they have early reputation as a well-governed and trusted visibility of any emerging risks across different Continue to review and improve the organisation.
market segments and business units.
The work of effectiveness of the Risk Management the Risk Champions is supported by the following Framework and the related processes.
The key components of the Risk Management enhancements which have commenced or been Recruit a permanent Chief Risk Officer Framework are: implemented during this reporting period: toleadthe risk management function andundertake the review noted above.
Oversight structure and accountability Risk is a standing agenda item at the Board Manage the impact of Brexit if any.
The risk management oversight structure has and the Audit Committee, and the culture of Manage ongoing GDPR compliance.
been developed using the principles of the openness is enabling emerging risks to be Introduce Programme Management three lines of defence, which ensures risk is highlighted at Board level.
considered from both a top down and a bottom A deep dive review was undertaken in respect up perspective, with risk information captured at of innovation anddevelopment see page 42.
Risk Management Framework strategic, divisional and individual business levels.
This included a review ofexisting controls, The Risk Management Framework governs the comparison to industry benchmarks, approach Ultra takes to managing risk Process consideration of any changes ininternal and effectively.
The cultures and behaviours inherent The risk management process is focused on risk external factors and the organisations within Ultra see pages 1827 ensure risk identification using cause and effect analysis, response to these changes.
Theoutput of the consideration and commitment to proactively inherent pre controls and residual post reviews was an evaluation of the mitigation managing risk is embedded into the way it controls assessment, control identification and measures, reassessment of the risk and its operates.
the development and implementation of further impact on the organisations strategic mitigation strategies.
The Groups risk management process is set A watching brief is being maintained in outin the Risk Management Framework and Escalation, monitoring and reporting respect of the economic and political facilitates the achievement of the following Changes to risk exposure are notified uncertainties including Brexit in Ultras key objectives: through the governance structure as markets so that it responds effectively to the required.
Risk leads are identified for all new realities if there are potential impacts to Identification, measurement, control and risks and they have responsibility for the business.
reporting of risk that can undermine the ongoing monitoring of the effectiveness of The risk appetite metrics were reviewed and business model, future performance, solvency current controls and the progress against updated to reflect measures that provide the or liquidity of the Group.
the implementation of further mitigating organisation with a clear view on how much Allocation of resources for the management actions.
The risk reporting flow is based on a risk it is exposed to so that risks are taken of principal and emerging risks.
combination of annual, bi-annual, quarterly strategically.
Assurance from management that a particular and monthly reporting to the Board, Audit An assessment of the Groups aggregate risks risk is owned by the individual best positioned Committee, Executive Team and divisional was undertaken by the Board.
to control mitigate that risk.
Driving business improvements and provision of enhanced intelligence for key decisionmaking.
BREXIT Preparing for Brexit is a challenge due Another growth risk is that of exports that short-term growth is a risk.
While the to the different possible scenarios.
to non EU countries when EU originated UK Government is seeking to replicate the Approaching 29 March 2019 the business trade deals expire and are not immediately effects of existing EU free trade agreements focus has been to minimise the Group replaced by UK originated trade deals.
from exit day, or as soon as possible risks, particularly with No Deal becoming Until the UK Government confirms how thereafter, details are not currently fully a higher probability scenario.
Following they will replicate the effects of existing known.
With consideration to commercial review and evaluation across the Group EU free trade agreements from exit day and contractual arrangements there could the key risk areas in the context of a No this risk cannot be completely mitigated.
be some financial exposure arising from Deal Brexit are supply chain and growth.
the supply chain being unable to deliver While agreement by the Government as a result of No Deal related issues.
Focus Ultra has been working to establish Brexit of the transitional arrangements will on supply chain management is the best plans within the supply chain during 2018 be of enormous value to Ultra to avoid mitigation and the Executive Team will and continues to work with our suppliers to uncertainty, in the short term the impact examine impacts and direct Ultra businesses proactively manage Brexit interruption risk.
of Brexit is potentially three to six month in adapting to changing markets.
Given the typical timeline for project delivery delays in deliveries and the time taken UK businesses are preparing to adopt work to resolve the resultant disruption.
The Ultra continues to review the numbers of arounds such as reworking schedules to residual risk of additional tariffs and EU nationals, with the number of potentially mitigate impact where necessary.
While duties and the practicalities of border impacted employees representing no these potential work arounds have been controls resulting from No Deal require more than 3% of the UK work force.
identified, a risk remains that any delays clarification.
In the longer term, the to contracted customer deliveries arising implications for UK suppliers into the The Executive Team and the Board will from a disorderly Brexit could result in Eurozone are harder to forecast.
continue to operate a vigilant and tactical claims from customers.
The impact is approach to managing any periods of difficult to estimate with the combination While Ultra will continue to be responsive uncertainty, whilst adhering to our risk of different scenarios that could occur.
to changing markets it must be recognised management and internal control systems.
Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 36 Financial statements 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risks The Board has considered the impact of political and economic uncertainties in its major markets including Brexit and the potential risks and opportunities these may have for the Group alongside other applicable risks.
Risk Champions at Divisional and Business levels continue to proactively manage risks and these are monitored at a Group level by the Executive Team.
The Board remains focused on the effective management of risk and will oversee improvements to policies and processes during 2019.
The Groups risk exposure remains largely unchanged.
The Groups principal risks are set out below and on the following pages with details of their potential impacts, examples of the current controls andmitigation actions taken to manage the risk and an indication of whether the risk exposure is increasing, decreasing or largely unchanged.
RISK DESCRIPTION CHANGES DURING 2018 RISK 1 Although the defence market has been challenging in recent years, there Poor investment decisions leading to inadequate returns The Group is offsetting challenges in The Board conducts a rigorous review of are strong indications of a return to growth, particularly in the US, as Reduced business opportunity and loss of reputation, the UK defence market by expanding acquisition opportunities including GROWTH indicated by the Groups strong order book going into 2019.
Political and customers, market share, revenue and profit in targeted overseas regions that commissioning third party market Ultras strategic objective for year-on-year growth requires: the ability to economic circumstances in some of the Groups key markets mean that it is Specialist capabilities eroded through commoditisation exhibit long-term growth reports and due diligence.
Postrespond to changing market dynamics: the capacity to win new business optimistic about organic growth continuing.
The Companys focus in the Reduction in anticipated acquisition value through characteristics acquisition reviews are performed on all and deliver successfully against contracted customer requirements: the year continued to be on its market-facing segment strategies, improving its overpayment, non-delivery of synergies and or economies The market-facing segments enable acquisitions comprising integration development of highly differentiated solutions to address customer planning for future political and economic developments in its key markets, of scale and senior management focus diverted away from Ultra to remain competitive and use effectiveness, operational performance needs: and the ability to select, execute and integrate acquisitions and exploiting the anticipated market upturn.
During the year a deep dive delivering business as usual the capabilities of its businesses to compared to expectation and lessons effectively.
into innovation and development was undertaken see page 42. deliver enhanced solutions more learned effectively to its customers A working group reporting to the TREND: NO SIGNIFICANT CHANGE Improving the capacity and capability Executive Team has been established to of the Groups sales and marketing evaluate the impact of recent geoPgs 0609 Chief Executive Officer's teams political events on Ultra Review Establishment and implementation of The recommendations from the deep rigorous gate reviews of risk appetite dive into innovation and development for major opportunities so that will be implemented acceptable margin levels and risk tolerances are maintained The S3 programme was completed in 2018 having broadly achieved the Expected benefits of change not realised An Executive Team sponsor is allocated Experienced personnel have been RISK 2 savings target of 20m but these savings were delivered principally Significant increase in change programme costs to all major change programmes recruited to operate the shared services DELIVERING CHANGE through restructuring, onerous lease provisions and indirect procurement Senior management distraction from business as usual Effective delivery of major change programmes with minimal effect on in the UK, and so there are still significant opportunities here.
In 2019 Reduction in employee morale business as usual is a key component of Ultras continual drive for change will be dominated by investment in ERP as was the case in 2018 Disruption of business performance operational improvement.
and IT networks which represents a higher risk, as is normal for ERP programmes.
New actions have been identified to mitigate these risks.
TREND: NO SIGNIFICANT CHANGE Pg 08 Focus, Fix, Grow Ultras culture and how it is reflected across its businesses has been the Not recruiting and retaining the right employees in the Ultra continues to engage in a number Measure Employee engagement and RISK 3 subject of discussion at both the Board and Executive levels, throughout rightroles would result in Ultra being unable to fulfil its of initiatives with local schools, morale through engagement surveys.
Talent and succession planning remained a focus for the Executive contractual obligations and would lead to operational colleges and universities to gain access The leadership team use the survey to Preserving Ultras culture and attracting, developing and retaining the Team and the Board in 2018.
The recruitment of a new Chief HR Officer in inefficiencies and loss of productivity to the best people for its address any areas of concern so that right people who have relevant domain expertise and who embrace November 2018 enabled the Executive Team and the Board to increase this Potential loss of future growth opportunities apprenticeship and graduate Ultras people remain engaged and Ultras culture is critical to the Groups strategic objectives.
In 2019 work will be undertaken to consider employee Staff morale could be impaired resulting in a rise in recruitment programmes.
This enables committed engagement and promote diversity.
employee-related issues e. g. grievances and sickness Ultra to grow a broad range of skills Talent and succession planning has TREND: NO SIGNIFICANT CHANGE Potential legal, regulatory and employee rights breaches and capabilities and to remain been, and will continue to be, a focus successful at innovating to meet for the Board Pgs 1821 People and culture customers needs The annual Organisation, Succession & Ultras people and their development Development Plan OSDP results in are fundamental to Group success.
high-potential employees being Employee development needs form identified and their development part of performance and development monitored reviews and are aligned to employees specific needs Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 37 POTENTIAL IMPACT OF FAILURE MITIGATIONS EXAMPLES RISK 1 Although the defence market has been challenging in recent years, there Poor investment decisions leading to inadequate returns The Group is offsetting challenges in The Board conducts a rigorous review of are strong indications of a return to growth, particularly in the US, as Reduced business opportunity and loss of reputation, the UK defence market by expanding acquisition opportunities including GROWTH indicated by the Groups strong order book going into 2019.
high-potential employees being Employee development needs form identified and their development part of performance and development monitored reviews and are aligned to employees specific needs Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 38 Financial statements 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued RISK DESCRIPTION CHANGES DURING 2018 RISK 4 The CORVID Protect and Ultra approach to security continues to provide a Reduced product differentiation caused by loss of The Groups information security is Intellectual property is addressed in the high level of assurance.
The global increase in the incidence and intellectual property provided through its continued bid and contract management process INFORMATION MANAGEMENT sophistication of cyber security crime means this risk continues to be a Reputational damage to Ultra as a highly regarded provider investment in Ultras Cyber Protection and protected through information priority for the Company.
A review of all systems was undertaken in light of of secure data systems Group part of CORVID Protect.
It security AND SECURITY the GDPR legislation and new processes are now being embedded.
Loss of business opportunity with removal of government provides Group-wide monitoring, Security clearance processes are in place The incidence and sophistication of cyber security crime continues to rise.
approval to work on classified programmes incident response and continued for all employees The effective management and protection of information and Ultras IT Disruption of business activity as systems are cleansed enhancement of Ultras IT systems and Established physical security processes systems is necessary to prevent the loss of data and the disruption of andrestored processes are implemented at all sites operations.
The Board is kept updated on how Cyber insurance has been evaluated CORVID Protect secures Ultras asarisk mitigation over the course of TREND: NO SIGNIFICANT CHANGE the year.
network, including protecting Ultra from phishing attacks Pg 33 Financial guidance investment programme A procurement strategy and SMART objectives are being developed and Failure to deliver against customer commitments Building ongoing partnerships with The Boards commitment to compliance RISK 5 an assessment of the impact of Brexit has been undertaken.
The Brexit risk Reduced profit margins and increased contractual disputes strategic suppliers and managing with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 is SUPPLY CHAIN has meant the supply chain risk has slightly increased.
and litigation major supplier risks and issues contained in the Anti-Slavery and The Group relies upon suppliers and subcontractors to deliver upon its Loss of reputation and investor confidence including single source arrangements Human Trafficking Statement customer commitments.
Ultras supply chain needs to be efficient to through the bid management and www.
com investors maintain margins and to be compliant with legislation.
contract management policies  of regional policy.
aspx The Groups manufacturing facilities are exposed to natural catastrophe procurement councils to target the Business continuity and disaster risks and the Group is exposed to social, economic, regulatory and optimisation of Ultras supply chain for recovery plans are in place political conditions in the countries in which it operates.
Direct Procurement The Group has business interruption, Evaluation of Brexit risk has identified property damage, professional TREND: SLIGHT INCREASE supply chain as the key area of risk.
indemnity and product liability insurance More detail is included on page 35 Pg 35 Brexit case study RISK 6 A new Chief Executive Officer joined the Company in June 2018 and as a Significant financial loss e. g. fraud, theft, material errors The Group Operating Manual and Risk Internal Audit conducts an audit of the result, the roles of Chief Executive Officer and Chair of the Board were Loss of reputation and investor confidence Management Framework provides Groups internal control system GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL separated again bringing Ultra back into line with the expectations of the Loss of business opportunity with removal of government clear instructions on the Groups Code.
As further described on page 52, the The Board undertook a approval to work on classified programmes internal governance and controls The terms of reference for the Board CONTROLS Governance workshop during the year with actions being identified to The businesses provide year-end andcommittees are reviewed and Maintaining corporate governance standards as well as an effective risk make improvements to processes.
The Board determined that there had disclosures on the effectiveness of updatedannually.
management and internal control system is critical to supporting the been a slight increase in this risk, however, this is expected to reduce as we their accounting and internal control delivery of the Groups strategy.
continue to review and refresh our governance processes and policies systems following the corporate governance workshop and implement changes TREND: SLIGHT INCREASE necessary as a result of new Corporate Governance Code and statutory reporting requirements during 2019.
Pgs 4753 Governance and Accountability Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 39 POTENTIAL IMPACT OF FAILURE MITIGATIONS EXAMPLES RISK 4 The CORVID Protect and Ultra approach to security continues to provide a Reduced product differentiation caused by loss of The Groups information security is Intellectual property is addressed in the high level of assurance.
Pgs 4753 Governance and Accountability Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 40 Financial statements 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued RISK DESCRIPTION CHANGES DURING 2018 The pension scheme has continued to increase the hedging of its Any increase in the deficit may require additional cash Annual accounting and triennial The Pension Trustees and the Company RISK 7 agreed to increased hedging of the liabilities.
There is no change to this risk.
contributions and thereby reduce the available cash for pension valuations are in place and PENSIONS the Group any issues that may arise are schemes liabilities The Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme needs to be managed highlighted to the Board The Board undertakes regular Pension to ensure it does not become a serious liability for the Group.
There are The Pension Trustees and the Strategy Reviews a number of factors including investment returns, long-term interest Company actively consider pension Long term scheme funding targets rate and price inflation expectations, and anticipated members risk reduction activities such as liability have been agreed longevity that can increase the liabilities of the scheme.
matching, dynamic fide-risking, pension increase exchange and TREND: NO SIGNIFICANT CHANGE retirement transfer options Pg 32 Pensions RISK 8 The Company continues to take compliance very seriously and the Board Failure to comply with legislation and regulations could The Group Operating Manual is well The Ethics Overview Committee and Executive Team strive to reinforce an ethical culture.
For example, all result in fines and penalties and or the debarment of the established and policies and provides independent advice and LEGISLATION REGULATION employees are required to undertake anti-bribery training on an annual Group from government contracts procedures are regularly updated to scrutiny of Ultras business activity.
It The Group operates in a highly regulated environment across many basis and updated agents' policies are now in place.
GDPR processes are Reduced access to export markets could have a material reflect changing legislative and provides assurance to the Board that jurisdictions and is subject to regulatory and legislative requirements.
being transferred from a change programme to business as usual.
adverse effect on the Groups future revenue and profit regulatory requirements the Groups undertakings are There is a risk that the Group may not always be in complete Loss of reputation and investor confidence Regular compliance training is transparent and conducted ethically compliance with laws, regulations or permits.
undertaken as part of Ultras within the legislative environment commitment to an ethical culture and Employees have access to a GroupExport restrictions could become more arduous and factors outside of individual businesses provide wide confidential hotline to report Ultras control could result in the Group being unable to obtain or compliance statements as part of anonymously any concerns they may maintain necessary export licences.
monthly business performance have about possible improprieties and reporting other compliance issues TREND: NO SIGNIFICANT CHANGE The Board receives regular updates and presentations on the Companys legal Pgs 5761 Audit Committee Report and regulatory requirements The Board has zero appetite for HS&E reportable incidents.
The number Incidents may occur which could result in harm to The Board has zero appetite for HS&E The Board undertakes an annual RISK 9 of lost time accidents increased slightly however reportable accidents employees and visitors, the temporary shutdown of risk and the Groups leadership is review of HS&E and the Executive HEALTH, SAFETY AND reduced slightly.
facilities or other business disruption committed to ensuring that this Team reviews HS&E on a quarterly The Group may be exposed to regulatory action and remains a top priority.
Each business conducts an ENVIRONMENT HS&E financial loss incidents are reported to the Board annual HS&E self-assessment in Ensuring high standards of health and safety of employees and visitors Loss of reputation and investor confidence along with a correction or mitigation addition to a biannual external audit and maintaining commitment to minimise the environmental impact of plan activities is of paramount importance to the Company.
TREND: NO SIGNIFICANT CHANGE Pg 25 Health and safety Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 41 POTENTIAL IMPACT OF FAILURE MITIGATIONS EXAMPLES The pension scheme has continued to increase the hedging of its Any increase in the deficit may require additional cash Annual accounting and triennial The Pension Trustees and the Company RISK 7 agreed to increased hedging of the liabilities.
TREND: NO SIGNIFICANT CHANGE Pg 25 Health and safety Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 42 Financial statements 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk appetite statement Statement of going concern Ultra operates in a market that is subject to The Directors have a reasonable expectation INNOVATION AND high levels of scrutiny.
Our relationships with that the Group has adequate resources for a DEVELOPMENT our partners, our reputation and our integrity period of at least 12 months from the date of are a key part of our continued success and approval of the financial statements and have the trust placed in us by our stakeholders.
therefore assessed that the going concern basis Innovation and Development is an important of accounting is appropriate in preparing the cornerstone of organic growth.
The Group is Ultra has a very low appetite to take risk financial statements and that there are no both self and customer funded for its R&D where our culture, reputation or financial material uncertainties to disclose.
Whilst the environment for standing might be adversely affected and customer funding is strengthening, Ultra has as a consequence we seek to implement Ultras net debt at 31 December 2018 was not increased its internally funded R&D in governance and internal controls to manage 157.4m 2017: 74.5m.
This has been due to increased risks to quality, safety, regulatory and legal committed banking facilities amount to customer funded R&D and the cyclicality of compliance, and financial integrity.
526.4m in total, together with a 5.0m and the aerospace R&D cycle.
The Groups revolving credit continuing organic growth results in this risk This does not mean however, that we do facility of 300m is denominated in Sterling, being a priority for the Company.
Our objective is to outperform US Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Australian this risk was the subject of a deep dive review the market in terms of total shareholder Dollars or Euros.
The facility is provided by in 2017 18. return.
Although we exercise natural caution a group of six international banks and has a Innovation is about creating new through considered assessment, Ultra committed maturity to November 2023, and differentiating solutions to customers' has an appetite for growth, particularly may be extended to November 2024 subject problems which yield products that satisfy through product and service innovation and to lender consent.
The facility agreement user needs.
Ultra is committed to growth in through acquisition where this complements permits an additional 150m accordion 2019 spending, above the 2018 levels.
Current existing markets and our core capability.
In which is uncommitted and subject to lender controls include some technology mapping addition, we have an appetite to explore and consent and can be used in certain acquisition and project approval documentation with operate in new markets provided we have scenarios.
The Group holds $165m of term proposed internal R&D spend evaluated high levels of confidence in the partners in loan which was established in May 2015: against future returns followed by a gated these markets that we collaborate with.
$40m is repayable on 31 March 2019, $40m project process.
Multi-year projects are also on 30 June 2019 and the remainder on re-evaluated annually.
Ultras individual business units work in 1 August 2019.
The Group also has loan notes an autonomous manner where being in issue to Pricoa which totalled 50m with Along with this increase in own funded R&D entrepreneurial is encouraged.
As a result, we an expiry date of October 2025 and $60m expenditures will come modifications and accept a higher level of risk as this is managed with an expiry date of 25 January 2019 at enhancements in group governance to in part by the diversity of our product and 31 December 2018 2017: $70m.
Agreement improve focus and efficiency of the service portfolio.
By leveraging the strength was reached with Pricoa in September 2018 investment projects.
This will include greater of the individual businesses, Ultra remains to issue new loan notes of $70m.
These were use of technology roadmaps, work with an agile organisation that is able to explore issued on 25 January 2019.
This debt will academia and the appointment of opportunities and markets for growth.
We expire in January 2026 and January 2029. technology leads where appropriate.
Marketing plans should identify technology have a lower appetite for risk taking in our investment timelines and requirement.
individual businesses where in aggregate there As well as being used to fund acquisitions, is a potential to impact the Group as a whole.
the financing facilities are also used for other Overall risk exposure balance sheet and operational needs, including Following the review and deep dive, the The Board will ultimately always consider the funding of day-to-day working capital overall severity of the risk remains taking higher risks that benefit our requirements.
The US Dollar borrowings unchanged.
stakeholders where the opportunity is seen also represent natural hedges against assets to outweigh the risks provided appropriate denominated in that currency.
Details of levels of mitigation are put in place.
how Ultra manages its liquidity risk can be found in note 22 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management.
Though global macro-economic conditions remain uncertain, and there continues to be uncertainty over the future UK landscape due to Brexit detail on the potential risks to the Group associated with this are set out on pages 35 and 38, the long-term nature of Ultras business and its positioning in attractive sectors of its markets, taken together with the Groups forward order book, provide a satisfactory level of confidence in respect of trading in the year to come.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 43 Long-term viability statement over the future landscape due to Brexit, and This conclusion is based on a review of the Long-term viability statement the effectiveness of any mitigating actions.
This resources available to the Group, taking In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the assessment has considered the potential impacts account of the Groups financial projections, 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the of these risks on the business model, future the diversified nature of the key markets Directors have assessed the viability of the performance, solvency and liquidity over the and programmes on which the Group Company over a longer period than the 12 period.
The following two severe but plausible operates, the long-term nature of many of months required by the going concern basis of scenarios were modelled: i no revenue or these programmes, together with available accounting.
The Board conducted this review underlying profit growth and an average cash and committed borrowings and the for a period of three years to December 2021, underlying operating cash conversion of 50% ability of the Group to raise new finance, to coincide with its review of the Groups over the three-year period to December 2021 the key financial covenants and material financial budgets and medium-term forecasts and ii a year-on-year revenue and underlying uncertainties, including the uncertainty arising from its Strategic Plan.
The certainty is lower in operating profit decline of 10% over the period due to Brexit.
In reaching this conclusion, later years due to the inherent uncertainties in to December 2021.
Consideration was also the Board has considered the magnitude of forecasting future performance.
The Strategic given to the level of unexpected cash outflow potential impacts resulting from uncertain Plan is underpinned by the regular Executive or decline in profitability that would be required future events or changes in conditions, the Team reviews of divisional performance, to result in a breach of financial covenants.
likelihood of their occurrence and the likely market opportunities and associated risks.
effectiveness of mitigating actions that the The assessment has taken into account the The Directors have determined that the Directors would consider undertaking.
Groups current position and the potential three-year period to December 2021 is an impact of the principal risks documented appropriate period to provide its viability in the Strategic Report.
In making their assessment, of the assessment, the Directors have a reasonable viability of the Company the Directors have expectation that the Company will be able to taken account of the Groups robust balance continue in operation and meet its liabilities sheet, its financial covenant headroom, its as they fall due over the period to December ability to raise new finance in different financial 2021.
In making this statement the Directors market conditions and its key potential have considered the resilience of the Group, mitigating actions of restricting dividend taking account of its current position, the payments and reductions in non-essential principal risks facing the business in severe expenditure and capital expenditure.
but plausible scenarios, the uncertainty arising
