Strategic report Financial review Revenue up 12%: constant currency revenue 7%ahead Group revenue was 326.0m, 12% ahead of the prior year FY2017:290.2m supported by the strong first half weighting from currency.
Group revenue in constant currency was 7% ahead of the prior year FY 2017: 305.3m in constant currency, with a slightly weaker sales mix, dampened by a slightly higher proportion of Consumer Electronics volumes and further growth inour Value Added Resellers segment.
Sales from new products one of our strategic KPIs grew in absolute terms to 11.5m FY 2017: 10.7m, but remained similar to FY 2017 as a percentage of Group sales 4%, reflecting stronger growth in the core business.
We continue to aspire to deliver 1020% of sales from new products ornew grades over the medium term, with the time taken for market adoption being key.
Richard Armitage Group Finance Director Alternative performance measures We use alternative performance measures to assist in presenting information in an easily comparable, analysable and comprehensible form.
The measures presented in this report are used by the Board in evaluating performance.
However, this additional information Investment presented is not required by IFRS or uniformly defined by all companies.
Certain measures are derived from amounts calculated in accordance with IFRS but are not in isolation an expressly drives strong permitted GAAP measure.
The measures are as follows: Group revenue in constant currency is used by the Board u toassess the year on year underlying performance of the growth & cash business excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates, which can by nature be volatile.
Group revenue in constant currency is reached by applying current year FY 2018 effective currency rates to prior year FY 2017 transactions generation see note 7.
Available cash is used to enable the Board to understand the u true cash position of the business when determining the use of cash under the capital allocation policy.
Available cash is cash and cash equivalents plus other financial assets cash invested in term deposits greater than three months in duration.
We continue to aspire to deliver 1020% of Thisis calculated as follows: sales from new products ornew grades over Available cash 2018 2017 the medium term, with the time taken for Cash and cash equivalents 71.2 120.1 market adoption being key.
Other financial assets 73.2 Available cash 144.4 120.1 Operating cash conversion is used by the Board to assess u Full-year sales volume up 10% the businesss ability to convert operating profit to cash Group sales volume of 4,407 tonnes was 10% ahead of the effectively, excluding the impact of investing and financing prioryear FY 2017: 3,992 tonnes.
Growth was broad based with activities.
Operating cash conversion is cash generated from allmarkets recording volume increases at or near double digits.
Growth did slow slightly in the second half, due in part to the large Consumer Electronics order which had been substantially fulfilled Sales from new products is sales from new products or u inthe first half.
We also saw some softening in certain Industrial grades sold from FY 2014 onwards.
The Board monitors markets during Q4, principally Automotive in line with the wider sales from new products one of our strategic KPIs to market and Consumer Electronics.
Excluding the effect of the assessthe level of revenue from mega-programmes, new large Consumer Electronics order, sales volume growth edged down differentiated polymers and other pipeline products that from 13% in the first half, to 6% in the second half, which saw were not sold before FY 2014. tougher comparatives.
Return on sales is monitored by the Board to assess the u overall profitability of the Group.
Return on sales is profit before tax revenue.
Dividend cover is used by the Board to measure the u affordability and sustainability of the Companys regular dividend.
Dividend cover is earnings per share total dividend per share.
This excludes the special dividend.
14 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Strong Automotive growth Victrex is well placed across traditional andelectric vehicles.
charge for the Groups employee bonus and LTIP schemes, which are Industrial strong, offset by Medical based on profit growth, overheads increased by 12%.
Our Industrial division reported revenues of 270.4m, 14% ahead ofthe prior year FY 2017: 236.3m, supported by currency.
Market Basic earnings per share of 128.8p was 11% ahead FY 2017: growth was broad based, with Automotive, Electronics and Energy 116.4pper share, which reflects the first normalised financial year being the strongest performers, along with growth in our emerging inwhich the Group tax rate benefited from the UK Patent Box Manufacturing & Engineering business.
Victrex also saw a positive scheme.
TheGroups effective tax rate was 13.3% for FY 2018 performance in Aerospace following a weaker 2017.
FY2017: 10.4%, reflecting the impact of the treatment of currency hedging and stock movements within the Patent Box methodology.
Medical revenues were 55.6m, 3% ahead of the prior year As our application of the scheme settles down, we expect our FY2017: 53.9m, driven by currency.
In constant currency, Medical effective taxrate going forward to be slightly more variable than revenues were flat, reflecting our high exposure to the US Spine initially expected and likely to be in the range of 10.5% to 13.5%.
market, which is mature and seeing some continued growth in titanium expandable cage applications, as well as 3D printed porous titanium cages.
Pleasingly, progress outside of the US, overall, Currency tailwind in FY 2018: headwind for FY2019 continues to be positive with 27% growth in Asia.
Our next generation Currency benefited the Group in FY 2018, with benefit to profit of Spine product, PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced, delivered a similar approximately 13m.
The currency tailwind significantly reduced performance to FY 2017, with meaningful revenue of approximately through the second half, moving to a small headwind in the 1m and over 10,000 patient implants using this product.
These currency impacts arise as a consequence of currency market ASP ahead reflecting currency movements, combined with our hedging policy which seeks to Our Average Selling Price ASP of 73.97 kg was 2% better than substantially protect our cash flows from currency volatility on a the prior year FY 2017: 72.70 kg, with the benefit of currency rolling twelve-month basis.
The policy requires that at least 90% partially offset by the weaker mix.
ofour cash flow exposure is hedged for the first six months, then atleast 75% for the second six months of any twelve-month period.
Pricing, excluding the benefit of currency, in the core business The implementation of the policy is overseen by an Executive remains broadly stable, with product mix being an important driver.
Currency Committee which approves all transactions and monitors Whilst we have competition in our markets, our focus on differentiation the policys effectiveness.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the and value added semi-finished products, with a higher price point, policy each year, the next review being in February 2019. will be a key driver of margin percentage over the coming years.
As a consequence of the hedging policy, over 80% of FY 2019 cash Robust gross margin flows were hedged as at October 2018, leading to an expected Group gross margin of 63.8% FY 2017: 63.3% was slightly ahead currency headwind of between 6m and 8m, which includes of the prior year, supported by favourable currency movements but theimpact of raw material and energy cost inflation.
We also Further information is available in note 14. saw a small year on year impact from our Zyex acquisition which, asa business producing semi-finished products, supports a lower Brexit gross margin percentage.
For 2019, on a full-year reported basis, The Group continues to consider the potential impact of Brexit onits weanticipate that Group gross margin will be slightly lower, business and has a team in place to consider various contingencies, principally reflecting material inflation and currency headwinds.
through the transition period and beyond.
For now, existing laws As we develop differentiated downstream products to support our and trading arrangements are unchanged.
mega-programmes, we have the opportunity to build new markets Based on our assessment of the latest available information, our for PEEK whilst capturing a higher absolute value share of each principal risk continues to be that there could be a sustained period application.
Whilst this may cause a slight softening of our gross when the Group may not be able to import certain raw materials margin percentage in the short term, we are confident that this orexport finished goods through Customs, which could curtail sales strategy will not only further differentiate and capture greater ifregional inventory levels were depleted.
In mitigation, additional valuein our markets, but will leadto enhanced returns.
warehousing for finished goods stock has been secured in mainland Europe and China which will allow a minimum of eight weeks Profit before tax up 15% and EPS 11% ahead offinished goods stock to be held outside the UK by the end of Group profit before tax PBT of 127.5m was 15% up on the prior March2019.
We have also secured some additional raw material year FY 2017: 111.0m.
PBT in constant currency increased by 3%.
Group inventories could exceed 80m through FY 2019 The future growth of our core business, as well as the success of our asaconsequence FY 2018: 69.3m.
mega-programmes, requires ongoing investment in our front-end functions of Sales, R&D and Marketing.
Together with an increased Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 15 Strategic report Financial review continued Brexit continued Manufacturing investment supports Victrex has attempted to assess the potential financial impact of a downstreamstrategy no deal Brexit.
Should standard WTO tariffs be applied, increased Capital investment in the short to medium term remains focused costs may be incurred through the application of duties to the import around our downstream manufacturing facilities, which support of certain raw materials and on the export of finished goods.
It is each of our new product mega-programmes.
For 2018, the focus possible in the first year following our exit from the EU that these was on our TxV Aero Composites joint venture, where Victrex and could be substantially mitigated by a weakening of Sterling, but this Tri-Mack Plastics teamed up to manufacture, at scale, differentiated is heavily dependent on the timing of any deal announcement and Loaded Brackets and composite parts for the Aerospace market.
Our resulting currency market movements.
As the only current manufacturer new US manufacturing facility started commissioning at the end of of PEEK products in the EU, we are also preparing to exploit longer-term the financial year, supporting first prototype orders for composite tariff mitigation strategies that may be available to us.
parts, based on our AE250 polymer grade, which is already pre-qualified with the major aerospace manufacturers.
We also saw An Executive Committee has been established to monitor Brexit some small-scale investment at our Victrex Grantsburg Kleiss Gears developments and direct mitigating actions.
The Company continues facility in the US to support additional manufacturing capacity, and tomonitor the situation closely.
at our Victrex Stonehouse Zyex Fibres facility in the UK.
Investment to drive growth Capital expenditure was low at 9.9m FY 2017: 16.7m but We continue to invest in the growth of our core Industrial and ourguidance for Group capital expenditure for the medium term Medical businesses.
This investment is primarily in our front-end at20m25m per annum remains unchanged.
Sales, Technical Service and R&D capabilities that are critical to At the half year, we announced that we would need to invest in ourongoing success.
An ongoing focus on quality is also essential, new polymer manufacturing capacity during the next five years.
as is continuous improvement in our operations.
We have taken Thisreflects Victrexs historical trend of investing ahead of demand, steps to accelerate our progress in these areas during the year.
and is driven by the current volume momentum in the business, This investment has led to some new and incremental applications thepotential from high volume downstream applications, and an across a number of markets.
Examples include home appliance assessment of our effective capacity.
Options are currently being applications such as vacuum cleaners in the Electronics market: and explored and we expect to be presenting recommendations to the fluid handling and food processing applications in Manufacturing & Board during 2019.
Engineering markets which reports under Energy & Other Industrial.
We also recently launched Victrex FG, a dedicated polymer grade Further milestones achieved in our for the food industry, to reflect increasing regulatory standards and mega-programmes the need for alternative materials.
In our medium to longer-term pipeline, we saw milestones delivered in all of our mega-programmes.
Total operating overheads were up 12% to 81.1m FY 2017: 72.7m.
This was driven in part by a higher accrual for the Groups profit Gears saw the start of a first supply agreement to a major European growth linked bonus scheme and LTIPs, whilst investment in our car manufacturer during the period, with our PEEK Gears now business-facing functions grew by 8%.
With multiple development agreements in place with investment of 17.4m FY 2017: 14.5m represents approximately other car manufacturers, our discussions suggest we are close to other 5% of Group revenue and is anticipated to remain similar to, or larger supply opportunities through 2019 and beyond.
Thanks to slightly above, this level over the medium term.
the capabilities we acquired through the Kleiss Gears acquisition, weare able to design, develop and manufacture PEEK based Gears, For FY 2019, we again are budgeting for a significant increase in although partnerships for manufacturing will be the focus going business-facing overhead investment to support both core growth forward, ensuring Victrex retains the IP but limits the capital and our mega-programmes, as well as some operating expense as required to scale up manufacturing.
we explore new capacity options.
The impact is expected to be offset by a lower accrual for bonus and LTIPs, which reflects consensus Our Aerospace Loaded Brackets programme will benefit from the expectations of lower profit growth due to currency headwinds completion of our TxV Aero Composites manufacturing facility, which andour expectations around Consumer Electronics volumes, will give us the capability to manufacture parts from 2019.
Progress has togivetotal overheads for the year broadly in line with FY 2018. also been made in establishing long-term development alliances with a number of Aerospace OEMs, and we are in advanced discussions here.
In Energy, our Pipe programme with Magma earned revenue in the period from the manufacture of a 2.5km subsea flowline to be supplied for a customer deployment.
Victrex supplied the PEEK pipe and PEEK 16 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Dividend per ordinary share Available cash Pence m 150 150 100 100 50 50 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Regular dividend Special dividend composite tape as part of the finished m-pipe produced by Magma.
Dividends Looking further forward, we note the TechnipFMC announcement Retaining the flexibility to invest in support of our growth remains our relating to the potential use of m-pipe within the Libra field top priority, whether that is through capital expenditure, M&A, joint development in Brazil, building on other potential supply opportunities ventures or partnerships.
The Group also has a potentialrequirement with Tullow and Equinor formerly Statoil over the next 12 years.
for investment in new or additional polymer manufacturing capacity within five years.
The Board has assessed several distribution options In Medical, our focus to grow our non-Spine business saw a notable for future shareholder returns, whilst noting these investment needs, milestone in Dental, where we signed a customer agreement with and has concluded that our current capital allocation policy should Straumann Dental, which will help to enhance market access and be retained, which is to grow the regular dividend broadly in line improve the global reach for our Invibio Dental product Juvora.
with earnings, whilst maintaining cover around 2x.
The Group will This builds on the products strong record of clinical data and existing also retain the threshold for payment of a special dividend at 50p share European and US regulatory approvals.
Further customer discussions from FY 2019 subject tono additional investment requirements.
are ongoing and our focus is to secure meaningful revenue of over 1m in Dental over the next year.
We also secured distribution With the Group delivering a strong performance in 2018, the final agreements in Europe.
dividend will increase, in line with EPS, by 11% to 46.14p share FY2017: 41.60p share, giving total regular dividends of 59.56p share for the year.
In Trauma, we secured a collaboration agreement with a top In addition, the Group is proposing a special dividend of 82.68p 5player and through our partner Maxx, saw the clinical trial for share, based on the minimum threshold of 50p share being reached.
ourKnee programme following ethics approval and appointment ofthe lead investigator.
New accounting standards Victrex will adopt the requirements of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 with effect Strong balance sheet from 1 October 2018, as explained in note 1.
Whilst neither has a With a strong balance sheet, we are able to support growth material impact on the Groups results, it should be noted that the investment and provide security of supply to our customers.
Net presentation of gains and losses on currency contracts under IFRS 9 assets at 30 September 2018 totalled 489.9m FY 2017: 478.4m.
has the potential to affect our reported gross margin percentage, Inventories slightly increased to 69.3m FY 2017: 61.5m, as we but not absolute gross profit, in future statements.
saw some stock build as part of developing new polymer grades and as our Brexit contingency plan starts to take effect.
Pensions The outcome of the recent Lloyds Banking Group case in October 2018, Continued strong cash generation in relation toguaranteed minimum pensions has also been noted.
Cash generated from operations was 135.8m FY 2017: 137.4m Should this outcome be upheld, we anticipate that a one-off non-cash representing an operating cash conversion cash generated from P&L charge in the range 1m to 2m may arise during FY 2019. operations operating profit of 107% FY 2017: 124%.
Net cash TheVictrex Pension Fund remains in surplus on both a technical with no debt at 30 September 2018 was 144.4m FY 2017: provisions and on an accounting basis.
120.1m, based on available cash, which includes cash held ondeposit.
In July 2018 we paid the 2018 interim dividend of Outlook 13.42pper share.
Combined with the payment for the 2017 special For 2019, our expectation is for continued momentum in our core dividend and final dividend, dividend payments in 2018 totalled polymer business and milestones in our mega-programmes.
expect to make good progress on a constant currency basis: however, adverse currency, no expected volumes in Consumer Electronics and Taxation recent market softness in Automotive may hold back our ability to The Groups effective tax rate reflects the associated benefit from Victrex substantially improve on our overall 2018 performance, with these filing patents as part of its unique chemistry and IP.
Victrex qualified under headwinds falling mainly in the first half.
A better second half, the UK governments Patent Box scheme, which incentivises Research compared to the prior year, is our current assessment and, with strong & Development investment in the UK.
As previously communicated, structural growth opportunities and a healthy new product pipeline, the scheme is expected to provide an associated benefit to our tax rate we continue to be well placed for the medium and long term.
from 2017 for the duration of the patents, resulting in a normalised tax rate of approximately 12% and a range expected to be between 10.5% and 13.5%.
The effective tax rate of 13.3% for FY 2018 Richard Armitage FY2017: 10.4% reflects gains from foreign currency hedges Group Finance Director whichare taxed, outside the Patent Box regime, at a normalised 4 December 2018 corporation tax rate, as well as the impact of stock movements onthe Patent Box methodology.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 17 45.15 50.00 46.82 46.82 53.80 68.00 59.56 82.68 Strategic report Performance review Executive Directors reports Energy & Other Industrial Energy & Other Industrial which includes Manufacturing & Engineering reported sales volume of 680 tonnes, which was 23% ahead of the prior year FY 2017: 555 tonnes, with oil & gas up 19% overall.
Victrex saw continued year on year improvement, with onshore prospering, whilst the offshore sector has not yet returned to activity levels seen earlier this decade.
Our Magma oil & gas mega-programme delivered meaningful revenue of over 1m during 2018, with Victrex supplying the PEEK pipe and PEEK composite tape as part of the finished m-pipe produced by Magma.
Materials for a planned deployment inWest Africa supported growth, with further opportunities for FY2019, whilst a long-term opportunity offshore in Brazil with TechnipFMC continues to support the Magma proposition.
Manufacturing & Engineering M&E remains a relatively new areafor Victrex and is becoming a meaningful contributor to our Energy & Other Industrial business.
M&E is focused on new or incremental applications in fluid handling, food contact materials and manufacturing equipment-based applications, where metal Tim Cooper replacement requirements are increasing.
M&E again saw Executive Director double-digit volume growth through 2018 and we recently introduced Victrex FG, afood grade product.
Industrial revenue Value Added Resellers 270.4m 14% Value Added Resellers combines a mix of long-term Channels business, where processors or compounders are using our PEEK materials for part or component manufacturing specified by end Industrial gross profit users and OEMs, together with more variable demand requirements as the pull from Industrial markets using Victrex PEEK continues 158.6m 17% to grow.
Because of the fragmented nature of the Industrial supply chain, once PEEK has been specified by end users, full clarity on the exact route to market for all of our polymer business is not always possible.
Sales volume of 1,766 tonnes was 5% ahead of last year FY 2017: 1,688 tonnes, as processors and Industrial customers continued to benefit from the growth opportunities within the highperformance polymer market, although Q4 growth rates Our Industrial business delivered revenueof wereslightly lower, principally due to phasing.
270.4m FY 2017: 236.3m, 14% ahead Transport ofthe prior year.
A number of megatrends, including lightweighting, CO reduction, 2 durability, comfort and heat resistance, continue to support the long-term outlook for Transport markets.
Sales volume increased 11% to1,035 tonnes FY 2017: 929 tonnes, primarily driven by Industrial animproved year onyear performance in Aerospace and another goodperformance in Automotive.
Victrex manages and reports its performance through the Industrial formerly VPS and Medical formerly Invibio divisions although we Automotive continue to provide a market-based summary of our performance Automotive growth saw volumes increase 8%, well ahead of and growth opportunities.
The Industrial division includes the markets marketgrowth.
Continued translations of core applications offer of Energy & Other Industrial including Manufacturing & Engineering, opportunities across manufacturers, in braking systems, transmission Value Added Resellers, Automotive, Aerospace and Electronics.
Victrex PEEK is predominantly deployed Our Industrial business delivered revenue of 270.4m FY 2017: 236.3m, within the vehicle powertrain and, with a long track record here, 14% ahead of the prior year, supported by currency.
Gross profit ourfocus is to increase the average volume to approximately 12g of was up 17% on the prior year, with gross margin up at 58.7% PEEK per vehicle over the medium term, compared to approximately FY2017: 57.3%, reflecting the benefit of currency, offset by a 8g today.
slightly weaker Industrial mix, as growth in Value Added Resellers continued, alongside a slightly higher contribution from Consumer Electronics.
Industrial also saw some emerging inflation in selected raw materials.
18 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report PEEK remains well placed for both internal combustion engines and Aerospace hybrids.
Electric vehicles EVs, whilst still emerging, offer further Aerospace saw a positive year on year performance, with volumes opportunities for our materials, with slot-liners, wire coating and increasing by 23%, although revenue growth was lower as pricing other applications.
PEEKs properties of durability and chemical, electrical remained competitive.
Brackets, fasteners and other applications and heat resistance play well here.
Whilst EV opportunities remain continue tooffer incremental translation opportunities.
Mediumat a very early stage, early indications suggest a long-term potential term growth prospects look positive as build rates and the use of for over 100g per EV application and, with more value rather than composites and differentiated products increase.
Lightweighting simply volume business, we continue to work on several differentiated and the ability to reduce manufacturing cycle time by up to 40% products inthis area.
We have also recruited capability from the isa key selling point for ourPEEK and PAEK polymers.
Beyond this, major car manufacturers.
our differentiated polymer grades, such as our AE250 low-melt version, continue to progress, alongside our focus on product forms Our Gears are now on the road, with the first parts supplied and parts, such as film andour Aerospace Loaded Brackets toamajor European car manufacturer, and we also have several opportunity.
OurnewUS manufacturing facility in Rhode Island, development agreements in place which we anticipate will lead US, is in commissioning andnearing completion, with the ability tofurther parts being supplied.
PEEK Gears based on Victrex toinitially manufacture approximately 150 tonnes of composite HPGPEEK can offer a 50% performance and noise vibration and parts per year.
We are alsoin advanced discussions around harshness NVH benefit compared to metal gears, aswell as strategicalliances whichcould support further development and contributing to the trend for minimising CO emissions through 2 commercialisation ofthermoplastic composites in primary and weight &inertia reduction, and quicker manufacturing compared secondary structures inthe coming years.
We remain focused on driving this mega-programme around 41,000 new or replacement aircraft required by 2035, the towards ameaningful 1m revenue stage in 2019.
Tohelp scale long-term opportunities in this market, particularly in lightweight this opportunity, we will partner with manufacturing companies composite parts, remainstrong.
tosupport a wider roll-out and reduce development time, whilst retaining the development know-how.
A PEEK Gear offers the Electronics potential of approximately 20g per application.
Electronics remained a strong performer during the period.
Totalvolumes were up 19% to 746 tonnes FY 2017: 626 tonnes, including volumes from the large Consumer Electronics order, whichwere slightly ahead of 2018.
With this order reflecting legacy applications, we anticipate much lower or zero volumes in 2019, although we increased the potential revenue opportunity for our Mobile Devices programme, reflecting some of our broader medium-term prospects.
Victrex sawstrength in Semiconductor, inAPTIV film and emerging applications for Home Appliances andinother consumer related areasduring 2018, and we anticipate continued momentum in theseareas, whilst recognising the inherent lumpiness of the Electronics segment.
Regional trends Regional trends remain important to Victrex.
Europe was up 7%, with 2,308 tonnes FY 2017: 2,155 tonnes reflecting the strength in Transport, Value Added Resellers and Industrial markets.
Asia-Pacific was up 20% to 1,264 tonnes FY 2017: 1,049 tonnes principally from Electronics, whilst US volumes were 6% ahead at 835 tonnes FY2017: 788 tonnes largely reflecting the year on year improvement inthe Energy market.
Lift off Our TxV Aero Composites facility supports theuse of lighter Aerospace materials.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 19 Strategic report Performance review Executive Directors reports continued some ofour existing Spine product, the medium-term opportunity for global translations is attractive.
On a medium to long-term view, our vision for Medical solutions totreat a patient every 1520 seconds in 810 years is also based ongrowth in non-US Spine and progress in our emerging mega-programmes of Dental, Trauma and Knee.
Mega-programmes Good progress was made this year in Dental, where we signed a customer agreement with Straumann Dental, one of the worlds leading dental companies, which will help increase market penetration of our Invibio Dental Juvora branded products.
The agreement will help to improve global reach our sales resource by virtue of Straumann will increase significantly building on PEEK-OPTIMAs clinical performance and existing European and US regulatory approvals.
We also secured two distribution agreements in Europe.
Our emphasis is on the prosthetic dental implant market, with the Martin Court Invibio Dental offering focused on improving quality of life and clinical Executive Director outcomes for patients, whilst offering manufacturing efficiency benefits.
Our product also supports the potential for milling a PEEK based disc up to three times faster than a titanium equivalent product.
Medical revenue Our Dental product was first commercialised in 2012, initially through regional dental laboratories.
It secured CE mark approval in 55.6m 3% 2012, followed by initial US FDA approval in 2014, and a further FDA approval in 2017 for use in prosthetic All on 4 implants.
Juvora Medical gross profit was also granted a US patent in 2017.
Whilst Dental sales remain below the 1m meaningful revenue threshold, we anticipate that 49.4m 2% with the Straumann agreement, and other potential market access opportunities, we have the opportunity to realise meaningful revenue over the next 12months.
With our Trauma manufacturing facility in place, we have the ability to meet initial demand and will be further developing our capacity capabilities over the next 12 years.
Our PEEK composite Trauma plates offer the potential for 50 times better fatigue resistance compared The Knee clinical trial has now been submitted, to a metal plate.
They also offer the opportunity for enhanced healing.
with thelead investigator appointed in Italy The awareness of composites as a viable metal alternative is growing and we successfully signed a collaboration agreement with a top 5 andpatient recruitment moving forward.
Trauma player during the year.
We are also continuing to work with smaller innovative players through development agreements.
In Knee, our PEEK based solutions offer potential in this $6 billion Medical global market.
With 1 in 5 patients dissatisfied with their knee surgery, typically those using metal-based solutions, patient demand for Medical revenue, including the benefit of currency, was up3% at alternatives is growing.
Our Knee proposition and partnership 55.6m FY 2017: 53.9m.
In constant currency, Medical revenue withMaxx Orthopedics provide a good platform to support our was flat, principally reflecting the maturity of the US Spine market, long-term aspirations.
The Knee clinical trial has now been submitted, where we have the most exposure.
Gross profit was 49.4m FY 2017: with the leadinvestigator appointed in Italy, ethics approval and 48.3m and gross margin remained stable at 88.8% FY 2017: 89.6%.
patient recruitment moving forward, with a focus to safely progress the clinical trial during FY 2019.
Revenue outside of the US remains robust, with Asia-Pacific growing by 27%, offset by a decline in Europe of -5%.
Asia-Pacific growth principally reflects some non-Spine areas such as Cranio Maxio-Facial CMF and Arthroscopy, as sales mix within Medical weakened.
Dental opportunity Our agreement with Straumann will support Medical market overview future growth.
The lack of material growth in the number of US spinal procedures over recent years, continued growth in expandable spinal cages, 3D printed titanium cages and some downward pressure on pricing have led to revenue growth being challenging in recent years.
Our focus is to diversify our Medical business into non-Spine areas, as well as seeking growth through emerging geographies.
Our premium and differentiated PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced product to drive next generation Spine procedures is one part of our strategy to grow our Medical business.
Having delivered over 1m ofrevenue in 2017, we saw a similar performance in 2018, where we now have over 10,000 patient implants.
Whilst it will cannibalise 20 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Risk management Risk management Risk management is embedded in Victrexs culture, ensuring that we assess risks as part ofdelivering our strategy.
1 RISK AGENDA 4 RISK COMMUNICATION 2 RISK ASSESSMENT 5 RISK GOVERNANCE 3 RISK RESPONSE Analysis and recording of risks RISK AGENDA Appropriate managers at all levels of the business perform risk 1 Why do we undertake riskmanagement?
assessments starting at site and functional levels.
They then takeownership of specific business risks.
Thelikely causes and consequences of each risk are recorded.
Eachrisk is evaluated based on its likelihood of occurrence and severity ofimpact on strategy, Risk objectives profit, regulatory compliance, reputation and or people.
Risks are The Board is responsible for determining the Companys risk appetite evaluated at both a gross and net level, i. e. before and after the in delivering Victrexs strategy as set out on pages 12 and 13.
All risks arepositioned on a risk-ranking matrix.
undertakes risk management with the objective of facilitating better This approach allows the identification and consistent evaluation decision making, resilience and sustainability to continually improve ofsignificant risks, as well as consideration ofthe effect of current the performance of our business and provide relevant information lines of defence in mitigation.
The three lines of defence model is used: This is particularly important as the business continues to move downstream into semi-finished products, finished products and 1st: The day to day controls and processes put in place by management.
components and as it supports market adoption and stimulates 2nd: Activities to advise and oversee first-line controls and demand for the mega-programmes.
processes and risk management processes, often at least one step removed from first-line direct management.
Risk strategy The Board is responsible for creating the framework for the 3rd: Independent business assurance provided by both third Groups risk management to operate effectively and for ensuring parties and in-house internal audit over the effectiveness of the risk management activities are embedded in Victrexs processes.
Groups system of internal controls and processes in first and The Board is also responsible for ensuring that appropriate and secondlines of defence.
proportionate resources are allocated to risk management activities.
Re-evaluation and challenge ofrisks The risk registers are regularly reviewed, challenged and debated to keep them up to date and relevant to our strategy.
Risks are RISK ASSESSMENT escalated as appropriate.
2 How do we assess andrecordrisks?
When assessing risk, management considers in detail: u external factors, including environmental, social and governance ESG factors arising from the environment inwhichwe operate: and u internal factors arising from the nature of our business, internalcontrols and processes.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 21 Strategic report Risk management continued The Companys management is responsible for the identification, RISK RESPONSE assessment, management and monitoring of risk and for developing, operating and monitoring the system of internal control.
The Audit 3 How do we respond torisks?
Committee receives reports from management on the effectiveness of those systems it has established.
For each risk, we decide whether to tolerate it, mitigate it through The Risk and Compliance function supports the Audit Committee further control, transfer it e. g. through insurance or terminate inits review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control, thethreat to the business.
asdoes the external auditor on matters identified during the course We continually challenge the efficiency and effectiveness of of its statutory audit work.
existinginternal controls and always seek to improve our risk management framework.
ELT Risk Management Committee The Executive Leadership Team ELT Risk Management Committee, The risk owners and the Risk and Compliance team allocate a chaired by the Group Finance Director, reviews the corporate risk statusrating of appropriateness and effectiveness against each register at least half yearly to ensure it remains relevant to the lineof defence.
This allows the risk register to record and track changing uncertainties which have the potential to impact our thecompletion of improvement recommendations.
During the year feedback from these reviews was provided directly to the Audit Committee and the Board by the Group Finance Director, to the former in respect RISK COMMUNICATION oftherisk management systems and to the latter in respect 4 Effective communication oftheprincipal risks in the corporate risk register.
The ELT Risk Management Committee comprises the ELT membership and theDirector of Risk and Compliance.
At Victrex, our risk management structure is as follows: Risk management subcommittees Victrex plc Board Risk management subcommittees exist for business unit functional The Board undertakes reviews of the effectiveness of the risk levels.
These meet and report up to the ELT Risk Management management framework, policy and procedures and supported Committee at least half yearly via their respective Chairs, who are bytheAudit Committee approves the risk management policy.
ELT Risk Management Committee members.
A more comprehensive review of effectiveness includes consideration Projects of the continued effective integration of risk management and internal Where it is appropriate, projects will have a project-specific risk controls with the corporate strategic objectives and business model, register which will be reported to the relevant business unit.
changes to and completeness of the principal risks and their management, the robustness of the embedded risk management processes and culture which underpin the quality of the reporting received by the Board, consideration of any significant control failings RISK GOVERNANCE orweaknesses and the strength of our public reporting process.
5 How do we evaluate andprovide assurance Twice yearly, the Board carries out a comprehensive assessment of the overour management of risks?
principal risks, including evaluating the level of risk it is prepared to accept in pursuit of Victrexs strategic objectives.
In Victrex, the processes in place to support the risk governance The corporate risk register is consolidated from registers within business component of our risk management framework include the following: functions and projects.
The corporate risk register tracks the status ratings against each line of defence and the action plan, therefore u For Board and internal audit, the Board reviews the Companys allowing it to be used effectively as a record of the completion of Principal Risks semi-annually, ensuring they remain appropriate, riskimprovement actions and their revised likelihood and impact.
and monitors risk mitigation and actions.
u The Chair of each of the risk management subcommittees Audit Committee communicates significant output, activities and emerging and The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are explained on evolving risks to the meetings of the ELT Risk Management page52.
These responsibilities include reviewing the Companys risk Committee, which reviews these and the risks in the corporate management systems.
The risk management system is primarily risk register.
The three lines of defence model is recognised as designed to mitigate risk down to an acceptable level, rather than best practice in relation to risk governance, and its inclusion on completely eliminate the risk, and the review can provide only the face of our corporate risk register enhances the governance reasonable and not absolute assurance of effective operation, aspect of our risk management framework.
compliance with laws and regulations and against material misstatement or loss.
