Strategic Report 18 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Chief Financial Officers review Improving margins and strong financial results We are also creating efficient digital customer Digital Vodafone will build Developments in India care solutions, including AI-enabled chatbots, on Fitfor Growth achievements Given high competitive intensity and in order to reduce the loading in our call regulatory pressure, Vodafone Indias service I am pleased to report that for the third year centres, with a target that 60% of contacts revenue contracted by 19% and adjusted in a row we grew our adjusted EBITDA faster are via digital agents by 2021.
And we are EBITDA by 35% on an organic basis during than service revenues, supporting a significant introducing new smart capex allocation the year, while Idea Cellular reported improvement in our adjusted EBITDA margins, methodologies, based on broader and deeper a similar financial performance.
We have which have now risen from a low of 28.3% data analytics which enable us to understand taken a number of steps during the year in 2015 to 31.6% in 2018.
Adjusted EBIT has our profitability both by customer and to strengthen the financial position of the recovered even more sharply with organic by mobile site.
future joint venture, raising approximately growth of 47%.
This margin improvement 3.5 billion in incremental financing for the was supported by a further annual reduction Maintaining a strong balance business.
These actions include: in our organic operating costs on an absolute sheet post acquisitions basis, reflecting the success of our Fit for The sale of Vodafone India and Ideas Growth efforts.
These include centralising Vodafone has benefited throughout its standalone tower assets for 1.0 billion, procurement, developing Shared Service history from a strong balance sheet and which we announced in October 2017 Centres and undertaking zero based a robust investment grade credit rating, Ideas equity raise of 0.8 billion in January budgeting efforts across the Group.
providing reliable and cost-effective access 2018, which Vodafone Group will match at Importantly, we achieved this cost reduction to debt capital markets.
Our proposed the time the merger closes: combined with while maintaining robust commercial acquisition of Unitymedia in Germany and other adjustments, we currently estimate momentum, and despite a 63% increase cable operations in Central and Eastern a net capital injection into India of up to in mobile data traffic during the year.
Europe from Liberty Global does not alter 1 billion at closing in June 2018 thisfundamental commitment.
The option to sell Ideas 11.15% stake We believe that modestly higher financial 20 in Indus Towers to Bharti Infratel for leverage within an expected range out of 25 markets growing adjusted EBITDA approximately 0.8 billion in cash based of 2.5x3.0x net debt adjusted EBITDA moving faster than service revenue on the announcement on 25 April 2018 : forwards is fully justified by an improved alternatively, the JV can elect to receive organic growth outlook and a more resilient shares in the enlarged Indus Towers Ltd Our ambition is to continue to reduce net revenue mix, as the Group becomes both when the merger between Indus Towers operating costs over the long-term through more converged and more European following and Bharti Infratel completes by the end the Digital Vodafone programme, which the acquisition.
of fiscal 2019, subject to regulatory and aims to achieve savings by digitalising key Our determination to maintain a robust other approvals.
aspects of our customer management, investment grade credit rating is reflected technology management and operational in our intention to issue around 3 billion These measures will support the joint venture processes activities which at present of new mandatory convertible bonds, as well while it focuses on capturing operational represent over 8 billion of annual cash as hybrid debt securities which receive equity synergies as fast as possible: in addition, post costs.
We are increasing our investments credit from rating agencies, as part of the competitor rationalisation the Indian mobile in Agile cross-functional teams, digital tools financing for the acquisition.
We will have market has scope to recover, especially given and IT capabilities, in order to strengthen our the option to buy the mandatory convertible the cash outflows currently experienced ability to market directly to our customers bonds back in three years time, avoiding by the remaining operators.
However, via the web and the My Vodafone app.
By the equity dilution for our shareholders, providing the companys financial leverage is currently 2021 financial year, our target is that over 40% that we have sufficient headroom within our high on a pro-forma basis.
In the event that of our sales are via digital channels, up from targeted leverage range.
On a pro-forma in the future the joint venture partners just 11% today.
This will allow us to reduce the basis for the transaction with Liberty Global, decide to put in additional funding, the Group commissions paid to third-party distributors our leverage was 3.0x as at 31 March 2018. would draw upon the value of its stake and optimise the sizeof our retail footprint.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 19 My priorities: Third consecutive year of EBITDA margin expansion Delivering a DigitalVodafone, leading in a Gigabitworld Group adjusted EBITDA margin % I feel both privileged and hugely energised 31.6% by the opportunity to lead Vodafone, supported by a world class team, and I would like to recognise Vittorio for transforming 30.8% Vodafone into the company it is today, and personally thank him for his mentorship over the past 12 years.
Excluding EU roaming, 29.7% My immediate priorities will be to continue handset financing to work closely with Vittorio to conclude and settlements the India merger process, to make good progress in securing regulatory 28.4% 28.3% approvals for the acquisition of Liberty Globals cable assets, and to accelerate 2015 2016 2017 2018 theDigital Vodafone programme.
The Group has a clear strategic direction, On the basis that this concentration of auction Strong 2018 financial results so in the coming year I intend to focus activity does not change our long-term exceeding guidance on our organic performance, building on our average annual spectrum cost, which was leadership in next-generation networks and During the year we exceeded our initial 1.2 billion taking the average of the past mobile to place us at the heart of a converged guidance for 4-8% organic adjusted EBITDA nine years, we expect that our FCF generation Gigabit Society.
We need to deliver on our growth and around 5 billion of FCF prewill on average continue to cover our integration plans and the substantial synergies spectrum.
At our half year results we revised dividend obligations.
This provides the Board arising from our transactions in India, Germany our guidance upwards to around 10% with the confidence to reiterate our intention and Central and Eastern Europe.
At the organic adjusted EBITDA growth, stating to grow the dividend per share annually, same time, we must use Digital Vodafone that we expected to exceed 5 billion of FCF and recommend a further 2.0% increase in the to transform not only the world around us, pre-spectrum.
We more than met these dividend to 15.07eurocents for the year.
but also our own business enhancing revised targets, with 12% organic adjusted the experience for our customers, while EBITDA growth and 5.6 billion of FCF preLooking ahead simplifying and streamlining our internal spectrum on a guidance basis.
However, In the 2019 financial year, we expect to grow processes to achieve a much higher level it is important to note that excluding the adjusted EBITDA by 15% on an organic basis, of efficiency, and generate higher returns.
benefit of UK handset financing, settlements excluding the impact of UK handset financing in the UK and Germany and the impact and settlements, despite the arrival of a new of EU regulation, our organic adjusted EBITDA entrant in Italy and increased competition growth was closer to 8%.
This implies an adjusted EBITDA range Nick Read of 14.1514.65 billion at guidance exchange Chief Financial Officer A covered dividend rates, under current accounting standards.
During the year we invested 1.1 billion We expect to generate FCF pre-spectrum in spectrum, renewing our 2G spectrum in Italy of at least 5.2 billion.
and making a down-payment for the UK 5G During the coming year we will report our spectrum auction.
Consequently, our FCF results under the new IFRS15 accounting generation post spectrum and restructuring standard as well as under the prior accounting was 4.0 billion, higher than our cash dividend standards.
Under IFRS15, we expect our organic obligation of 3.9 billion.
In the coming two service revenue growth will be slightly higher, years we expect higher spectrum costs and our absolute adjusted EBITDA slightly lower, as we look to acquire 5G spectrum in the primarily due to the elimination of the impact 3.4-3.7GHz bands, as well the 700MHz band, of UK handset financing under our current across most European markets.
accounting standards, with no impact on FCF.
