MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 122 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC Report on the Company financial statements Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Our opinion In our opinion the Company financial statements, defined below: Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in December 2013: our opinion: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom we have not received all the information and explanations we require Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and for our audit: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or Companies Act 2006. returns adequate for our audit have not been received from This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder branches not visited by us: or of this report.
the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors What we have audited remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the The Company financial statements, which are prepared by Meggitt accounting records and returns.
PLC, comprise: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: and Directors remuneration the notes to the Company financial statements, which include a Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by information.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
The financial reporting framework applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards Other information in the Annual Report United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example on significant materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Company accounting estimates.
In making such judgements, they have made financial statements: or assumptions and considered future events.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the performing our audit: or notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the is otherwise misleading.
financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit obtains evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial Our responsibilities and those of the directors statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by set out on page 70, the directors are responsible for the preparation fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: of the Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Company disclosed: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
directors: and This report, including the opinions, has been prepared only for the the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 We read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in Report and Accounts the Annual Report to identify material giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other inconsistencies with the audited Company financial statements and to purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the consent in writing.
course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Other matter implications for our report.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Meggitt PLC for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the Company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Company financial Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor statements: and for and on behalf of  LLP the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
