MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Independent auditors report to the 71 members of Meggitt PLC Overview of our audit approach Report on the Group financial statements Materiality Our opinion We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine In our opinion the Group financial statements, defined below: the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of any misstatements, both individually and on the financial give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at statements as a whole.
31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 14 million, which have been properly prepared in accordance with International represents approximately 5% of profit before tax.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them any misstatements identified during our audit above 500,000 as well as have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder Overview of the scope of our audit of this report.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of a significant What we have audited number of reporting units, comprising the Groups operating The Group financial statements, which are prepared by Meggitt PLC, businesses and centralised functions.
In establishing our approach comprise: to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: or other audit teams within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by comprehensive income for the year then ended: other audit teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Consolidated whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a cash flow statement for the year then ended: and basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
the notes to the Group financial statements, which include a Based on our assessment of significance and risk a full scope audit summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory was performed over the complete financial information of 11 reporting information.
units, and targeted audit procedures over specific balances or The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their transactions were performed at a further 21 reporting units.
Together preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the these 32 reporting units accounted for 91% of Group profit before tax.
This together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, including testing the consolidation process, gave us sufficient Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on the Group financial been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the statements as a whole.
notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number What an audit of financial statements involves of subjective judgements, for example over significant accounting We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial evidence, forming our own judgements and evaluating the disclosures statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by in the financial statements.
This includes an assessment of: In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained disclosed: audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the substantive procedures or a combination of both.
directors: and We considered the following areas to be those that required particular the overall presentation of the financial statements.
focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with We read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they Report and Accounts the Annual Report to identify material considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to statements is set out on page 44. identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 72 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill and intangible assets represent the largest assets Our work included testing managements impairment models including the cash within the Groups balance sheet.
flows and evaluating and corroborating key inputs used in these models.
The directors assessment of the carrying value of goodwill We performed sensitivity analysis over the significant assumptions used in and intangible assets and the annual impairment review the the models to ascertain the point at which an impairment would be triggered, directors are required to perform is described in notes 18 to 20 and considered the likelihood of such a change in the key assumptions, either of the financial statements.
The significant assumptions included forecast sales over the next five years, the discount rate and the terminal growth rate.
This assessment of the carrying value of these assets is inherently subjective due to the judgement involved in estimating We read the disclosures in the financial statements included in note 18 in future cash flows and in calculating the discount rate to apply to respect of managements impairment testing and considered whether these these cash flows.
were consistent with the conclusions of our audit work and met the disclosure requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
Provisions for environmental, legal and other matters The Group has a number of material provisions in respect of The Group has an experienced team who are responsible for managing environmental, legal and other matters.
These are set out in environmental, legal and other matters and this expertise is supplemented by note 31 to the financial statements.
These provisions require the use of external third party experts where appropriate.
Our audit procedures the directors to make estimates of the likely future cash flows included an assessment of the experience and expertise of those third parties that will be required to settle the Groups obligations.
These involved in determining the provisions, and the scope of their work.
estimates are inherently subjective and therefore give rise to We evaluated the existing obligations of the Group, corroborating key facts greater audit risk.
surrounding these obligations including obtaining third party expert reports from the Groups external specialists where appropriate, assessed the extent of any insurance coverage and tested the associated provisions for example we recalculated provisions and independently assessed future cost estimates.
We also used our own experience of similar situations to develop an independent view of the adequacy of the provisions.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue We tested revenues recognised under contract accounting by checking that an recognition because of the pressure management may feel to appropriate amount of revenue had been recognised which fairly reflected the achieve results.
stage of completion of the contract.
We also evaluated the design of the key controls management has in place over contract accounting and tested some In assessing this risk for the Group we concluded that most of these controls.
significant areas of risk related to revenues where contract accounting principles are followed as this involves judgement We tested manual journal entries impacting revenue at in-scope reporting over future cost estimates and percentage of completion, units and at a Group level.
Our work specifically focused on understanding the and where adjustments to revenues are made as a result of reasons for the adjustments and corroborating the adjustments to appropriate manual journals.
Risk of management override of internal controls ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We considered whether there was evidence of bias by the directors in the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements.
We also assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We analysed manual journals at in scope reporting units to identify higher risk journals and we performed detailed testing over the higher risk manual journal entries identified.
We also tested any significant adjustments made to the financial statements at a Group level.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 73 Going concern Other information in the Annual Report Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our statement, set out on page 30, in relation to going concern.
We have opinion, information in the Annual Report is: nothing to report having performed our review.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group As noted in the Chief Financial Officers review, the directors have financial statements: or concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to performing our audit: or remain in operation and that the directors intend it to do so for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of is otherwise misleading.
our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, Responsibilities for the financial statements and these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to the audit continue as a going concern.
Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities Opinion on matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 set out on page 70, the directors are responsible for the preparation In our opinion the information given in the Strategic report and the of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give Directors report for the financial year for which the Group financial a true and fair view.
statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group statements.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Other matters on which we are required to report Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
by exception This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for Adequacy of information and explanations received the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into this responsibility.
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Directors remuneration consent in writing.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by Other matter law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of these responsibilities.
Meggitt PLC for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the Corporate governance statement information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the having been audited.
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
On page 70 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 44, as required by Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant matters that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and for and on behalf of  LLP how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors to report to you if, in our opinion: London 3 March 2014 the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
