Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 87 Annual Report 2013 Financials Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC Opinion on financial statements of Melrose Industries PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups Profit and the parent Companys loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, theConsolidated and the Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the related notes 1 to 30 to the consolidated financial statements and the related notes 1 to 9 to the Companyfinancial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 47 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as agoingconcern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups abilitytocontinue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, theallocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Provisions The judgement involved in the We challenged the assumptions underlying the recognition and valuation of provisions through checking recognition and valuation of and verifying the inputs used to calculate the provisions, including review of the nature and timings of formal the expected outcome of legal, restructuring plans, review of third party correspondence, discussion with the Groups lawyers and review environmental, restructuring ofagreements.
and warranty provisions Further we assessed the level of historical warranty claims and obtained the specific warranty terms and which require the exercise of conditions provided in order to ascertain whether the warranty provisions held were sufficient to cover all management judgement and obligations in existence at the year-end in light of known claims and standard warranty periods provided.
the use of estimates giving We also considered the adequacy of disclosures made in Note 20 to the financial statements.
rise to inherent subjectivity in the amounts recorded in the financialstatements.
Exceptional Items The presentation and consistency A sample of exceptional items including all material items has been agreed to source documentation and of costs and income within evaluated by the local and Group audit teams as to their nature in order to assess whether they are in line exceptional items is a key with the Groups accounting policy and also to ensure consistency of managements application of the determinant in the assessment policy with previous accounting periods.
In particular we ensure the reversal of any items originally booked of the quality of the Groups as exceptional and the reversal of any fair value items recorded on acquisition are appropriately classified as underlying earnings.
We also assessed whether the disclosures within the financial statements in Note 6 provide sufficient detail for the reader to understand the nature of these items.
Melrose Industries PLC 88 Annual Report 2013 Financials Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Goodwill and Intangibles The key assumptions used in the We assessed the assumptions used in the impairment model for goodwill and intangible assets, described assessment of the carrying value in Note 12, specifically including the cash flow projections, discount rates, perpetuity growth rates and the of goodwill and intangible assets sensitivities applied.
are determined with reference to Our procedures included reviewing forecast cash flows with reference to historical trading performance, judgemental factors such as future consulting with our valuation specialists and benchmarking assumptions such as the perpetual growth rate projected cash flows and the and discount rate to external macro-economic and market data.
Having ascertained the extent of change in appropriate discount rate.
those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the assets to be impaired by performing sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those assumptions arising and the adequacy of the disclosures made in Note 12 to the financial statements.
Recognition of deferred tax assets and accounting for uncertain tax positions Recognition of deferred tax We tested the appropriateness of the assumptions and estimates in relation to the likelihood of generating assets is based on managements future taxable profits to support the recognition of deferred tax assets as described in Note 21 to the judgements of the availability of financial statements.
We considered those assumptions including the expected timing of disposals and future taxable profits.
supporting forecasts and estimates as well as the appropriateness of the tax disclosures.
The value of the tax provisions We worked with our tax audit specialists in relation to the recognition of deferred tax assets and to appraise recorded in respect of a number the likely outcome of technical tax treatments, including the review of correspondence with the revenue of uncertain tax positions which authorities to assess the reasonableness of the provisions made.
require judgements in respect of the likely outcome of negotiations with and enquiries from various tax authorities.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 67.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 89 Annual Report 2013 Financials Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 13 million, which is approximately 5.7% of headline profit before tax, and less than 1% of equity.
We use headline profit before tax to provide a stable basis for materiality that reflects the focus of the users of the financial statements.
This excludes the effect of separately disclosed exceptional items, as these can be volatile, and the amortisation of acquired intangibles, as excluding the relatively high amortisation charge, given the acquisitive nature of the Group, provides a more comparable measure with similar organisations and is consistent with the profit measure most relevant to analysts and investors.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 250,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting to them on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financialstatements.
An overview of the scope of our audit The Groups 72 locations are organised into the five continuing divisions described in the Divisional Review on pages 22 to 31 of this Annual Report.
Our Group audit scope focused primarily on audit work at 25 locations.
18 of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining seven were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and on the materiality of the Groups business operations at those locations.
The 18 locations subject to full audit represent business units within the each of the Groups continuing reportable segments and accounted for 63% of the continuing Groups revenue, 70% of the total operating segments continuing headline operating profit i. e. before central costs.
The seven locations subject to specified audit procedures account for 24% of the continuing Groups revenue and 21% of the continuing Groups headline operating profit.
Full audit or audit procedures undertaken at the 25 locations or performed centrally by the Group audit team accounted for 94% of the Groups net assets.
The locations subject to full audit or specified audit procedures were selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work and specified audit procedures at the 25 locations were executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were much lower than Group materiality and appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned.
The senior statutory auditor or other senior members of the Group audit team visited 12 of the largest locations for the audit, which include some locations where specified audit procedures were performed.
The Group audit team met with the Management teams including Managing Directors and Finance Directors of all the continuing businesses during the year end audit.
The senior statutory auditor also held audit close meetings with all of the five continuing businesses, which cover all locations.
In years when we do not visit a component within our Group Audit scope: we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out review procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Melrose Industries PLC 90 Annual Report 2013 Financials Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the AnnualReport is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 91 Annual Report 2013 Financials Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for ourreport.
Nigel Mercer, ACA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 5 March 2014
