INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Key risks The risks of material misstatement that have had the Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified greatest effect on our audit were: We have audited the financial statements of Merlin Entertainments plc for the year ended 28 December 2013 set Valuation of non-current assets: out on pages 84 to 143.
In our opinion: Recognition of deferred tax assets: and Finance costs.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 28 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Our response - Our audit procedures included, among others, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards an analysis of the Groups previous ability to forecast cash as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by generation accurately and challenging the reasonableness of the EU : current forecasts.
This challenge included an assessment of the the parent Company financial statements have been properly Groups future plans for the business and a comparison of prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted those inputs against similar past investments made by the Accounting Practice and the provisions of the Companies Act Group to assess the level of the risk inherent in the 2006: and current strategies.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as Benchmarking was performed on the data used by the Group regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the to calculate its discount rates to market data, such as publicly IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We performed a sensitivity analysis of both discount rates and In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements forecast cash flows and the resulting headroom across all the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on valuations and considered the appropriateness of the related our audit were as follows.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment Valuation of non-current assets 2,344 million 2012: 2,297 million assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report and page 107 inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
accounting policy and financial disclosures.
Deferred tax assets recognition 56 million 2012: 34 million The risk - A history of business combinations resulting in Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 96 significant goodwill balances and the capital intensive nature of accounting policy and page 97 financial disclosures.
the Groups business model exposes the Group to a risk that the value of the Groups goodwill, intangible asset and The risk - In previous years, the Group had significant property, plant and equipment balances may not prove to be unrecognised deferred tax assets from unclaimed capital recoverable in full.
This risk is prevalent as inherent uncertainty allowances, primarily in the UK.
These were not recognised is involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, due due to the level of uncertainty over the availability of future to the Groups new attractions often being in unproven taxable profits against which these allowances would be locations and the unpredictable impact of environmental, utilised.
The Group has revised these forecasts, taking into macro and micro economic, and social trends on trading account the restructuring of the Groups operations in performance.
As these cash flows and discount rates are the connection with the IPO, leading to the recognition of further key assumptions forming the basis of the assessment of deferred tax assets at the balance sheet date.
The amount of recoverability, this is one of the key judgemental areas that the additional deferred tax asset recognised is based on our audit concentrated on.
the Groups forecast of taxable profits which is inherently subjective.
81 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Merlin Entertainments plc only Our response - Our audit procedures included, among In light of the above we considered the appropriateness of the others, assessment of the Groups forecast of taxable profits Groups assessment of the likely future repayment date of the and challenging the forecasts of trading profits and capital debt, making comparison to past behaviours.
We considered spend in these estimates by taking into consideration the the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of Groups historical ability to forecast accurately, taking into the refinancing.
account the inherent uncertainty of future looking estimates of trading performance.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Using our own tax specialists, we evaluated the resulting The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was forecast tax positions and utilisation of capital allowances for set at 12,000,000.
This has been determined with reference to a reasonableness, given our understanding of the legislation benchmark of revenue of which it represents 1%, which we surrounding the use of such allowances.
consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing financial performance of the Group.
We performed sensitivity analysis of forecast taxable profits and capital spend in assessing the forecasts above to assess the We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all likelihood of misstatement and the appropriateness of the corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through Groups disclosure around the judgement.
our audit with a value in excess of 600,000, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe Finance costs 109 million 2012: 126 million warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report and page 112 accounting policy and page 113 financial disclosures.
Audits for group reporting purposes, including those performed by the Group audit team, were performed at the key reporting The risk - During the year the Group has refinanced its debt.
components in the following countries: UK, USA, Australia, Accounting standards require that the Group assesses whether Denmark, Germany and Italy.
These audits covered 70% of total the refinancing represents a continuation of the existing facility Group revenue and 67% of total Group assets.
In addition, or the repayment of the original facility and the inception of a specified procedures were performed at locations representing new facility.
This depends on the significance of the changes to a further 12% of revenues.
the future cash flows and affects the way previous financing fees are treated.
In addition the Group makes a judgement of The Group audit team carried out audits covering 35% of total the expected life of the new facility.
This affects the period Group revenue, including the only individually financially significant over which the refinancing costs, and if carried forwards, the component, Merlin Attractions Operations Limited.
The largest previous financing fees, are expensed.
component not audited by the Group audit team directly represents 8% of Group revenue.
These judgements affect the amount of finance costs recognised in the year.
For the remaining sites, the largest of which individually contributed 11,000,000 to Group revenue, analytical procedures Our response - In respect of the Groups accounting for the were performed at Group level.
refinancing, our audit procedures included, among others, corroborating the Groups calculation of the cash flow impact The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key of the refinancing by reference to the underlying contracts and reporting components of the company were all performed to the Groups key assumptions, such as the term of the facility, in local materiality levels.
These local materiality levels were set accordance with the requirements of the accounting standards.
individually for each component by the Group audit team and We made a qualitative assessment of the terms of the new ranged from 750,000 to 4,000,000. facility to assess whether any other changes in terms indicated the facility was, in substance, repaid and reissued.
Scope of our audit by Revenue In respect of the Groups judgement relating to the life of the revised facility, our procedures included, among others, an Group team audited, 35% assessment of the Groups long term business plans and forecasts compared to their previous ability to accurately Component team audited, 35% forecast the timing of future refinancing, taking into account Specified procedures other strategic plans of the Group that could trigger the need performed, 12% for a future refinancing, such as significant acquisitions or new Analytical procedures, 18% openings.
We read the facilities agreement to identify any economic incentives for early repayment.
82 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Merlin Entertainments plc only Detailed audit and specified procedure instructions were sent to Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: component auditors.
These instructions covered the significant the Directors statement, set out on page 79, in relation to audit areas that should be covered by these audits which going concern: and included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 44 above and set out the information required to be reported back and 49 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine to the Group audit team.
Telephone or in person meetings were provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code also held with the auditors at these locations.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies We have nothing to report in respect of the above Act 2006 is unmodified responsibilities.
In our opinion: Scope and responsibilities the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities has been properly prepared in accordance with the Statement set out on page 80, the directors are responsible for Companies Act 2006: and the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied the information given in the Strategic Report and the that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope Directors Report for the financial year for which the of an audit of financial statements is provided on the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Reporting Councils website at financial statements.
uk auditscopeukprivate We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which This report is made solely to the Companys members as a we are required to report by exception body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are identified other information in the annual report that contains a incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors Mark Summerfield Senior Statutory Auditor statement that they consider that the annual report and for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Chartered Accountants shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business Dukes Keep, Marsh Lane, model and strategy: or Southampton the section of the annual report describing the work of the SO14 3EX Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
26 February 2014 Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
83 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTENTS PRIMARY STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 85 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 86 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 87 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 88 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 89 SECTION 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION 90 SECTION 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR 92 2.1 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 92 2.2 EXCEPTIONAL AND NON-TRADING ITEMS 95 2.3 TAXATION 96 2.4 EARNINGS PER SHARE 99 SECTION 3 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 100 SECTION 4 OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 103 4.1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 103 4.2 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 105 4.3 IMPAIRMENT TESTING 107 4.4 WORKING CAPITAL 109 4.5 PROVISIONS 111 SECTION 5 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING 112 5.1 NET DEBT 112 5.2 BORROWINGS 112 5.3 LEASE OBLIGATIONS 113 5.4 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 115 5.5 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS 116 5.6 FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS AND FAIR VALUE ANALYSIS 117 5.7 EQUITY AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 123 5.8 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS 124 SECTION 6 OTHER NOTES 127 6.1 INVESTMENTS 127 6.2 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 127 6.3 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 131 6.4 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 132 6.5 NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 133 6.6 ULTIMATE PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION 133 6.7 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 133 6.8 SUBSIDIARY AND JOINT VENTURE UNDERTAKINGS 134 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 144 FINANCIAL RECORD 145 84
