Governance Overview Strategic report Independent Auditors Report Group financial statements Further information Independent Auditors Report Our opinion on the financial U The risk: The Group develops Groups disclosures about the degree statements is unmodified and sells properties in territories of judgment involved in arriving at outside the UK.
Local laws, business the revenue recognised and whether We have audited the financial practice, and regulatory processes they met the requirements of relevant statements of Millennium & Copthorne often govern the trigger for revenue accounting standards.
Hotels plc for the year ended recognition.
For real estate sales, 31 December 2013 set out on pages 66 Valuation of hotel assets revenue is recognised when the to 140.
In our opinion: 2,020.8m risks and rewards of ownership U the financial statements give a true are transferred to the buyer, which Refer to the Audit Committee Report, and fair view of the state of the is usually on the transfer of the note 2.3 Summary of significant Groups and of the parent companys legal title.
However, depending on accounting policies, note 3 Accounting affairs as at 31 December 2013 and the complexity and length of local estimates and judgments and note 12 of the Groups profit for the year then contract completion processes, financial disclosures.
ended: recognition can be appropriate at an U The risk: The Group earns most of earlier point in the process.
Significant U the Group financial statements have its revenue from operating its hotels, judgment and interpretation of been properly prepared in accordance which is an inherently cyclical market.
complex contract terms is required with International Financial Reporting In 2013, the Group faced challenging to determine when the recognition Standards as adopted by the criteria are met.
Therefore, property economic conditions, pricing European Union: pressures, and weakening demand sales revenue recognition is one of U the parent company financial in its Asian market.
Furthermore, the key judgmental areas on which statements have been properly our audit is concentrated.
hotel closures and refurbishment prepared in accordance with UK programmes resulted in reduced U Our response: We tested Accounting Standards: and supply in some of its bigger hotels all significant property revenue in the US and Asia.
Therefore, due U the financial statements have been recognised in 2013 principally the to the continued declining trading prepared in accordance with the completion of the Glyndebourne performance for some of the Groups requirements of the Companies development.
Our procedures hotel properties, there was an Act 2006 and, as regards the Group included, among others, assessing indication that the value of long-lived financial statements, Article 4 of the whether the revenue recognition assets for these hotels may not be IAS Regulation.
policies adopted complied with recoverable.
The Group engaged relevant accounting standards.
Our external valuers, and an impairment Our assessment of risks of Asia component auditors examined assessment was performed over its material misstatement the contracts and assessed the owned hotels portfolio, resulting in impact of terms relevant to revenue In arriving at our audit opinion above on an impairment loss of 20.7m.
We used our component the financial statements the risks of to the inherent uncertainty involved auditors to assist us in obtaining an material misstatement that had the in forecasting and discounting future understanding of local real estate greatest effect on our audit were cash flows, as well as the subjectivity laws and regulations, and their impact as follows.
of key assumptions in the valuation on revenue recognition triggers in the models applied, this is one of the key relevant market.
We obtained a copy Revenue recognition on property judgmental areas on which our audit of the temporary occupation permit sales 299.5m is concentrated.
relating to the Glyndebourne revenue.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report, U Our response: Our procedures We then considered whether the note 2.3 Summary of significant revenue recognition criteria had been included, among others, using our accounting policies, note 3 Accounting own valuation specialists to assist us met, particularly around transfer of estimates and judgments and note 5 in assessing the appropriateness of risks and rewards to the buyer.
the valuation model used, including considered the adequacy of the 61 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Independent Auditors Report continued with accounting requirements and compliance with relevant accounting judgment, and is determined by standards and alignment to market reference to future intentions and the business practice.
Our valuation specialists also Groups business model.
Investment key assumptions used in determining helped us assess the scope of work properties generally are stated at fair fair value.
This included a comparison value and at every period end the of forecast rental rates, market performed, competency, professional qualifications, experience and change in the fair value is reflected in growth, occupancy rates, and real independence of the external experts the income statement of the Group.
estate sales prices with externally derived data.
We also performed our used by the Group.
In some cases, the Group invests in properties under construction.
Valuing own assessment of other key inputs With input from our valuation these properties is complicated such as discount rates and terminal specialists, we challenged the key by lack of comparable market multipliers, and assessed whether the assumptions used in determining the transactions, or inability to forecast Groups disclosures properly reflected recoverable amount of the assets, expected cash flows sufficiently the risks inherent in the calculations which was generally considered to be reliably until the construction is and met the requirements of relevant their value in use.
Therefore, for properties accounting standards.
comparison of occupancy rates, under construction, judgment is revenue per available room, market Tax liabilities and tax charge made to determine whether a cost growth and expected inflation with deferred tax liability - 202.8m, model may be more appropriate.
externally derived data including external current tax liability 40.5m, The Group engaged external hotel industry reports.
We also total tax charge - 28.6m experts to value its investment performed our own assessment of properties.
The valuation models other key inputs such as estimated Refer to the Audit Committee Report, applied are complex and sensitive note 2.3 Summary of significant future costs, discount rates and terminal to assumptions around occupancy accounting policies, note 3 Accounting multipliers, and applied sensitivities to rates, market growth, sales and key assumptions to assess the impact estimates and judgments, and notes 10 rental rates, as well as discount rates on available headroom.
We considered and 26 financial disclosures.
On this the Groups budgeting procedures upon U The risk: The Groups businesses basis, classification and valuation which the forecasts are based and operate in numerous tax jurisdictions.
of investment properties are key assessed the principles and integrity of judgmental areas on which our audit Differences in tax laws in those the discounted cash flow models.
We jurisdictions may have a significant is concentrated.
also considered whether the Groups impact on how the Group calculates disclosures in respect of the sensitivity U Our response: We considered its deferred tax and current tax of models to changes in key whether classification of assets as liabilities and, as a result, its tax assumptions properly reflected the risks investment properties is appropriate.
The interpretation of these inherent in those calculations and met To arrive at our conclusion, our laws is complex.
Furthermore, the requirements of relevant accounting procedures included, among others, the Group recognises liabilities for standards.
holding discussions with senior anticipated tax issues based on members of the finance team estimates of the additional taxes Classification and valuation of and Directors, inspecting internal that are likely to become due, which investment properties 163.5m business plans, and considering requires judgment and interpretation key terms of external contracts and Refer to the Audit Committee Report, of specific tax laws.
In order to audit the note 2.3 Summary of significant tax outcome of these matters is valuations we assessed the scope different from the amounts that were accounting policies, note 3 Accounting of work performed, competency, estimates and judgments, and note 14 initially recorded, such differences professional qualifications, experience financial disclosures.
will affect the current tax and or and independence of the external deferred tax liabilities in the period in U The risk: Classification of an asset experts used by the Group We which such determination is made.
as investment property rather than analysed the description of the Therefore, this is one of the key as Property, Plant & Equipment which valuation methodology applied, judgmental areas on which our audit is carried at amortised cost requires and considered whether it is in line is concentrated.
62 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Overview Strategic report Independent Auditors Report Group financial statements Further information U Our response: In this area our audit considerations for members of the component and ranged from 0.1m procedures included, among others, company in assessing the financial to 6.5m.
utilising our own tax specialists, performance of the Group.
Materiality Detailed instructions were sent to all the who carried out a risk assessment represents 2.8% of Group profit before auditors in these locations.
These tax and 5.5% of Group profit before tax to identify any tax issues which instructions covered the significant may affect the Group.
For all tax adjusted for the one-off item in relation areas that should be covered by the matters that we identified through to sale of the Glyndebourne component auditors which included the discussions with the Directors, development properties of 139.3m, relevant risks of material misstatement consideration of tax correspondence which is disclosed in the annual report.
detailed above and set out the and other key communications We agreed with the audit committee to information required to be reported back board minutes, internal management to the Group audit team.
The Group report to it all uncorrected reports, as well as those identified misstatements we identified through audit team carried out reviews of audit in other aspects of our audit work, our audit with a value in excess of files for Singapore, including the we critically assessed the Groups 375,000, in addition to other audit outcome of the Singapore teams interpretation of tax laws by involving misstatements below that threshold review of the Taiwan, South Korea and our own tax specialists.
We assessed that we believe warranted reporting on New Zealand audit files.
The Group the outcomes of recent cases in qualitative grounds.
In addition we team also visited Singapore and the US respect of the specific tax matters considered whether any misstatements locations during the planning stages of to determine the reasonableness corrected by management identified the audit.
Telephone planning and of the current tax liability recorded during the course of the audit should be closing meetings were also held with against tax exposures.
We have also the auditors at these locations and the communicated to the Audit Committee considered the methodologies applied to assist it in fulfilling its governance other locations that were not for calculating deferred tax in foreign responsibilities.
regions, and tested the accuracy of the supporting calculations.
We Audits for Group reporting purposes Our opinion on other matters agreed all significant elements of were performed by component auditors prescribed by the Companies the tax charge to support such as at the key reporting components in the Act 2006 is unmodified local tax computations audited by our following territories: United Kingdom: component auditors, and audited Asia including Singapore, Philippines, In our opinion: all significant differences between South Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan, U the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the statutory and effective rates Malaysia, Indonesia, and Thailand : New Zealand: and USA.
In addition, reviews has been properly prepared in in each jurisdiction, to ensure that adjustments to accounting profit for Group reporting purposes were accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and are in accordance with accounting performed by component teams in the standards and local laws.
We also Middle East and China.
Together, these U the information given in the Strategic assessed whether the Groups Group procedures covered 95% of total Report and the Directors Report disclosures met the requirements of Group revenue, 98% of Group profit for the financial year for which the relevant accounting standards and are before taxation, and over 96% of Group financial statements are prepared in line with Group tax policies.
is consistent with the financial statements.
The segment disclosures in note 5 set Our application of materiality out the individual significance of a and an overview of the scope of We have nothing to report in specific territory.
our audit respect of the matters on which The audits and reviews undertaken for we are required to report by The materiality for the Group financial Group reporting purposes at the key exception statements as a whole was set at reporting components of the Group 7.5m.
This has been determined with Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are were all performed to local materiality reference to a benchmark of Group required to report to you if, based on the levels set by, or agreed with, the Group profit before taxation, which we knowledge we acquired during our audit team.
These local materiality levels consider to be one of the principal audit, we have identified other were set individually for each 63 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Independent Auditors Report continued information in the annual report that U the part of the Corporate Governance contains a material inconsistency with Statement on pages 37 relating to the either that knowledge or the financial companys compliance with the nine statements, a material misstatement of provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report We have nothing to report in respect of to you if: the above responsibilities.
U we have identified material inconsistencies between the Scope of report and knowledge we acquired during our responsibilities audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual As explained more fully in the Directors report and financial statements Responsibilities Statement set out on taken as a whole is fair, balanced page 60, the Directors are responsible and understandable and provides for the preparation of the financial the information necessary for statements and for being satisfied that shareholders to assess the Groups they give a true and fair view.
A performance, business model and description of the scope of an audit of strategy: or financial statements is provided on the U the Audit Committee Report does Financial Reporting Councils website at not appropriately address matters www.
This report is made solely to the communicated by us to the Audit companys members as a body and is Committee.
subject to important explanations and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are disclaimers regarding our required to report to you if, in our responsibilities, published on our opinion: website at www.
com uk U adequate accounting records have not auditscopeukco2013a, which are been kept by the parent company, or incorporated into this report as if set out returns adequate for our audit have in full and should be read to provide an not been received from branches not understanding of the purpose of this visited by us: or report, the work we have undertaken U the parent company financial and the basis of our opinions.
statements and the part of the Steve Masters Senior Statutory Auditor Directors Remuneration Report to be for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, audited are not in agreement with the Statutory Auditor accounting records and returns: or Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square U certain disclosures of directors London E14 5GL remuneration specified by law are not 20 February 2014 made: or U we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: U the Directors statement, set out on page 34, in relation to going concern: and 64 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013
