Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc Opinion on financial statements of Mitchells & Butlers plc An overview of the scope of our audit and our assessment In our opinion: of risks of material misstatement Our Group audit scope focused on the UK retail operating business and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the UK property business, both of which were subject to a full scope audit Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 28 September 2013 and for the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2013 and are managed from the of the Groups profit for the 52 weeks then ended: same location.
The UK based divisions account for 100% of the Groups the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in non-current assets and 97% of the Groups revenue.
Audits of these accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards divisions are performed using a local statutory materiality which is lower IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: than Group materiality.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting The assessed risks of material misstatement and the way in which we Practice: and scoped our responses are described below.
These are the risks that had the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Audit risks and key judgements Our response The financial statements comprise the Group and Company balance The key assumptions and We worked with our property sheets, the Group income statement, the Group statement of estimates used in the valuation valuation specialists and comprehensive income, the Group statement of changes in equity, the of the pub estate.
The market managements external Group cash flow statement, and the related notes 1 to 29 on the Group value is determined with reference advisers, CBRE, to challenge the financial statements, and the related notes 1 to 10 on the Company to judgemental factors such as methodology as described in note financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been future projected income levels and 14 to the financial statements and applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable comparable market transactions.
underlying assumptions to the pub law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting estate valuation.
This included framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company assessing the appropriateness of financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting any changes to assumptions since Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the prior period and benchmarking valuations to comparable market Going concern transactions where data was As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors available.
We also tested the statement on page 40 that the Group is a going concern.
integrity of the data used in the valuations by agreeing a sample We confirm that: to source data and reviewed post period end trading to verify that it we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or supported the valuations as at conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability 28 September 2013. to continue as a going concern which we believe would need to The value of the tax provisions We utilised our tax specialists to be disclosed in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European recorded in respect of a number appraise the likely outcome of Union: and of uncertain tax positions which technical tax treatments and we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern require judgements in respect of reviewed correspondence basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements the likely outcome of negotiations with the revenue authorities to is appropriate.
with and enquiries from tax assess the reasonableness of authorities.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, The actuarial assumptions used in We tested the actuarial this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as the measurement of the Groups assumptions used to calculate a going concern.
net pension liability which are the net pension liability using our inherently judgemental, such actuarial specialists to perform Our application of materiality as long-term interest rates a critical assessment of the key We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 9m, which is and inflation.
assumptions as described in approximately 5% of pre-tax profit before exceptional items and other note 8 to the financial statements adjustments including impairment.
These items are excluded due to their with reference to comparable volatility and this is consistent with the Groups internal and external market data.
reporting to facilitate a better understanding of the underlying trading performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would We considered whether the report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 180,000, restatement of the prior period as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted end pension deficit, as described reporting on qualitative grounds.
in note 8 to the financial statements, appropriately applied the recent guidance on additional contributions as issued by the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 66 Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the matters.
The Audit Committees consideration of these judgements is Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 41 the Directors are responsible for the preparation the information given in the Directors report and the Strategic of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and business review for the 52 week period for which the and fair view.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial the part of the Report on Directors remuneration to be audited statements, in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys in our opinion: members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we have not received all the information and explanations we we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the require for our audit: or Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures accounting records and returns.
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys Directors remuneration circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
made or the part of the Report on Directors remuneration to be audited In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under the the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the Report on financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently Directors remuneration.
We have nothing to report arising from these materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the matters or our review.
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Corporate governance statement inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance Stephen Griggs with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have Senior Statutory Auditor nothing to report arising from our review.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report London, United Kingdom Under the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, 25 November 2013 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67
