GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Moneysupermarket.
com Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 51 to 80.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: MoneySavingExpert.
com contingent remuneration payable Consolidated Statement of Financial Position accrual 11.1 million, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income charge 8.6 million Refer to page 32 Audit Committee Report, page 55 accounting policy and page 69 financial disclosures.
The risk The contingent remuneration arising from the MoneySavingExpert.
com acquisition is dependent upon achievement of a number of non-financial measures and is in part at the discretion of the Board, subject to continued employment over a 3 year period.
The judgemental nature of the estimate is considered a significant audit risk.
Our response - Our audit procedures included, among others, comparing the relevant non-financial measures of MoneySavingExpert.
com at 31 December 2013 as reported to the Board to the remuneration criteria and challenging the Groups assessment of the potential outcomes with reference to the actual performance of each measure as at the year end.
In respect of the discretionary element, we inspected board minutes and received a specific Board Representation to confirm that the estimate is consistent with the expectations of the Board.
We considered the sufficiency and adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the estimate of the contingent remuneration recognised, particularly the method of estimation, significant assumptions used and degree of estimation uncertainty, as required by relevant accounting standards.
Revenue 225.6 million Refer to page 33 Audit Committee Report, page 56 accounting policy and page 68 financial disclosures.
The risk - Revenue is recognised predominantly from internet lead generation click based revenues.
A revenue accrual is recognised where the revenue for a click is dependent on a successful application to the end provider, and the success has not been confirmed by the period end.
The accrual requires an estimation of the number of successful conversions.
Revenue recognition, including the existence of revenue, is considered to be a significant audit risk because of the inherent complexities of the click recording system and the judgements made to estimate unbilled revenue at the period end.
Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, testing the general IT control environment of the Groups information system, where click activity is recorded, to assess whether general IT controls were in place and were operating effectively across the period.
This assessment supported the level of detailed testing by our own IT specialists to assess whether the system was recording clicks in the correct period, and that the number of clicks on which the Group is basing its revenue accrual estimate were derived from a system that is operating effectively.
This detailed testing involved re-performance of click-throughs in the live environment.
We selected a statistical sample of the year end revenue accruals and agreed these to confirmatory evidence, which included cash receipts and confirmation of successful applications from the end providers, which allowed us to make an assessment of the validity and accuracy of the total revenue accrual.
We compared total revenue recognised to our expectations based on cash receipts and movement of trade receivables and revenue accruals.
We analysed movements in revenue at an operating segment level based on changes in visitor numbers and transactions, and investigated unusual trends.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of click-based revenue recognition.
Carrying amount of goodwill and intangibles 174.3 million Refer to page 33 Audit Committee Report, pages 56-57 accounting policy and pages 66-68 financial disclosures.
The risk The carrying amount of goodwill and intangibles is reviewed for impairment annually using value in use models.
The Group performs the review at an individual cash generating unit CGU level, which the Group has defined as the five operating segments as detailed in Note 4.
We focused our detailed work on the Money and MoneySavingExpert CGUs, as these CGUs had the lowest headroom or were most sensitive to reasonable changes in key inputs, primarily being the cashflow growth assumed over the next three years.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of the assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Our response In this area our audit procedures included, among others, testing of the Groups budgeting procedures upon which the forecasts are based and the principles and integrity of the Group and CGUs discounted cash flow models.
We evaluated the assumptions and methodologies used by the Group, by making our own assessments in relation to key inputs such as projected revenue growth and discount rates, as well as performing break-even analysis on the assumptions.
We compared the sum of the discounted cash flows to the Groups market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of those cash flows.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of impairment testing and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in the key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the key assumptions and the requirements of relevant accounting standards.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 5.1 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of Group revenue of which it represents 2.3% which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected differences we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 0.25 million, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group consists of 9 components which are all audited by one audit team at the Groups head office.
97% of the Group revenues are generated from the main trading component, Moneysupermarket.
com Limiteds component materiality is 5.0 million.
We audit the remaining components to materiality ranging from 2.0 million to 5.0 million.
The Group audit scope covers 100% of Group revenues, 99% of Group profit before taxation, and 100% of total Group assets.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement or fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for out audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 25, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 28 -31 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 26, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Stuart Burdass Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants St James Square, Manchester, M2 6DS 3 March 2014 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 50
