DIrECTorS rEporT 85 InDEpEnDEnT auDITorS rEporT To ThE MEMBErS oF Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS pLC onLy opinionS And ConCluSionS AriSing Provisions and contingent liabilities Refer to page 56 Audit Committee report, page 135 accounting policy froM our Audit note and pages 135 and 137 financial disclosures 1. our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified The risk: provisions are held in respect of closure and restructuring costs, We have audited the financial statements of Morgan advanced environmental issues and other matters including the settlement of Materials plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise European class actions, and amounted to 17.7 million at 31 December the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement 2013.
The financial statements also disclose contingent liabilities in of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes respect of legal claims in the uSa, Canada and Europe which have not in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement been provided for on the basis that they are not considered to qualify of Cash Flows, the parent company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
The application of accounting standards In our opinion: to determine whether a provision should be recorded and, if so, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the the amount, is inherently subjective.
groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: Our response: our audit procedures included, among others, a critical the group financial statements have been properly prepared in assessment of the extent to which the Directors estimates take into accordance with International Financial reporting Standards as account a balanced assessment of the latest available information adopted by the European union IFrSs as adopted by the Eu : and the accuracy and reliability of the sources of that information.
the parent company financial statements have been properly We corroborated the appropriateness of the assumptions by reference prepared in accordance with uK accounting Standards: and to third party confirmations and legal advice, where available, and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with considered whether our understanding of the business gained the requirements of the Companies act 2006 and, as regards throughout the audit process corroborated the provisions recorded, the group financial statements, article 4 of the IaS regulation.
or indicated that further challenge was warranted.
We considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in respect of provisions and 2. our assessment of risks of material misstatement contingent liabilities.
We also assessed whether the groups disclosures In arriving at our audit opinion above on the group financial statements, about provisions and the treatment of movements on provisions in the the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our income statement for the year were appropriate.
group audit were as follows: Tax liabilities Carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets Refer to page 56 Audit Committee report, page 103 accounting policy Refer to page 56 Audit Committee report, page 106 accounting policy note and pages 103, 109 and 136 financial disclosures note and pages 106 to 108 financial disclosures The risk: The group is subject to income taxes in a large number The risk: The carrying value of goodwill is assessed for impairment at of jurisdictions.
The level of current tax and deferred tax recognised least annually and, together with other intangible assets, whenever requires judgments as to the likely outcome of decisions to be made there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
The impairment by the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in calculations are based on the discounted projected cash flows of the which the group operates.
There is a risk that the judgements on which relevant cash-generating units.
There is inherent uncertainty involved the provisions are based do not take into account or do not properly in forecasting and discounting future cash flows and judgement involved reflect the latest available, reliable information or an appropriate in determining how goodwill should be split between the parts of application of relevant tax legislation, and are either under or overstated the business expected to generate those cash flows following the as a result.
The key assumptions, estimates and judgements on which the impairment calculations are based, which Our response: our audit procedures included, among others, challenging are inherently uncertain, could be inappropriate and the carrying values the appropriateness of the directors assumptions and estimates in goodwill and other intangible assets could be overstated as a result.
relation to tax assets and liabilities, by critically assessing the range of possible amounts that may be assessed under tax laws, likely settlements Our response: our audit procedures included, among others, testing the based on the latest correspondence with the relevant tax authorities and principles and mathematical integrity of the groups discounted cash flow the complexity of the relevant tax legislation.
We involved our tax model and comparing the groups assumptions to externally derived data specialist in analysing and challenging the assumptions used to determine as well as our own assessments in relation to the allocation of goodwill tax provisions because they have relevant experience of the application to cash-generating units, and key inputs such as projected economic of the international and local legislation by the relevant authorities growth, competition, cost inflation and discount rates.
We also assessed whether the groups tax disclosures sensitivity of the impairment calculation to changes in the judgements see notes 8 and 14 are appropriate and in accordance with relevant and assumptions used by the directors.
We also assessed whether the accounting standards.
groups disclosures see note 12 about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS finAnCiAl direCtorS StrAtegiC overview StAteMentS report report 86 DIrECTorS rEporT InDEpEnDEnT auDITorS rEporT To ThE MEMBErS oF Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS pLC onLy 3. our application of materiality and an overview of the In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge scope of our audit we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken 3.2 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the of group profit before taxation of which it represents 5% which we information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of performance, business model and strategy: or the company in assessing the financial performance of the group.
the audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value under the Companies act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in excess of 0.21 million, in addition to other audit misstatements below in our opinion: that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received audits for group reporting purposes were performed by component from branches not visited by us: or auditors at the key reporting components in the following countries: the parent company financial statements and the part of the uK, uSa, China, germany, France, and australia and by the group audit Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement team in the uK.
In addition, specified audit procedures were performed with the accounting records and returns: or by component auditors in uSa and Brazil.
These group procedures certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are covered 90% of total group revenue: 76% of group profit before not made: or taxation: and 75% of total group assets.
The segment disclosures we have not received all the information and explanations we in note 3 set out the individual significance of a specific country.
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting under the Listing rules we are required to review: components of the group were all performed to materiality levels set by, the directors statement, set out on page 45, in relation to going or agreed with, the group audit team.
These materiality levels were concern: set individually for each component and ranged from 0.1 million to the part of the Corporate governance Statement on pages 49 3.2 million.
relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the uK Corporate governance Code specified for our review: and Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on locations.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that directors remuneration.
should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
required to be reported back to the group audit team.
The group audit team visited the following locations: uK, uSa and China.
Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors at these locations and the Scope and responsibilities majority of the other locations that were not physically visited.
as explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities Statement set out on pages 83 and 84, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that 4. our opinion on other matters prescribed by the they give a true and fair view.
a description of the scope of an audit Companies Act 2006 of accounts is provided on the Financial reporting Councils website at In our opinion: www.
This report is made solely to the the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has Companys members as a body and subject to important explanations been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies act and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website 2006: and at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have is consistent with the financial statements.
undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
5. we have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Anthony Sykes Senior Statutory Auditor under ISas uK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based for and on behalf of KpMg audit plc, Statutory auditor on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified Chartered accountants other information in the annual report that contains a material 15 Canada Square inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, London, E14 5gL a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
13 February 2014 Morgan Morgan a aD DV Van anCED M CED Ma aTE TEr rIIa aLS LS a annu nnua aL L r rE Epor porT T 20 201 13 3 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CoNTENTS 88 Consolidated income statement 89 Consolidated statement of comprehensive Income 90 Consolidated balance sheet 91 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 92 Consolidated statement of cash flows 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 38 Company balance sheet 1 39 Notes to the company balance sheet 1 48 group statistical information 149 Cautionary statement 1 50 glossary of terms 151 Shareholder information ANNuAL rEporT 2013 MorgAN ADVANCED MATErIALS FinAnCiAl DireCTOrS STrATeGiC Overview STATemenTS repOrT repOrT
