106 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Antofagasta plc In our opinion: of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable by law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups Accounting Practice.
and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Going concern the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement European Union: onpage 101 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and and we have not identied any material uncertainties that may cast significant the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the agoing concern.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement Our assessment of risks of material misstatement of Changes in Equity, and the related Notes 1 to 39 and the Parent Company The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that Balance Sheet and related information in Note 40.
The financial reporting had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: statements is applicable by law and IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Carrying value of the Antucoya project and other capital projects The Antucoya project was fully impaired in December 2012 and the project For the assessment of the carrying value of Antucoya we have tested the was suspended.
On completion of a project review, the Board authorised impairment model supporting the net present value of the project prepared theresumption of the project in March 2013, with costs being capitalised by management and tested the mechanical accuracy of the model.
We performed sensitivity analysis to assess the key sensitive assumptions The assessment of the carrying value of Antucoya project is considered to and we have tested these assumptions, including corroboration of acid be one of the most judgemental audit risks as small changes between the price, copper price and foreign exchange to external data, capital assumptions made and the actual outcomes could have a material impact expenditure and operating costs to approved budgets and assessed on the net present value of the project.
theappropriateness of the discount rate.
Refer to Note 4 to the financial statements.
We assessed other capital projects for impairment indicators.
For the appropriateness of capitalisation of property, plant and equipment and project costs, we assessed, on a sample basis, the split between amounts capitalised and amounts expensed and whether the amounts Capitalisation of property, plant and equipment and of project costs related to pre-feasibility, feasibility or other activities and were accounted There is a risk of inappropriate categorisation of expenditure between forin accordance with IFRS 6 Exploration and evaluation of mineral operating expenditure and capital expenditure, and that amounts relating resources and IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment.
We have assessed topre-feasibility, feasibility or other activities are capitalised appropriately.
the property, plant and equipment for indicators of impairment.
For the recognition and measurement of restoration and decommissioning The recognition and measurement of restoration and provisions we evaluated the technical competence, experience,  independence and objectivity of the Companys advisor who prepared Restoration and decommissioning provisions are calculated using a theclosure study provisions.
number of different factors, some of which require judgements, for example We assessed the assumptions and judgements in Managements discount rates, exchange rates, ination and estimates for projected costs assessment based on the studies prepared by the Companys advisor, and future plans for example infrastructure, facilities and life of mine.
including future estimated costs, ination rates, discount rates and During the year the closure study and hence provision for Los Pelambres exchange rates, agreed these to external data where applicable and was updated by the Companys advisor.
critically assessed the reasonableness of judgements made.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 107 The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 86.
Matters on which we are required to report Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of by exception our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records.
on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modied with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, express an opinion on these individual matters.
inour opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our Our application of materiality audit: or We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality notvisited by us: or both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $100 million, which is 4.8% We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
ofpre-tax profit and 1.2% of equity.
Directors remuneration: under the Companies Act 2006 we are also We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration Committee all audit differences in excess of $2 million, as well as differences have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that nothing to report arising from these matters.
weidentied when assessing overall presentation of the financial statements.
Corporate Governance Statement An overview of the scope of our audit Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Our Group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work at Los Pelambres, CorporateGovernance Statement relating to the Companys compliance Esperanza, El Tesoro, Michilla, Antucoya, Antofagasta Minerals, Ferrocaril withnine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have Antofagasta a Bolivia and Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. being the Groups nothingto report arising from our review.
These were subject to a full audit at component materiality, which is lower than Group materiality, and represent all of the Our duty to read other information in the Groupsprot before tax, all of the Groups revenue and substantially all annual report oftheGroups net assets.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no toreport to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified or account balances.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, The Group audit team followed a programme of planned visits that has been ourknowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior team member visits or the component auditor in Chile at least three times a year.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any Opinion on other matters prescribed by the inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Companies Act 2006 Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those In our opinion: matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identied properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
108 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Antofagasta plc Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Scope of the audit of the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness for Auditors.
of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the implications for our report.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys James Leigh members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Senior Statutory Auditor have formed.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 17 March 2014
