INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT GROUP ACCOUNTS Independent Auditors Report to the appropriate to the groups circumstances certain elements of the report to members of N Brown Group plc.
and have been consistently applied and shareholders by the Board on We have audited the group financial adequately disclosed: the reasonableness directors remuneration.
statements of N Brown Group plc for of significant accounting estimates the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 which made by the directors: and the overall Other matters comprise the Consolidated Income presentation of the financial statements.
We have reported separately on the Statement, the Consolidated Statement In addition, we read all the financial parent company financial statements of Comprehensive Income, the and non-financial information in the of N Brown Group plc for the 52 weeks Consolidated Balance Sheet, the annual report to identify material ended 2 March 2013.
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, inconsistencies with the audited financial the Consolidated Statement of Changes statements.
If we become aware of Damian Sanders ACA in Equity, the Reconciliation of Operating any apparent material misstatements Senior Statutory Auditor for and Profit to Net Cash Flow from Operating or inconsistencies we consider the on behalf of Deloitte LLP Activities and the related notes 1 to 29. implications for our report.
Chartered Accountants and The financial reporting framework that Statutory Auditor has been applied in their preparation Opinion on financial statements Manchester, UK is applicable law and International In our opinion the group financial Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs statements: 17 May 2013 as adopted by the European Union.
give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 2 March 2013 This report is made solely to the and of its profit for the 52 weeks then companys members, as a body, in ended: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of have been properly prepared in the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work accordance with IFRSs as adopted has been undertaken so that we might by the European Union: and state to the companys members those have been prepared in accordance with matters we are required to state to them the requirements of the Companies Act in an auditors report and for no other 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Opinion on other matter prescribed by responsibility to anyone other than the the Companies Act 2006 company and the companys members as In our opinion the information given in a body, for our audit work, for this report, the Directors Report for the financial year or for the opinions we have formed.
for which the group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group Respective responsibilities of financial statements.
directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Matters on which we are required Responsibilities Statement, the directors to report by exception are responsible for the preparation of the We have nothing to report in respect group financial statements and for being of the following: satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are express an opinion on the group financial required to report to you if, in our opinion: statements in accordance with applicable certain disclosures of directors law and International Standards on remuneration specified by law are not Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards made: or require us to comply with the Auditing we have not received all the information Practices Boards Ethical Standards and explanations we require for our for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Under the Listing Rules we are required financial statements to review: An audit involves obtaining evidence the directors statement, contained about the amounts and disclosures within the Directors Report, in relation in the financial statements sufficient to going concern: to give reasonable assurance that the the part of the Corporate Governance financial statements are free from material Statement relating to the companys misstatement, whether caused by fraud compliance with the nine provisions of or error.
This includes an assessment the UK Corporate Governance Code of: whether the accounting policies are specified for our review: and N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 43
