INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT COMPANy ACCOUNTS Independent Auditors Report to the appropriate to the parent companys the parent company financial members of N Brown Group plc.
circumstances and have been consistently statements and the part of the Directors We have audited the parent company applied and adequately disclosed: the Remuneration Report to be audited are financial statements of N Brown Group reasonableness of significant accounting not in agreement with the accounting plc for the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 estimates made by the directors: and records and returns: or which comprise the Parent Company the overall presentation of the financial certain disclosures of directors Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 statements.
In addition, we read all the remuneration specified by law are not to 10.
The financial reporting framework financial and non-financial information made: or that has been applied in their preparation in the annual report to identify material we have not received all the information is applicable law and United Kingdom inconsistencies with the audited financial and explanations we require for our Accounting Standards United Kingdom statements.
If we become aware of audit.
any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Other matters This report is made solely to the implications for our report.
We have reported separately on the group companys members, as a body, in financial statements of N Brown Group plc accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of Opinion on financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013. the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work In our opinion the parent company has been undertaken so that we might financial statements: Damian Sanders ACA state to the companys members those give a true and fair view of the state of Senior Statutory Auditor for and matters we are required to state to them the companys affairs as at 2 March on behalf of Deloitte LLP in an auditors report and for no other 2013 and of its profit for the 52 weeks Chartered Accountants and purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted then ended: Statutory Auditor by law, we do not accept or assume have been properly prepared in Manchester, UK responsibility to anyone other than the accordance with United Kingdom company and the companys members as Generally Accepted Accounting 17 May 2013 a body, for our audit work, for this report, Practice: and or for the opinions we have formed.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Respective responsibilities of Act 2006. directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Opinion on other matters prescribed Responsibilities Statement, the directors by the Companies Act 2006 are responsible for the preparation of the In our opinion: parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration for being satisfied that they give a true and Report to be audited has been properly fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and prepared in accordance with the express an opinion on the parent company Companies Act 2006: and financial statements in accordance with the information given in the Directors applicable law and International Report for the financial year for which Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the financial statements are prepared Those standards require us to comply is consistent with the parent company with the Auditing Practices Boards financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to Scope of the audit of the report by exception financial statements We have nothing to report in respect of the An audit involves obtaining evidence following matters where the Companies about the amounts and disclosures Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in in the financial statements sufficient our opinion: to give reasonable assurance that the adequate accounting records have not financial statements are free from material been kept by the parent company, or misstatement, whether caused by fraud returns adequate for our audit have not or error.
This includes an assessment been received from branches not visited of: whether the accounting policies are by us: or 72 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
