Financial Statements pp93-167 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of National Express Group Plc Opinion on Financial Statements of In our opinion: National Express Group PLC the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Statement of Cash Flows, the related notes 1 to 38 to the Group Financial Statements and the related notes 1 to 21 to the Company Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 62 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the Financial Statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the misstatement greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of goodwill The key assumptions used in the We assessed managements assumptions used in the impairment model for goodwill and assessment of the carrying value of goodwill intangible assets, described in note 14, specifically including the risk adjusted cash flow and intangible assets.
This is determined projections, discount rates, perpetuity growth rates and sensitivities applied, particularly in with reference to judgemental factors such respect of the Groups interests in Spain and North America.
as future projected cash flows and the Our procedures included reviewing forecast cash flows with reference to historical trading appropriate discount rate.
performance, using our valuation specialists and benchmarking assumptions such as the perpetual growth rate and discount rate to external macro-economic and market data.
Spanish receivables The judgement used to estimate the bad We assessed the adequacy of managements provision against Spanish receivables and debt provision in respect of the receivables their recoverability by testing the controls over the credit management process and due from public authorities and private performing substantive procedures such as confirming cash receipts received post year companies in Spain is challenging given the end for a sample of receivables, reviewing aging and obtaining evidence to support the current economic climate which means the recoverability of aged receivables not provided for historically.
For the public authority receivables can become aged before they receivables we also obtained evidence of the agreed payment plans and confirmed, are recovered, in particular those due from on a sample basis, that these had been adhered to.
com 93 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of National Express Group Plc continued Insurance provisions The measurement of the self-insured claims We used our actuarial specialists to challenge the assumptions inherent in the valuation provision uses actuarial assumptions to produced by the Groups actuary, particularly in respect of North America, such as the determine the quantum of claims which are claim rate probability and to re-perform the actuarial calculation to develop a valuation likely to arise in respect of past events but range.
We compared the level of provision recorded to the range determined by our are not yet known to the Company.
These actuarial specialists and the Groups actuary to conclude that the level of provision claims are inherently difficult to predict and was appropriate.
quantify as no two individual claims are the same, and the settlement outcome is subject to multiple variables.
Exceptional items Management is required to exercise A sample of exceptional items including all material items have been agreed to source judgement in order to appropriately documentation and challenged by the local and Group audit teams as to their nature in determine the items to be presented order to validate that they are material non-recurring items which are appropriate to separately from normalised operating profit present outside of normalised operating profit.
on the basis that they are material and non-recurring in nature and therefore disclosed as exceptional items.
Tax provisions The value of the tax provisions recorded We used our tax specialists to appraise the likely outcome of technical tax treatments in respect of a number of uncertain tax based on their experience working with the revenue authorities, and reviewed positions which have not yet been agreed correspondence with the authorities to challenge the reasonableness of the provisions by the tax authorities.
Pension deficit The measurement of the Groups net We tested the actuarial assumptions used to calculate the net pension liability and our pension liability requires management to actuarial specialists performed a critical assessment of the key assumptions as described make judgements on assumptions including in note 34 with reference to comparable market data.
price inflation, discount rates, pension increases, mortality rates and earnings growth.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on pages 64 to 65.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above.
We do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 9 million, which is approximately 6% of normalised pre-tax profit profit before exceptional items and amortisation.
The exceptional items are volatile and their exclusion, as well as the exclusion of amortisation costs, is consistent with the Groups internal and external reporting to facilitate a better understanding of the underlying trading performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee any audit adjustments in excess of 0.2 million, as well as any adjustments below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
94 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements pp93-167 An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Our Group audit scope focused on the five operating divisions and the Group head office division, all of which were subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 31 December 2013.
These six divisions account for 100% of the Groups total assets, revenue and operating profit.
Audits of these divisions are performed at lower levels of materiality determined by reference to the relative scale of the business division concerned.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process.
The Group audit team includes the component audit teams in our audit team briefing, discusses their risk assessment, and reviews documentation of the findings from their work.
There is a programme of planned site visits so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the six full scope divisions at least once a year.
Opinion on other matters prescribed In our opinion: by the Companies Act 2006 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: and accounting records we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to in the Annual Report you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
com 95 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of National Express Group Plc continued Respective responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement set out on page 92 the and auditor Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements, in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the Financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Nigel Mercer Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Birmingham, UK United Kingdom 27 February 2014 96 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
