38 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 Independent Auditors report to the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority and to the Directors of National Grid Gas plc We have audited the regulatory accounting statements of statements are free from material misstatement, whether National Grid Gas plc the Company for the year ended 31 caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: March 2013, which comprise the Consolidated income whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied income, the Consolidated statement of financial position, the and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall cash flow statement, the Basis of preparation, Recent presentation of the regulatory accounting statements.
In accounting developments, notes 1 to 28 to the Consolidated addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information financial statements, the Supplementary analysis of the in the regulatory accounting statements to identify material consolidated financial statements by regulatory business inconsistencies with the audited Regulatory Accounts.
If we contained in appendix 1 the Unpublished information contained become aware of any apparent material misstatements or in appendix 2 and the Supplementary analysis of the regulatory inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
NTS business by activity contained in appendix 3.
These However, we have not assessed whether the accounting regulatory accounting statements have been prepared in policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company accordance with the basis of preparation and accounting where these are specified by the Regulatory Licence.
Where policies set out on pages 40 to 42. the Regulatory Licence does not give specific guidance on the accounting policies to be followed, our audit includes an Respective responsibilities of the Gas and Electricity assessment of whether the accounting policies adopted in Markets Authority, the Directors and the Auditors respect of the transactions and balances required to be As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors included in the regulatory accounting statements are consistent responsibilities set out on page 37, the Directors are with those used in the preparation of the statutory financial responsible for the preparation of the regulatory accounting statements of National Grid Gas plc.
Furthermore, as the statements and for their fair presentation in accordance with the nature, form and content of regulatory accounting statements basis of preparation and accounting policies.
Our responsibility are determined by the Regulator, we did not evaluate the is to audit and express an opinion on the regulatory accounting overall adequacy of the presentation of the information, which statements in accordance with International Standards on would have been required if we were to express an audit Auditing UK and Ireland, except as stated in the Scope of the opinion under Auditing Standards.
audit of the regulatory accounting statements below, and having regard to the guidance contained in Audit 05 03 Opinion on the regulatory accounting statements Reporting to Regulators of Regulated Entities issued by the In our opinion the regulatory accounting statements: Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
fairly present, in accordance with the Condition of the Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Companys Regulatory Licence and the accounting Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
policies set out on pages 40 to 42, the state of the affairs This report is made, on terms that have been agreed, solely to for the Companys NTS business, LNG storage business, the Company and the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority the fide-minimis activities, other activities, the NTS transmission Regulator in order to meet the requirements of Standard owner activity and the NTS system operator activity at 31 Special Condition A30 the Condition of the Companys March 2013 and their profit and cash flows for the year Regulatory Licence.
Our audit work has been undertaken so then ended: and that we might state to the Company and the Regulator those have been properly prepared in accordance with the matters that we have agreed to state to them in our report, in Condition of the Regulatory Licence and the accounting order: a to assist the Company to meet its obligation under the policies.
Regulatory Licence to procure such a report: and b to facilitate Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Regulatory the carrying out by the Regulator of its regulatory functions: and Licence for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we The Condition requires the regulatory accounting statements to do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the include a Directors Report.
Under the terms of our contract we Company and the Regulator, for our audit work, for this report have assumed responsibility to provide the opinion that would or for the opinions we have formed.
be provided if this was the statutory annual report of the Scope of the audit of the regulatory accounting statements Company, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for disclosures in the regulatory accounting statements sufficient to the financial year for which the regulatory accounting give reasonable assurance that the regulatory accounting National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 39 statements are prepared is consistent with the regulatory purpose.
Our audit report in relation to the statutory financial accounting statements.
statements of the Company our Statutory audit was made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance Matters on which we are required to report by exception with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters Statutory audit work was undertaken so that we might state to where, under the Condition of the Companys Regulatory the Companys members those matters we are required to state Licence, we have agreed under the terms of our contract to to them in a statutory audit report and for no other purpose.
In report to you if, in our opinion: these circumstances, to the fullest extent permitted by law, we adequate accounting records have not been kept by the do not accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been to any other person to whom our Statutory audit report is shown received from branches not visited by us: or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed the regulatory accounting statements are not in by our prior consent in writing.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: and we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matters The nature, form and content of regulatory accounting  LLP statements are determined by the Regulator.
It is not Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors appropriate for us to assess whether the nature of the Birmingham information being reported upon is suitable or appropriate for 29 July 2013 the Regulators purposes.
Accordingly we make no such assessment.
Our opinion on the regulatory accounting statements is separate from our opinion on the statutory financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2013 on which we reported on 25 June 2013, which are prepared for a different a The maintenance and integrity of the National Grid plc web site, on which these regulatory accounting statements are published, is the responsibility of the Companys Directors and the maintenance and integrity of the Regulators web site is the responsibility of the Regulator: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the regulatory accounting statements since they were initially presented on the web sites.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of statutory financial statements and regulatory accounting statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
40 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 Basis of preparation Accounting policies describe our approach to recognising accounting policy W. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
and measuring transactions in the year.
Accounting policies applicable across the financial statements are Attribution of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity shown below.
Accounting policies that are specific to a The condition requires that all the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity of the Company are attributed to the component of the financial statements have been businesses and activities reported in the regulatory accounting incorporated into the note that provides additional statements.
Those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity information regarding that component.
This section also which are not directly attributable to specific businesses or shows areas of judgement and key sources of estimation activities have been apportioned between the businesses and uncertainty in these financial statements as well as new activities according to whether they are related items or EU endorsed accounting standards, amendments and unrelated items.
interpretations, whether these are effective in 2013 or Related items later years.
We explain how significant changes are Related items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets and expected to affect our performance.
liabilities of the Company which are not directly attributable to a specific business or activity, but where there is a reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, assets or liabilities A.
Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting between businesses and activities.
These items comprise statements under IFRS activities in respect of the DNs carried out on a centralised basis, shared services and certain business services.
National Grid Gass principal activities involve the transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering These revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are apportioned services within Great Britain.
The Company is a public limited between businesses and activities in accordance with the company incorporated and domiciled in England with its activities giving rise to the income, costs, assets or liabilities.
registered office at 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH.
Unrelated items These regulatory accounting statements were approved for Unrelated items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets, issue by the Board of Directors on 29 July 2013. liabilities and equity of the Company which are not directly attributable to a specific business or activity, and where there is These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared in no reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, accordance with Standard Special Condition A30 the condition assets, liabilities and equity between the businesses and of the Companys NTS gas transporter licence issued under the activities.
These items mainly comprise corporate activities, Utilities Act 2000 the licence, and in accordance with IFRS as financial items, taxation, dividends, share capital and reserves.
issued by the IASB and as adopted by the EU.
They are prepared on the basis of all IFRS accounting standards and These revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity are interpretations that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March apportioned between businesses and activities using the 2013 and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 following arbitrary bases: applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of Corporate costs charged to the Company by National Grid the EU IAS regulation.
The 2012 comparative financial are apportioned using the same metrics as National Grid information has also been prepared on this basis.
uses to determine the allocated charge to the Company.
The regulatory accounting statements have been prepared on a These metrics take into account relative revenue, historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of derivative operating profit, employees and net assets.
financial instruments and investments classified as available for The non-current amount owed by National Grid Gas sale.
Holdings Limited is apportioned between the regulatory businesses in the ratio of their estimated regulatory These regulatory accounting statements are presented in values.
pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Net debt at 1 April 2005 the first balance sheet date for Company.
this format of regulatory accounting statements, which The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires comprises borrowings and bank overdrafts, less cash, management to make estimates and assumptions that affect cash equivalents and financial investments at that date, the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of was apportioned between regulatory businesses in the contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
No revenue and expenses during the reporting period see amounts were apportioned to the fide-minimis business or National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 41 to other activities.
the Company and its subsidiaries into line with those used by The amounts at subsequent period ends have been the Company in its consolidated financial statements under determined by separately adjusting these initially IFRS.
apportioned amounts by the cash generated or used by each regulatory business, movements in fair value of net debt allocated to each business and other funding C. Foreign currencies movements.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of Movements in fair value and other funding movements the Company or subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates are initially apportioned between the regulatory of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each businesses relative to the net debt at the start of the reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities that are period in which the movements occurred.
A further denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing reallocation of funding between regulatory businesses is exchange rates.
Non monetary assets are not retranslated then applied so that the overall allocation ratio for closing unless they are carried at fair value.
net debt across our regulatory businesses reflects their Gains and losses arising on the retranslation of monetary individual estimated maximum debt potential, taking into assets and liabilities are included in the income statement, account RAV gearing ratios.
except where the adoption of hedge accounting requires Interest is apportioned between the regulatory businesses inclusion in other comprehensive income - note 11. according to the relative level of net debt determined according to the principles set out above.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing Current and deferred taxation are apportioned relative to operations that have a functional currency different from the the results of undertaking notional current and deferred tax Companys functional currency of pounds sterling are translated computations for each business and activity, commencing at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Prior year tax adjustments substantially and expense items are translated at the weighted average relating to transactions which occurred prior to 1 April exchange rates for the period, where these do not differ 2005 are apportioned in the ratio of estimated regulatory materially from rates at the date of the transaction.
Exchange values at that date.
The estimated capital allowances differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to pools at 1 April 2005 were apportioned between the the consolidated translation reserve.
regulatory businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
Current tax liabilities have been apportioned relative to current tax charges and tax paid or D. Areas of judgement and key sources of recovered is determined by balance.
estimation uncertainty Equity dividends primarily funded from profits for the year The preparation of financial statements requires management have been apportioned on the basis of profits for the year.
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported Equity dividends primarily funded from retained earnings amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent have been apportioned on the basis of relative regulatory assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and values.
expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ The apportionment of the total equity of the Company at from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and 1 April 2005, comprising called up share capital, share estimations is contained in the notes to the financial statements, premium account, retained profits and other reserves, was and the key areas are summarised below.
determined as a balancing item at that date.
The amounts at subsequent period ends are determined by separately Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the adjusting these initially apportioned amounts by the equity amounts recognised in the financial statements are: movements derived for each business or activity as a The categorisation of certain items as exceptional items consequence of all other allocations and funding and remeasurements and the definition of adjusted movements.
The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the B.
Basis of consolidation National Grid UK Pension Scheme was a defined The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial contribution scheme note 4. statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
IFRS provides certain options available within accounting Control is achieved where the Company has the power to standards.
Choices we have made, and continue to make, govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to include the following: obtain benefits from its activities.
We use the nature of expense Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the method for our income statement and total our statement accounting policies used in the individual financial statements of of financial position to net assets and total equity.
In the 42 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 income statement, we present subtotals of total operating profit, profit before tax and profit from continuing operations, together with additional subtotals excluding exceptional items, remeasurements and stranded cost recoveries.
Exceptional items, remeasurements and stranded cost recoveries are presented separately on the face of the income statement.
Contributions received prior to 1 July 2009 towards capital expenditure are recorded as deferred income and amortised in line with the depreciation on the associated asset.
We normally opt to apply hedge accounting in most circumstances where this is permitted.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment notes 8 and 9.
Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 11, 16 and 25.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue note 1.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets note 6.
