38 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 Independent Auditors report to the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority and to the Directors of National Grid Gas plc We have audited the regulatory accounting statements of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the National Grid Gas plc the Company for the year ended 31 Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied March 2013, which comprise the Consolidated income and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall income, the Consolidated statement of financial position, the presentation of the regulatory accounting statements.
In Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information cash flow statement, the Basis of preparation, Recent in the regulatory accounting statements to identify material accounting developments, notes 1 to 28 to the Consolidated inconsistencies with the audited Regulatory Accounts.
If we financial statements, the Supplementary analysis of the become aware of any apparent material misstatements or consolidated financial statements by regulatory business inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
contained in appendix 1 and the Unpublished information However, we have not assessed whether the accounting contained in appendix 2.
These regulatory accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company statements have been prepared in accordance with the basis of where these are specified by the Regulatory Licence.
Where preparation and accounting policies set out on pages 40 to 42. the Regulatory Licence does not give specific guidance on the accounting policies to be followed, our audit includes an Respective responsibilities of the Gas and Electricity assessment of whether the accounting policies adopted in Markets Authority, the Directors and the Auditors respect of the transactions and balances required to be As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors included in the regulatory accounting statements are consistent responsibilities set out on page 37, the Directors are with those used in the preparation of the statutory financial responsible for the preparation of the regulatory accounting statements of National Grid Gas plc.
Furthermore, as the statements and for their fair presentation in accordance with the nature, form and content of regulatory accounting statements basis of preparation and accounting policies.
Our responsibility are determined by the Regulator, we did not evaluate the is to audit and express an opinion on the regulatory accounting overall adequacy of the presentation of the information, which statements in accordance with International Standards on would have been required if we were to express an audit Auditing UK and Ireland, except as stated in the Scope of the opinion under Auditing Standards.
audit of the regulatory accounting statements below, and having regard to the guidance contained in Audit 05 03 Opinion on the regulatory accounting statements Reporting to Regulators of Regulated Entities issued by the In our opinion the regulatory accounting statements: Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
fairly present, in accordance with the Condition of the Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Companys Regulatory Licence and the accounting Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
policies set out on pages 40 to 42, the state of the affairs This report is made, on terms that have been agreed, solely to for the Companys DN businesses, metering business, the Company and the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority the meter reading business, fide-minimis activities and other Regulator in order to meet the requirements of Standard activities at 31 March 2013 and their profit and cash flows Special Condition A30 the Condition of the Companys for the year then ended: and Regulatory Licence.
Our audit work has been undertaken so have been properly prepared in accordance with the that we might state to the Company and the Regulator those Condition of the Regulatory Licence and the accounting matters that we have agreed to state to them in our report, in policies.
order: a to assist the Company to meet its obligation under the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Regulatory Regulatory Licence to procure such a report: and b to facilitate Licence the carrying out by the Regulator of its regulatory functions: and The Condition requires the regulatory accounting statements to for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we include a Directors Report.
Under the terms of our contract we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the have assumed responsibility to provide the opinion that would Company and the Regulator, for our audit work, for this report be provided if this was the statutory annual report of the or for the opinions we have formed.
Company, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Scope of the audit of the regulatory accounting statements In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the financial year for which the regulatory accounting disclosures in the regulatory accounting statements sufficient to statements are prepared is consistent with the regulatory give reasonable assurance that the regulatory accounting accounting statements.
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 39 Matters on which we are required to report by exception reported on 25 June 2013, which are prepared for a different We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters purpose.
Our audit report in relation to the statutory financial where, under the Condition of the Companys Regulatory statements of the Company our Statutory audit was made Licence, we have agreed under the terms of our contract to solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance report to you if, in our opinion: with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our Statutory audit work was undertaken so that we might state to adequate accounting records have not been kept by the the Companys members those matters we are required to state Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been to them in a statutory audit report and for no other purpose.
In received from branches not visited by us: these circumstances, to the fullest extent permitted by law, we the regulatory accounting statements are not in do not accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or agreement with the accounting records and returns: and to any other person to whom our Statutory audit report is shown we have not received all the information and explanations or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed we require for our audit.
by our prior consent in writing.
Other matters The nature, form and content of regulatory accounting statements are determined by the Regulator.
It is not appropriate for us to assess whether the nature of the information being reported upon is suitable or appropriate for  LLP the Regulators purposes.
Accordingly we make no such Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors assessment.
Birmingham Our opinion on the regulatory accounting statements is 29 July 2013 separate from our opinion on the statutory financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2013 on which we a The maintenance and integrity of the National Grid plc web site, on which these regulatory accounting statements are published, is the responsibility of the Companys Directors and the maintenance and integrity of the Regulators web site is the responsibility of the Regulator: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the regulatory accounting statements since they were initially presented on the web sites.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of statutory financial statements and regulatory accounting statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
40 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 Basis of preparation Accounting policies describe our approach to recognising accounting policy W. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
and measuring transactions in the year.
Accounting policies applicable across the financial statements are Attribution of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity shown below.
Accounting policies that are specific to a The condition requires that all the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity of the Company are attributed to the component of the financial statements have been businesses and activities reported in the regulatory accounting incorporated into the note that provides additional statements.
Those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity information regarding that component.
This section also which are not directly attributable to specific businesses or shows areas of judgement and key sources of estimation activities have been apportioned between the businesses and uncertainty in these financial statements as well as new activities according to whether they are related items or EU endorsed accounting standards, amendments and unrelated items.
interpretations, whether these are effective in 2013 or Related items later years.
We explain how significant changes are Related items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets and expected to affect our performance.
liabilities of the Company which are not directly attributable to a specific business or activity, but where there is a reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, assets or liabilities A.
Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting between businesses and activities.
These items comprise statements under IFRS activities in respect of the DNs carried out on a centralised basis, shared services and certain business services.
National Grid Gass principal activities involve the transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering These revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are apportioned services within Great Britain.
The Company is a public limited between businesses and activities in accordance with the company incorporated and domiciled in England with its activities giving rise to the income, costs, assets or liabilities.
registered office at 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH.
Unrelated items These regulatory accounting statements were approved for Unrelated items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets, issue by the Board of Directors on 29 July 2013. liabilities and equity of the Company which are not directly attributable to a specific business or activity, and where there is These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared in no reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, accordance with Standard Special Condition A30 the condition assets, liabilities and equity between the businesses and of the Companys DN gas transporter licence issued under the activities.
These items mainly comprise corporate activities, Utilities Act 2000 the licence, and in accordance with IFRS as financial items, taxation, dividends, share capital and reserves.
issued by the IASB and as adopted by the EU.
They are prepared on the basis of all IFRS accounting standards and These revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity are interpretations that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March apportioned between businesses and activities using the 2013 and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 following arbitrary bases: applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of Corporate costs charged to the Company by National Grid the EU IAS regulation.
The 2012 comparative financial are apportioned using the same metrics as National Grid information has also been prepared on this basis.
uses to determine the allocated charge to the Company.
The regulatory accounting statements have been prepared on a These metrics take into account relative revenue, historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of derivative operating profit, employees and net assets.
financial instruments and investments classified as available for The non-current amount owed by National Grid Gas sale.
Holdings Limited is apportioned between the regulatory businesses in the ratio of their estimated regulatory These regulatory accounting statements are presented in values.
pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Net debt at 1 April 2005 the first balance sheet date for Company.
this format of regulatory accounting statements, which The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires comprises borrowings and bank overdrafts, less cash, management to make estimates and assumptions that affect cash equivalents and financial investments at that date, the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of was apportioned between regulatory businesses in the contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
No revenue and expenses during the reporting period see amounts were apportioned to the fide-minimis business or National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 41 to other activities.
Other amounts for the Outer Met Area, The amounts at subsequent period ends have been comprising transportation business operating costs, the overall determined by separately adjusting these initially balance of property, plant and equipment, other assets and apportioned amounts by the cash generated or used by related liabilities are deemed to be 9% of those amounts of each regulatory business, movements in fair value of net London DN.
debt allocated to each business and other funding B.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Movements in fair value and other funding movements statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
are initially apportioned between the regulatory businesses relative to the net debt at the start of the A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
period in which the movements occurred.
A further Control is achieved where the Company has the power to reallocation of funding between regulatory businesses is govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to then applied so that the overall allocation ratio for closing obtain benefits from its activities.
net debt across our regulatory businesses reflects their Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the individual estimated maximum debt potential, taking into accounting policies used in the individual financial statements of account RAV gearing ratios.
the Company and its subsidiaries into line with those used by Interest is apportioned between the regulatory businesses the Company in its consolidated financial statements under according to the relative level of net debt determined IFRS.
according to the principles set out above.
Current and deferred taxation are apportioned relative to the results of undertaking notional current and deferred tax C. Foreign currencies computations for each business and activity, commencing from 1 April 2005.
Prior year tax adjustments substantially Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of relating to transactions which occurred prior to 1 April the Company or subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates 2005 are apportioned in the ratio of estimated regulatory of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each values at that date.
The estimated capital allowances reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities that are pools at 1 April 2005 were apportioned between the denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing regulatory businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory exchange rates.
Non monetary assets are not retranslated values at that date.
Current tax liabilities have been unless they are carried at fair value.
apportioned relative to current tax charges and tax paid or Gains and losses arising on the retranslation of monetary recovered is determined by balance.
assets and liabilities are included in the income statement, Equity dividends primarily funded from profits for the year except where the adoption of hedge accounting requires have been apportioned on the basis of profits for the year.
inclusion in other comprehensive income - note 11.
Equity dividends primarily funded from retained earnings have been apportioned on the basis of relative regulatory On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing values.
operations that have a functional currency different from the The apportionment of the total equity of the Company at Companys functional currency of pounds sterling are translated 1 April 2005, comprising called up share capital, share at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income premium account, retained profits and other reserves, was and expense items are translated at the weighted average determined as a balancing item at that date.
The amounts exchange rates for the period, where these do not differ at subsequent period ends are determined by separately materially from rates at the date of the transaction.
Exchange adjusting these initially apportioned amounts by the equity differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to movements derived for each business or activity as a the consolidated translation reserve.
consequence of all other allocations and funding movements.
D. Areas of judgement and key sources of Outer Met Area A geographical area on the boundary of the East of England DN estimation uncertainty and the London DN, the Outer Met Area forms part of the The preparation of financial statements requires management London DN for managerial, operational and cost accounting to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported purposes.
For regulatory and income accounting purposes, the amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent Outer Met Area is treated as part of the East of England DN.
assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and The relevant operating costs, assets and liabilities are reported expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ in these regulatory accounting statements as part of the East of from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and England DN.
estimations is contained in the notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
The amounts of additions to the gas distribution network for the Outer Met Area are assessed by management based upon 42 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: The categorisation of certain items as exceptional items and remeasurements and the definition of adjusted earnings note 3.
The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme was a defined contribution scheme note 4.
IFRS provides certain options available within accounting standards.
Choices we have made, and continue to make, include the following: Presentation formats.
We use the nature of expense method for our income statement and total our statement of financial position to net assets and total equity.
In the income statement, we present subtotals of total operating profit, profit before tax and profit from continuing operations, together with additional subtotals excluding exceptional items, remeasurements and stranded cost recoveries.
Exceptional items, remeasurements and stranded cost recoveries are presented separately on the face of the income statement.
Contributions received prior to 1 July 2009 towards capital expenditure are recorded as deferred income and amortised in line with the depreciation on the associated asset.
We normally opt to apply hedge accounting in most circumstances where this is permitted.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment notes 8 and 9.
Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 11, 16 and 25.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue note 1.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets note 6.
