com Independent auditors report to the Members of 888 Holdings plc Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: } The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: } The Group and Companys financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and } The financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930 as amended.
We have audited the financial statements the financial statements of 888 Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity, the Consolidated and Company Statements of cash flows and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements and significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are, by their nature, inherently uncertain see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Group financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our Group audit in the current year are noted below.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of audit focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 31 to 33.
We focused on the following areas: } Revenue recognition, which is a presumed fraud risk under International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland.
The main risks are the completeness, existence and presentation in the statement of comprehensive income of net gaming revenue and other revenue.
Details of the accounting policies applied in respect of the various income streams earned by the Group are given in note 2 to the financial statements.
The Group also makes certain judgements around the estimates and treatment of various customer incentives and bonuses that are either deducted from revenue or treated as a cost, the timing of revenue recognition and the accounting treatment of revenue streams derived from contractual arrangements entered into with third parties.
We documented and tested the key IT and manual general and application controls over the completeness and accuracy of the Groups main gaming systems.
This included testing the reconciliation between the main gaming systems and the nominal ledger.
We also undertook analytical and other substantive testing, including IT interrogation work over net gaming revenue, other revenue and the treatment of customer bonuses.
We reviewed the assumptions, estimates and judgements applied by management related to certain customer bonuses and challenged these based on available information.
We reviewed key contracts related to revenue share agreements and other relevant documentation to assess whether the revenue recognised had been correctly treated as gross or net in line with the Groups stated accounting policies and whether any other terms within the contract had any material accounting or disclosure impacts.
We also assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted by the group complies with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and industry standards.
Where revenue was recorded through journal entries we performed testing to establish whether a service had been provided in the financial year to support this recognition. }
The assessment of the additions to, and carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets, to determine whether there was a risk of material misstatement in the carrying value of these assets and whether an impairment should be recognised.
Intangible assets primarily comprise those intangible assets recognised on acquisitions, licenses acquired, and internally generated computer software enhancements, including those designed to meet US licensing criteria.
The Group holds material amounts related to the above assets with carrying values supported through compiling discounted cash flow models with assumptions, estimates and judgements adopted or applied by management.
Key assumptions include discount rates, perpetuity rates, expected operating margins and growth rates, the future period over which projections should apply, and sensitivity analysis.
Stock Code: 888 49 23124.04 25 March 2014 6:24 AM Proof 11 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the Members of 888 Holdings plc We documented and tested the key controls in respect of the capitalisation of intangible assets, tested a sample of projects undertaken in the year against invoices from external suppliers and internal payroll costs and assumptions, and evaluated the assessment by management as to whether the project spend met all the recognition criteria set out in IAS38.
We also considered whether there were any indications of impairment of intangible assets.
We utilised our internal valuations team as part of the audit team and together we challenged managements assumptions used in the discounted cash flow models prepared to assess the impairment of goodwill and other intangibles as described in note 11 of the groups annual report.
This included reviewing all the key assumptions against external evidence where available and by reviewing the cash flow projections against board approved budgets and assessing the reasonableness of cash flow projections beyond that period against available evidence to support these including external information and studies.
We also assessed the past ability of management to forecast with material accuracy.
We also performed other sensitivity analyses on these models particularly where changes in key assumptions could have an impact on the headroom against a break-even position.
We also reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements to conclude that these reasonably highlighted all key assumptions and judgements made. }
Legal and regulatory compliance and provisions.
Given the developing nature of the gaming sector in many countries across the world, there is a risk that potential material legal or regulatory matters are not appropriately disclosed or provided for.
We discussed with the Groups Legal advisors as to whether there were any known instances of material breaches in regulatory and licence compliance that needed to be disclosed or required provisions to be made in the financial statements.
The Group have compliance obligations that range from administration of their licences to assessing the impact of countryspecific and pan-regional rules and regulations on its business.
We reviewed how the Group monitors legal and regulatory developments and their assessment of the potential impact on the business and the appropriate internal and external advice taken in respect of these developments.
The Group assesses the appropriateness and quantum of any provisions and disclosures required under IFRSs as adopted by the EU for certain outstanding legal and regulatory disputes which are an estimate of what the Directors believe to be the fair value based on the Directors best estimate where there is a probable outflow of economic benefits.
Where the Group do not consider the likelihood of a provision being probable the Group will disclose the existence of a contingent liability unless it is remote.
We corroborate this by reviewing any correspondence from regulators related to the Groups licence compliance requirements.
We met with, and reviewed the litigation report provided by the Groups legal counsel and discussed each of the material cases noted in the report to determine the Groups assessment of the likelihood and magnitude of any liability that may arise.
We also reviewed, where required, any available external legal or regulatory advice sought by the group in their assessment.
We challenged the assessments made, where needed, and reviewed the calculation of any provisions made in the light of the external advice provided to the Group.
We also reviewed all disclosures prepared by the Group for these provisions and contingent liabilities. }
Tax including deferred tax given that due to the international nature of the Group there was a risk that material tax exposures may not be reasonably disclosed or provided for in the financial statements.
We discussed with the Group how they manage, control and operate Group companies in the countries in which they are registered.
We also reviewed how the Group considers taxation as part of the overall business planning and how they regularly monitor the rules and practices governing the taxation of ecommerce activity that is evolving in many countries.
The Group seeks external advice on these matters in formulating the estimated amount of tax to be provided in certain jurisdictions.
We reviewed the taxation provisions in respect of each jurisdiction in which the Group is registered or has a significant presence.
We assessed the latest external advice received by management with regard to exposure to taxation in the major territories in which the Group operates, and any correspondence from tax authorities in those territories that may require additional disclosures or provisions.
We also considered any transfer pricing studies carried out on behalf of the Group in the period, and assessed, in respect of earlier studies, whether there had been any change in the basis of operations in the relevant territories.
We challenged the assessments made by management, where needed, and reviewed the disclosures prepared by the Group for the tax provisions and contingent liabilities. }
The re-opening of the US market in certain states.
Certain US states have legalised various forms of online gaming, and the Group has re-entered the market during the year.
As a consequence, the Group has entered into a number of new agreements and joint venture arrangements during the year and management has assessed the accounting treatments that should be applied to these.
We critically assessed the agreements entered into during the year in respect of the groups US operations, both with third parties and joint venture partners and assessed whether the company and consolidation accounting applied was in accordance with applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
We also assessed with the Groups Compliance and Legal advisors as to whether the Group was operating in accordance with its US licenses.
com Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
For planning, we consider materiality to be the magnitude by which misstatements, including omissions, could influence the economic decisions of reasonable users that are taken on the basis of the financial statements.
In order to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that any misstatements exceed materiality, we use a lower materiality level, performance materiality, to determine the extent of testing needed.
Importantly, misstatements below these levels will not necessarily be evaluated as immaterial as we also take account of the nature of identified misstatements, and the particular circumstances of their occurrence, when evaluating their effect on the financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole to be US$4.0 million.
In determining this, we based our assessment on a level of 1% of revenue for the year.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the Groups control environment, our judgment is that performance materiality for the financial statements should be 75% of planning materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences individually in excess of US$0.1 million.
We also agreed to report differences below these thresholds that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our group audit The majority of the Groups individual entities do not require individual statutory audits and as an online gaming Group the accounting for the Group is centrally managed.
For the purposes of the Group audit we consider that there are two reporting components, comprising one company based in Israel, and the other being the rest of the worldwide group.
The audit of the Israeli company is carried out by a component audit firm using a materiality of US$0.9 million as instructed by BDO, and the BDO Group audit team audit the rest of the worldwide group, which includes all the Groups consolidated revenue, and the majority of the Groups costs, using materiality of US$4.0 million.
As part of our work on the group and in accordance with ISA600 Special considerations - Audit of Group financial statements including the work of component auditors we requested that the Israeli component auditor performed their audit under group instructions and reporting, and we met with and reviewed their work as part of the overall audit.
Based on the above scope we were able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis of our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by legal and regulatory requirements In our opinion: } The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2013 for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and } The part of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Section 421 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: } Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or } apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or } is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under Gibraltar legal and regulatory requirements we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: } The Company has not kept proper accounting records: } if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or } if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: } The Directors statement, on page 30, in relation to going concern: and } the part of the corporate governance statement on pages 27 to 30 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Stock Code: 888 51 23124.04 25 March 2014 6:24 AM Proof 11 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the Members of 888 Holdings plc Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 26, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
888 Holdings plc has complied with the requirements of rules 9.8.
8 of the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority and in accordance with Section 421 of the UK Companies Act 2006 in preparing its Annual Report, as if it was incorporated in the United Kingdom.
As auditors, we have agreed that our responsibilities in relation to the Annual Report will be those as set out below.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930 as amended, and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Section 421 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
We also report to you whether in our opinion, the information disclosed in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by the Listing Rules and Gibraltar legislation regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements performed in accordance with ISAs UK and Ireland An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies within the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
The purpose of this report and restrictions on its use by persons other than the members of the Company, as a body Our report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with our engagement letters.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters that we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
BDO LLP Chartered Accountants 55 Baker Street London W1U 7EU United Kingdom 25 March 2014 Christian Summerfield Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of BDO Limited Registered Auditors Regal House PO Box 1200 Gibraltar 25 March 2014 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
BDO Limited, a Gibraltar limited company, is registered in Gibraltar with company number 52200.
