ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2013 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NEXT PLC We have audited the financial statements of NEXT plc for the the parent company financial statements have been year ended 26 January 2013 which comprise the Consolidated properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive the European Union and as applied in accordance with the Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the the financial statements have been prepared in Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements, Accounting accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act Policies and the related Notes 1 to 32 and C1 to C7.
The financial 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 4 of the IAS Regulation.
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance Companies Act 2006 with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion: the part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, has been properly prepared in accordance with the in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Companies Act 2006: and 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required the information given in the Directors Report for the financial to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
year for which the financial statements are prepared is To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or consistent with the financial statements.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Matters on which we are required to report report, or for the opinions we have formed.
by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities you if, in our opinion: Statement on page 26, the directors are responsible for the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to been received from branches not visited by us: or audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in the parent company financial statements and the part of accordance with applicable law and International Standards the directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by for Auditors.
law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations Scope of the audit of the financial we require for our audit.
statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the directors statement, set out on page 32, in relation to from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
going concern: This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant and accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read on directors remuneration.
all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of Nigel Meredith Senior statutory auditor any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor consider the implications for our report.
Birmingham 21 March 2013 Opinion on financial statements Notes: In our opinion: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Next plc website is the responsibility of the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any as at 26 January 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were then ended: initially presented on the website.
the Group financial statements have been properly 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions European Union: 54
