com Stock Code: OCDO Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.5 Disposal of a subsidiary The Group entered into the sale of LMD, the Group company which owned the land and buildings of CFC2, with Morrisons.
The Group disposed of its equity interest in LMD to Morrisons on 25 July 2013 and the net assets of LMD at the date of disposal were as follows: As at 25 July 2013 m Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 80.3 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 1.0 Trade and other payables 34.7 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 45.6 Net assets 1.0 Total Consideration 1.0 Satisfied by: Cash and cash equivalents 1.0 Amounts due on outstanding debt were settled by Morrisons in lieu of trade and other payables due to the Group from LMD at the time of disposal.
The impact of LMD on the Groups results in the current period up to the date of disposal, and the prior period was as follows: 53 weeks ended As at 25 July 2 December 2013 2012 m m Revenue Administrative expenses 0.3 Operating loss 0.3 Finance costs 1.5 Loss before tax 1.8 Immediately following the disposal of LMD, the Group entered into a 25 year lease with LMD for the use of the land and buildings of CFC2.
This lease has been classified as an operating lease in accordance with the provisions of IAS 17 Leases.
LMD subsequently has been renamed Firsdell Limited.
5.6 Post balance sheet events There have been no significant events, outside the ordinary course of business, affecting the Group since 1 December 2013.
22965.04 10 March 2014 10:21 AM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 159 Our Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Independent Auditors Report to the members of Ocado Group plc Report on the Company financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 1 December 2013 and of its cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
What we have audited The Company financial statements, which are prepared by Ocado Group plc, comprise: the Company balance sheet as at 1 December 2013: the Company statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and the notes to the Company financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Parent Company financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Company financial statements.
The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
