Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 115 Our Financials Heading One Group Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report 116 Consolidated income statement 119 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 120 Consolidated balance sheet 121 Consolidated statement of cash flows 122 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 124 Company Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report 159 Company balance sheet 161 Company statement of cash flows 162 Company statement of changes in equity 163 Notes to the Company financial statements 164 Our operating model supports a virtuous cycle of growth, technology led investment and improved returns ONLINE results13.
com Stock Code: OCDO Independent Auditors Report to the members of Ocado Group plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the Group financial statements defined below: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 1 December 2013 and of the Groups loss and cash flows for the period then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements, which are prepared by Ocado Group plc, comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 1 December 2013: the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the period then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the period then ended: and the notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 3.85 million.
This represents approximately 0.5% of revenue.
In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to Group revenue because, in our view, this is the most relevant measure of underlying performance given the nature of the Groups operations and its results.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 190,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Groups main trading activities are grocery retailing and the development of monetisation of intellectual property and technology for the online retailing, logistics and distribution of grocery and consumer goods, which is primarily undertaken in the UK and is predominantly carried out through one trading subsidiary, Ocado Limited.
More recently the Group made the first step in commercialising intellectual property and technology, and during the period announced that it had entered into an arrangement with Wm Morrisons Supermarkets Plc Morrisons to enable Morrisons to launch its online grocery business.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined that we needed to perform an audit of the complete financial information of Ocado Limited together with audit procedures on material balances of other entities in the Group, in particular cash balances and finance costs.
This enabled us to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
22965.04 10 March 2014 10:21 AM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 117 Our Financials Independent Auditors Report to the members of Ocado Group plc In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current period.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 67.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus In relation to the classification of the leases, we determined whether the transactions have been Accounting for arrangements with Morrisons accounted for in accordance with IAS 17 Leases in particular whether the assets were being used During the period Ocado entered into an arrangement with Morrisons for a significant portion of their economic life and whether the present value of the minimum lease to enable them to launch and develop their own online grocery payments amounted to substantially all of the fair value of the asset and therefore whether the business.
This arrangement included the sale to, and lease back, properties should be recognised on the consolidated balance sheet.
from Morrisons of a distribution centre and warehouse equipment, and the provision of certain technology, logistics and distribution In relation to the service fees we have agreed these to the related contracts and assessed whether the services to them.
We focused on this transaction as it was a material income recognised was correctly calculated and recorded in the correct period.
new contract in the period with judgemental accounting, in particular regarding the classification of the property lease arrangements in the financial statements as either operating or finance leases, and the appropriateness of the recognition of fees received for the services provided to Morrison in the Group Income Statement.
Commercial income We independently confirmed, with a sample of suppliers, arrangements made in support of a sample of the commercial income transactions recorded in the period, and tested amounts payable to the Group, Commercial income received by the Group includes advertising receipts including determining whether these were recognised in the correct period.
from suppliers for product placement on the customer website, income We tested a sample of the supplier rebate closing balances by obtaining supplier agreements to from suppliers in relation to the funding of certain promotional activities confirm that the basis on which rebates were recognised was consistent with the agreement, and where by them and volume based supplier rebates.
The amounts recognised appropriate, with the supporting transaction volume information.
during the period are material to the consolidated income statement and amounts accrued at the period end are judgemental.
We obtained managements analysis of the projects capitalised and tested a sample of the development Capitalisation of internal development costs projects that took place during the period where development costs had been capitalised to assess We focused on this area as the amount of employment costs whether each of the criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets had been met and therefore evaluated capitalised in the consolidated balance sheet is material and, involved whether the recognition of the associated asset was permissible.
We also tested the capitalised rate management judgement in relation to whether the development of applied to determine whether it represented the true actual to the business.
systems and operational software met the criteria for capital recognition.
The key elements of our work over this risk involved testing a reconciliation of total sales recorded for Fraud in revenue recognition the period to cash received in the period and a testing of a sample of manual journal entries posted to ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue revenue accounts, obtaining supporting evidence to determine that rationale for the adjustment.
recognition because of the pressure management may feel to achieve the planned results.
We focused on whether the revenue recognised corresponded to a supporting sales transaction that took place in the period.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements Risk of management override of internal controls for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We also tested a sample of journal entries made during the period obtaining supporting evidence to determine the rationale for the adjustment and tested key account reconciliations.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 112, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinions on other prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 56 to 65 in the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
