Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Ophir Energy plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Ophir Energy plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and the related notes 1 to 31.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 66, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whetherthe accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Inaddition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, theknowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements orinconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: anddirecting the efforts of the engagement team: assessment of the carrying value of exploration and evaluation assets.
the ability for Ophir Energy plc to fund future exploration work programmes and to continue as a going concern.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 95 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Ophir Energy plc continued Our application of materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be $35.49 million 2012: $22.09 million, which is below 2% 2012: 2% of total equity.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
We assessed our materiality calculation based on the total equity ofthe Group as we considered that to be the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 50% 2012: 50% of materiality, namely $17.75 million 2012: $11.05 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Audit Committee all audit differences in excess of $1.77 million 2012: $1.1million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and with reference to the financial management structure employed by Ophir Energy plc, we selected all operating locations to be subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 31 December 2013.
These locations were selected to provide a basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The audit of all the operating locations was directed by the senior statutory auditor.
Our response to the risks identified above was as follows: We have challenged managements assessment of the carrying value of exploration and evaluation assets.
In particular we considered OphirEnergy plcs: right to explore in the relevant exploration licence: intention to carry out exploration and evaluation activity in the relevant exploration area: and commercial viability of results of exploration and evaluation activities carried out in the relevant licence area.
We have challenged managements going concern model including the liquidity position at the year end and the projected cash flows.
Weassessed and challenged the accuracy of exploration and evaluation expenditure commitments, the anticipated sources of funding, withparticular reference to the anticipated completion of the disposal of a 20% stake in Tanzania Blocks 1,3 and 4, and projected administration overhead costs disclosed in managements model.
We have challenged the consistency of the assumptions included within thegoing concern model with the statements related to future plans and commitments contained within the Annual Report and Accounts.
96 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing ouraudit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 66, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Ophir Energy plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Paul Wallek Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor London 19 March 2014 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Ophir Energy plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration ofthese matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 97 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 31 December 2013 Year ended Year ended 1 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 Consolidated income statement Notes $000 $000 Continuing operations Revenue Other income 12 12 Exploration expenses 3 a 229,103 4,521 General & administration expenses 3 b 32,098 36,394 Other operating expenses 3 c 46,357 1,676 Operating loss 3 307,546 42,579 Finance income 4 27,079 1,636 Loss from continuing operations before taxation 280,467 40,943 Taxation 8 34,660 228 Loss from continuing operations for the year attributable to: 245,807 40,715 Equity holders of the Company 245,777 40,609 Non-controlling interest 30 106 245,807 40,715 Loss per share pence attributable to equity holders of the parent 2 3 Basic and diluted EPS on loss for the year per share 9 29 pence 6 pence Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Loss from continuing operations for the year 245,807 40,715 Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income to be classified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations net of tax 1,396 28 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 1,396 28 Total comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 247,173 40,637 Non-controlling interest 30 106 247,203 40,743 1 Restated refer to note 4 2 45 cents per share 3 10 cents per share 98 Ophir Energy plc
