Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report To the members of Pace plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Pace plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 54 to 94.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs asat31December 2013 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards asadopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU andasapplied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, asregardsthe group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect onour audit were as follows: Revenue recognition $2,469.2 million Refer to page 31 Audit Committee Report, page 62 accounting policy and pages 68 to 69 financial disclosures.
The risk Revenue consists of hardware sales, software and services, on occasion contracted for within a single arrangement.
Accounting for arrangements involving multiple elements can be complex as in many cases the total contract value is allocated to each identified component on a relative fair value basis and recognised as revenue as the related goods or services are delivered.
The identification of components and allocation and recognition of revenue relating to components is a key area ofjudgement for our audit.
Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, testing controls relating to the identification of components within contracts, the allocation of revenue to components and the recognition of revenue for those components.
We read significant new contracts entered into during the year to understand the contractual terms and to corroborate the components identified by the Group.
We assessed the Groups allocation of revenue, on a relative fair value basis, to identified components of contracts through analysis of revenue and margins.
As part of our assessment of amounts recognised as revenue in the period we recalculated the deferred revenue balance at the balance sheet date.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of revenue and deferred revenue.
Royalty under negotiation provisions $36.9 million Refer to page 31 Audit Committee Report, page 67 accounting policy and page 86 financial disclosures.
The risk The Groups products incorporate third party technology.
Due to the complexity of intellectual property rights arrangements the Group is exposed to the risk of infringement of third party rights.
Potential claims can be submitted many years after a product has been deployed and extensive negotiation is commonplace.
Determining whether to recognise a provision, and the amount of the provision to be recognised, requires the Group to make judgements and estimates that areinherently subjective.
Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, considering the extent to which the Directors estimates takes into account a balanced assessment of the latest available information on the ongoing claims at the balance sheet date, and the accuracy and reliability of the sources of that information.
This included discussing significant claims with the Groups in-house patent expert and legal teams and, for the most significant claims, making enquiries of the Groups external legal adviser.
We read correspondence between the Group and individual claimants.
We read information published by claimants, such as press releases, highlighting their successes against other parties, as part of our assessment of the strength of the claimants case.
We considered the Groups historical experience in assessing the level of provision required by comparing actual outcomes from previous claims to provisions made.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of royalty provisions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 51 1 PIC ar13 Back [MR].
indd 51 20 03 2014 12:21:51 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report To the members of Pace plc only Continued Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Capitalised development costs $57.8 million Refer to page 31 Audit Committee Report, page 63 accounting policy and pages 73 to 75 financial disclosures.
The risk Project development costs are required to be capitalised and subsequently amortised over their useful life if they meet the criteria of relevant accounting standards which require, among other things, an assessment of the future out-turn of the project.
The Group conducts a significant level of development activity.
The Group has to apply judgement in identifying projects meeting the criteria for capitalisation under the requirements of accounting standards and to capture accurate time and costs information for those projects.
There is a risk that capitalisation occurs on projects that do not meet the criteria, thatincorrect amounts are allocated to projects or that projects are not as successful as initially anticipated leading toovercapitalisation and the need for impairment.
Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, testing controls over the authorisation of new development projects and the monitoring of ongoing development projects.
We agreed costs assigned to a sample of larger value projects to time recorded or to invoices, considered the reasonableness of labour rates used, and compared the chosen amortisation periods to the forecast sales information for each project.
As part of our assessment of the benefits expected to be generated for the Group from these projects, which is a key factor in determining whether capitalisation is appropriate, we considered the Groups project cash flow forecasts.
We assessed the appropriateness of key inputs, such as the value and timing of sales by reference to our knowledge of the Groups business, our experience of the industry, and consideration of publicly available information, such as press releases.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of development costs.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at $7,500,000.
This has been determined with reference toabenchmark of Group profit before taxation of which it is 6% which we consider to be one of the principal considerations formembers of the company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of $375,000 in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed by component auditors at the key reporting components in the following locations: West Coast United States, France and Brazil, and by the group audit team in the following locations: United Kingdom and East Coast United States.
These group procedures covered 100% of total group revenue: 96% of group profit before taxation: and 100% of total group assets.
The segment disclosures in Note 3 set out the individual significance of a specific country.
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the group were all performed tomateriality levels set by the group audit team.
These materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from$3.5million to $5 million.
Detailed instructions were sent to all the component auditors.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should becovered by the component auditors which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out theinformation required to be reported back to the group audit team.
The group audit team visited the following locations: UnitedKingdom and East Coast United States.
Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors at the locations that werenotphysically visited by the Group team.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements areprepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Framework of Corporate Governance set out on pages 26 to 28 with respect to internal control andrisk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent withthe financial statements.
52 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 1 PIC ar13 Back [MR].
indd 52 20 03 2014 12:21:51 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not inagreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 47, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Framework of Corporate Governance on pages 26 to 28 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 49, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of anaudit of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report asif set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken andthe basis of our opinions.
Mike Barradell Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 The Embankment Neville Street Leeds LS1 4DW 4 March 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 53 1 PIC ar13 Back [MR].
