116 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc Report on the financial statements the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other Our opinion explanatory information.
In our opinion: The financial reporting framework that has been The financial statements, defined below, give a true applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and fair view of the state of the Groups and companys and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups regards the company, as applied in accordance with the profit and of the Groups and companys cash flows provisions of the Companies Act 2006. for the year then ended: Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting The consolidated financial statements have been framework have been presented elsewhere in the properly prepared in accordance with International annual report and accounts the annual report, Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
the European Union: These are cross-referenced from the financial The company financial statements have been properly statements and are identified as audited.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the What an audit of financial statements involves European Union and as applied in accordance with the We conducted our audit in accordance with provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland The financial statements have been prepared in ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining accordance with the requirements of the Companies evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial financial statements sufficient to give reasonable statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
assurance that the financial statements are free from This opinion is to be read in the context of what we material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or say in the remainder of this report.
This includes an assessment of: Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the the IASB Groups and companys circumstances and have been As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by made by the directors: and the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
information in the annual report to identify material What we have audited inconsistencies with the audited financial statements The consolidated financial statements and company and to identify any information that is apparently financial statements the financial statements, which materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent are prepared by Pearson plc, comprise: with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any the consolidated and company balance sheet as at apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 31 December 2013: we consider the implications for our report.
the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity and cash flow statements for the year then ended: and OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 5 Financial statements 117 Overview of our audit approach Across these segments, we identified two reporting Materiality units in the US and UK that required an audit of their We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped complete financial information due to size alone, plus a us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our further nine reporting units in the US, UK, Brazil, China audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of and South Africa that required specified procedures misstatements, both individually and on the financial on certain transactions and balances.
We also obtained statements as a whole.
an audit opinion on the financial information of the associate Penguin Random House.
Our audit work Using our professional judgement, we determined at these reporting units and at head office gave us materiality for the consolidated financial statements as coverage of approximately 80% of the Groups profit a whole to be 32m.
This is based on 5% of profit before tax.
This, together with procedures at the before tax, after adjusting for non-recurring items such consolidated Group level and at the Groups shared as gain on disposal of subsidiaries, this being an service centres, provided the evidence we needed for appropriate measure of the groups underlying our opinion on the consolidated financial statements performance.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would Areas of particular audit focus report to them misstatements identified during our In preparing the financial statements, the directors audit above 2m as well as misstatements below that made a number of subjective judgements, for example amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for in respect of significant accounting estimates that qualitative reasons.
involved making assumptions and considering future Overview of the scope of our audit events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily The Group is organised into four business segments, focused our work in these areas by assessing the being North American Education, International directors judgements against available evidence, Education, Professional and FT Group, plus the forming our own judgements, and evaluating the investment in associate Penguin Random House.
Each disclosures in the financial statements.
segment comprises a number of reporting units.
The In our audit, we tested and examined information, consolidated financial statements comprise these using sampling and other auditing techniques, to reporting units plus the Groups centralised functions.
the extent we considered necessary to provide In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
we determined the type of work that needed to be We obtained audit evidence through testing the performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures engagement team, or component auditors within PwC or a combination of both.
UK and from other PwC network firms operating We considered the following areas to be those that under our instruction.
Where the work was performed required particular focus in the current year.
This is not by component auditors, we determined the level of a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by involvement we needed to have in the audit work at our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the those reporting units to be able to conclude whether audit committee.
Their report on those matters that sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained they considered to be significant issues in relation to as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial the financial statements is set out on pages 68 and 69. statements as a whole.
118 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of fraud in revenue recognition Auditing standards require us to consider the risk of We evaluated the relevant systems and tested the fraud in revenue recognition.
internal controls over the accurate and complete recording of revenue.
We focused on material products and services where revenue recognition practices are particularly complex We assessed the accounting treatment of new and subject to estimates, being: contracts at inception, including examination of evidence supporting key assumptions and estimates.
multiple element arrangements, such as the provision We assessed the profitability and percentage of of supplementary print or digital materials or completion estimates made for material long-term training with textbooks, where revenue is recognised revenue contracts and assessed multiple-element for each element as if it were an individual arrangements and the related fair value allocations.
contractual arrangement requiring the estimation of We performed substantive testing of revenue its fair value: and recorded during the year and evaluated any changes certain long-term contracts in the Education in estimates to determine if they were indicators of segments, where revenue is recognised using management bias.
estimated percentage of completion based on costs.
We also tested manual journals posted to revenue to determine their appropriateness and compliance with Group revenue recognition policies.
Risk of management override of internal controls Auditing standards require us to consider the risk of We assessed the overall control environment of management override of internal controls.
the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistleblow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested manual journal entries, including consolidation entries, and incorporated elements of unpredictability in the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures.
Penguin Random House transaction On 1 July 2013, management announced the completion We evaluated the directors assessment of this of the Penguin Random House combination which transaction as a disposal of a business segment and resulted in a number of complex accounting and an acquisition.
business model changes as follows: We evaluated the valuation of the business and associated gain on disposal.
We also assessed the disposal accounting, including the gain on the sale: resulting associate accounting including the fair value valuation of the new business and intangible acquisition adjustments such as recognition of intangible assets: and assets and alignment of accounting policies and their associate accounting, including alignment of application.
For the valuation exercises we assessed the accounting policies and presentation of results directors cash flow forecasts, comparing them to board in the consolidated financial statements.
approved plans and challenged the underlying We focused on this area because it was a complex assumptions.
transaction which required the directors to exercise a significant level of judgement.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 5 Financial statements 119 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Provision for uncertain tax liabilities The Group is subject to several tax regimes due to the We obtained an understanding of the Groups tax geographical diversity of its businesses.
strategy to identify tax risks relating to business and legislative developments.
We recalculated the directors The directors are required to exercise significant valuation of tax provisions and determined whether the judgement in determining the appropriate amount to calculations were in line with the Groups tax policies provide in respect of potential tax exposures and and had been applied consistently.
The most significant of these relate to US tax.
We evaluated key underlying assumptions, particularly in the US and in territories with new cross border We focused on this area because of the inherent tax structures, having due regard to ongoing judgements required in estimating the amount of any correspondence between the Group and local provision required.
Changes in assumptions can tax authorities.
materially impact the level of provisions recorded in the financial statements.
Returns provisions We focused on this area because there are material We tested the calculation of the provisions, assessing judgemental provisions for anticipated book returns judgements for reasonableness against historical within the Education segments particularly as the experience and the impact on returns of the Group transitions from print to digital.
ongoing business transition from print to digital.
We also tested controls in the shipment and returns provisioning processes.
Valuation of pre-publication assets and inventories We focused on this area because there are material preWe evaluated the recoverability of the pre-publication publication assets and inventories within the Education assets and inventories held, by assessing actual segments.
Judgement is required to evaluate the valuation experience against historical estimates and in light of these assets which may be more complex during the of business transition from print to digital.
transition from print to digital.
We also tested controls in the pre-publication assets and inventories processes.
Goodwill impairment reviews We focused on this area because the Group carries We tested managements impairment analysis by significant goodwill and acquired intangible asset balances.
examining their identification and aggregation of CGUs and by evaluating the underlying assumptions There is judgement in the identification and aggregation through assessment of forecasts, market conditions of cash generating units CGUs and in the assumptions and sensitivity analysis and through assessing the used in the annual goodwill impairment review.
historical accuracy of forecasts and budgets.
We assessed managements calculation of discount rates and perpetuity growth rates and we tested the integrity of the valuation model.
120 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc continued Going concern Other matters on which we are required to report by Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the exception directors statement, set out on page 72, in relation to Adequacy of accounting records and information and going concern.
We have nothing to report having explanations received performed our review.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required As noted in the directors statement, the directors to report to you if, in our opinion: have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the we have not received all the information and consolidated and company financial statements using explanations we require for our audit: or the going concern basis of accounting.
The going adequate accounting records have not been kept by concern basis presumes that the Group and company the company, or returns adequate for our audit have have adequate resources to remain in operation, and not been received from branches not visited by us: or that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were the company financial statements and the part of the signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this However, because not all future events or conditions responsibility.
can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the companys ability to Directors remuneration continue as a going concern.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures Opinions on other matters prescribed by the of directors remuneration specified by law have not Companies Act 2006 been made.
We have no exceptions to report arising In our opinion: from this responsibility.
the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 5 Financial statements 121 Corporate Governance Statement Other information in the annual report Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of report is: the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We materially inconsistent with the information in the have nothing to report having performed our review.
audited financial statements: or On page 74 of the annual report, as required by the apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and consider the annual report taken as a whole to be company acquired in the course of performing our fair, balanced and understandable and provides the audit: or information necessary for members to assess the is otherwise misleading.
Groups performance, business model and strategy.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this On pages 68 and 69, as required by C. 3.8 of the responsibility.
Code, the audit committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
122 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 74, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated and company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated and company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Stuart Newman Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 10 March 2014 Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the Pearson plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
