Independent auditors report to the members ofPerform Group plc Opinion on financial statements of Perform Group plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated statement of cash flows and the related notes 1 to 32 and the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 7.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation as applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 57 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition The completeness of revenue arising from video and display We assessed managements process and controls over the completeness and advertising as a result of the complexity of the Groups validity of advertising revenue.
We substantively tested a sample of revenue customercontracts.
items by reference to individual sales insertion orders, independent data on the adverts viewed and the ultimate invoicing.
Acquisition accounting The Group made a number of acquisitions in the period.
There The two principal acquisitions in the year were Perform Sporting News and a number of judgements associated with this including the Opta.
We tested the design and implementation of the controls over the identification and fair value determination of intangible assets identification of intangible assets.
We assessed whether the intangible assets arising and the useful economic lives assigned to such assets.
met the requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations for separate recognition This process involves assumptions and Management judgement and used our internal valuation specialists to challenge the inputs to the valuation particularly with respect to the estimate of future cash flows, models used to determine the value of the intangible assets.
We also challenged associated discount rates and useful economic lives.
the discount rates, estimated cash flows, growth rates and useful lives used by comparing to historical data, where appropriate, or industry benchmarks on similar assets and our understanding of the future prospects of the businesses.
84 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Content costs The Group significantly increased its investment in content We evaluated the method for recognition of content costs, including the rights during the period.
Management has revised the appropriateness of the change in accounting estimate and associated approach to the recognition of costs in the Income Statement disclosures, taking into account the expected profiles of future usage to be based on the pattern in which the future economic associated with these rights costs based upon contractual data available and benefits of the content rights are expected to be consumed historic trends.
This has been accounted for as a change in accounting estimate.
This revised approach requires Management to estimate expected usage of content rights by reference to the estimated future economic benefits arising.
Impairment of goodwill The Groups assessment of impairment of goodwill requires We challenged Managements assumptions used in the impairment model for Management judgement and is based on estimates of goodwill.
We specifically assessed the cash flow projections, discount rate and future cash flows, long-term growth rate, and associated long-term growth rate used against our understanding of the future prospects discountrate.
of the business and the prevailing Group cost of capital at the year end.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 61.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 1.15 million, which is below 5% of adjusted profit before tax, and is below 2% of equity.
Adjusted profit before tax is defined as Group profit before tax excluding exceptional items including exceptional finance charges, share based payments, amortisation of acquisition intangibles and the accretion of acquisition-related deferred consideration.
These adjustments are made consistently by the Group in their earnings communications with the market and, in the opinion of the Directors, provide a more comparable measure with similar organisations and are consistent with the profit measures most relevant to analysts and investors.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 23,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit scope focussed primarily on the audit work at seven locations: four of these were subject to a full audit Switzerland, USA and the London offices of Perform and Opta.
The remaining three were subject to an audit of specified account balances where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
These locations represent the principal business locations and account for 97% of the Groups total assets, 98% of the Groups revenue and 89% of the Groups profit before tax.
All locations making a profit greater than materiality were included in the scope.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the full scope locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
The Senior Statutory Auditor visited the principal overseas operating location.
In years when a location is not visited, a senior member of the Group team attends the close meeting by conference call.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 Independent auditors report to the members ofPerform Group plc continued we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Weconfirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focussed second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Lee-Amies FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 3 March 2014 86 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
