Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 62 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Persimmon Plc Carrying amounts of impairment provision in respect Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit of inventories credit balance of 102.8m including withininventories 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodied Refer to page 40 Audit Committee Report, page 73 accounting policy and page 86 financial disclosure We have audited the financial statements of Persimmon Plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 64 to 103.
In our opinion: t The risk: The risk relating to the carrying amount of impairment provisions against inventory, arises from the recoverable value of the t the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the related asset to which the cost of the asset is compared being based Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 on assumptions of forecast build modelling and costs and forecast and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: selling prices.
Forecast selling prices have inherent uncertainty due t the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in tochanges in market conditions.
Forecast build costs can vary with accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as market conditions and may also be incorrectly estimated due to adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : changes in build modelling.
These inherent uncertainties require judgements which if materially incorrect would result in the t the Parent Company financial statements have been properly misstatement of the inventory provision.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act t Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, among 2006: and others, testing the Groups controls over the process around valuation of land and work in progress including accuracy and completeness t the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the ofdata capture and recording and future selling prices and costs.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group We evaluated the process of comparison of anticipated margin to financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
thebreak even target, the reasonableness of which we assessed by comparison with actual break even margins previously achieved.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We tested the integrity of the impairment model, and re-performed the calculation of the impairment provision.
For all sales in the year In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the for which part of the provision was utilised, we calculated the profit risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit or loss after utilisation, and considered the appropriateness of its were as follows: disclosure in the income statement.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation Carrying amount of available for sale financial assets involved in arriving at the provision and the classification of the net shared equity receivables 215.4m provision reversed as an exceptional item.
Refer to page 40 Audit Committee Report, page 73 accounting policy 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the and pages 85 to 86 financial disclosure scope of our audit t The risk: The risk relating to the carrying amount of the Groups The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set available for sale financial assets, which are held at fair value, arises at 27m.
This has been determined based on a benchmark of total from the receivables created as part of sales transactions being on assets of which it represents 0.9%, which we consider to be one of the extended terms.
This requires the use of a valuation model incorporating assumptions of house price inflation, borrower default principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the and discount rate, over the period of recovery.
There are inherent financial performance of the Group.
uncertainties within these assumptions which require judgements We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and tobe made which if materially incorrect would result in the uncorrected audit misstatements we identified during our audit with misstatement of the carrying value of the available for sale financial assets.
a value in excess of 1.4m in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on t Our response: In this, area our audit procedures included, among qualitative grounds.
others, testing the Groups controls over the recording of available for sale financial assets at operating sites and testing the principles and The Group operates through 24 regional offices and a head office, all integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow model used to value the of which operate on one, integrated accounting system and under a assets.
We evaluated the key assumptions of forecast house price common set of controls, supplemented by central control processes.
inflation and market participant discount rate, through comparison The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a to externally derived data.
The assumptions relating to borrower single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed default were evaluated against actual default levels.
We re-performed using the materiality levels set out above and covered 100% of total the Groups sensitivity analysis on the valuation and challenged the Group revenue, Group profit before taxation, and total Group assets.
range of assumptions used by the Group for the sensitivity analysis incomparison to our research findings.
We compared the carrying amount of available for sale assets relating to redemptions during the financial year with the actual amount recovered in respect of these assets.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures over the key assumptions and degree of estimation.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 63 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Scope of report and responsibilities Companies Act 2006 is unmodied As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement In our opinion: set out on page 61, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a t the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at t the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors www.
This report is made solely to the Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide on which we are required to report by exception an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, amaterial misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Iain Moffatt Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor In particular, we are required to report to you if: Chartered Accountants t we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge 1 The Embankment, Neville Street, Leeds, LS1 4DW weacquired during our audit and the Directors Statement that they 24 February 2014 consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as awhole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or t the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: t adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or t the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or t certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or t we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: t the Directors Statement, set out on page 42, in relation to going concern: and t the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 38 to 40 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
