Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Petrofac Limited We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on financial statements Petrofac Limited for the year ended 31 December 2013 which In our opinion the parent company financial statements: comprise the Company Income Statement, the Company Statement Give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at of Comprehensive Income, the Company Statement of Financial 31 December 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: Position, the Company Statement of Cash Flows, the Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 19.
The Have been properly prepared in accordance with International financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Financial Reporting Standards: and preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Standards.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in Opinion on other matter accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be and our renewed engagement letter dated 19 February 2014.
Our audited, which you have instructed us to audit, has been properly audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation as described companys members those matters we are required to state to them therein.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Matters on which we are required to report by exception permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where anyone other than the company and the companys members as a the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report to you if, in body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have our opinion: formed.
proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement visited by us: or set out on page 114, the directors are responsible for the the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting preparation of the parent company financial statements and for records and returns: or being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility we have not received all the information and explanations we is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial require for our audit.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us Other matter to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Auditors.
Petrofac Limited for the year ended 31 December 2013.
As described in the audit report on the group financial statements, the In addition the company has also instructed us to report to you our risk of impairment of goodwill and other assets also relates to the opinion on whether the section of the Directors Remuneration parent company.
Report that is described as audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation described therein.
John Flaherty for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Scope of the audit of the financial statements London An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 25 February 2014 disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Notes: assurance that the financial statements are free from material 1 misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an The maintenance and integrity of the Petrofac Limited web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall 2 Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
financial and non-financial information in the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
