Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Petrofac Limited Opinion on financial statements Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and In our opinion the group financial statements: disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at assurance that the financial statements are free from material 31 December 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an have been properly prepared in accordance with International assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Financial Reporting Standards: and the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Companies Jersey Law 1991. estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonWhat we have audited financial information in the Annual Report to identify material We have audited the group financial statements of Petrofac Limited inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the any information that is materially incorrect based on, or materially Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material Position, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes our report.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Reporting Standards.
We identified the following risks of material misstatement that have had the greatest impact on our overall audit strategy: the allocation This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 engagement team: and our renewed engagement letter dated 19 February 2014.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Revenue recognition in respect of long term contracting: companys members those matters we are required to state to them Taxation, as a result of the complexity of the groups operations in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent and the large number of jurisdictions in which the group operates: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Initial recognition and determination of subsequent accounting for anyone other than the company and the companys members as a contracts in the Integrated Energy Services segment of the body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have business: and formed.
Consideration of potential impairment of goodwill and other assets.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement Our application of materiality set out on page 114, the directors are responsible for the Materiality is a key part of planning and executing our audit strategy.
preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements that they give a true and fair view.
are free from material misstatement, we define materiality as the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group aggregate, in light of the surrounding circumstances, could financial statements in accordance with applicable law and reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those users of the financial statements.
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
As we developed our audit strategy, we determine materiality at the overall level and at the individual account level.
Performance In addition the Company has also instructed us to: materiality is the application of materiality at the individual account or report as to whether the information given in the Corporate balance level.
Governance Statement with respect to internal control and risk Planning the audit solely to detect individually material management systems in relation to financial reporting processes misstatements overlooks the fact that the aggregate of individually and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial immaterial misstatements may cause the financial statements to be statements: materially misstated, and leaves no margin for possible undetected review the directors statement in relation to going concern as set misstatements.
Performance materiality is set to reduce to an out on page 114, which for a premium listed UK incorporated appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of company is specified for review by the Listing Rules of the uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for Financial Conduct Authority: and the financial statements as a whole.
whether the information given in the strategic report is consistent with the group financial statements.
We determined planning materiality for the group to be $38 million 2012: $38 million, which is approximately 5% 2012: 5% of pre-tax profit for the year adjusted for exceptional items if applicable.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the overall control environment, our judgement is that performance materiality was 50% 2012: 50% of our planning materiality, namely $19 million 2012: $19 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning materiality level.
116 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 We agreed with the Audit Committee that would report to them Accounting for taxation assets, liabilities, income and expenses all uncorrected audit differences in excess of $1.9 million 2012: We utilised tax specialists in our London team in the planning stages $1.9 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality.
We report to determine which jurisdictions should be in scope, as well as in the all corrected audit differences that in our view warrant reporting on audit of tax balances.
We also involved local tax specialists in the qualitative grounds or where the corrected difference exceeds relevant jurisdictions where we deemed it necessary.
Reclassification differences are reported and challenged the tax exposures estimated by management and to the Audit Committee where the difference exceeds 2% of the the risk analysis associated with these exposures along with claims applicable primary financial statement line items.
or assessments made by tax authorities to date.
We also audited the calculation and disclosure of current and deferred tax to ensure An overview of the scope of our audit compliance with local tax rules and the groups accounting policies 1 Our group audit scope focussed on four operating locations, all including the impact of complex items such as share based of which were subject to a full scope audit for the year ended payments and the review of managements assessment of the 31 December 2013 and were selected based on our assessment likelihood of the realisation of deferred tax balances.
of the risk of material misstatement due to both size and risk.
An additional five components were selected for a specific scope audit Initial recognition and subsequent accounting for IES contracts where the extent of audit work was based on our assessment of We challenged the judgements and accounting treatments made by the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of those management arising from the most complex contractual locations to the Groups business operations.
arrangements at inception for these contracts.
We also considered the underlying economic models, supporting calculations and Together with the group functions which were also subject to a full assumptions using valuations specialists where necessary to ensure audit for the year ended 31 December 2013, these locations that these are materially accurate and in line with the Groups represent the principal business units of the group and account for accounting policies as well as the requirements of IFRS.
We 82% of the groups revenue, 83% of the groups operating profit, involved internal financial reporting specialists to ensure that all and 85% of the groups total assets.
Audits of these locations are relevant considerations have been identified and appropriately performed at a performance materiality level calculated with reflected in accounting treatments.
reference to a proportion of the group materiality appropriate to the relative scale and risk associated with each location.
They are also Impairment of goodwill and other assets selected to provide a basis for undertaking audit work to address We focused on this area as it involves complex and subjective the risks of material misstatement identified above.
An additional judgements by the Directors about the future results of the two components were selected for a limited scope review, which business.
In evaluating whether any impairment was necessary to primarily involves inquiries of management and analytical procedures the remaining carrying value of goodwill and other assets, our audit based on our assessment of the risk of these locations.
work involved obtaining evidence regarding its recoverable amount and how it compared to the amount at which the goodwill or other The group audit team follows a programme of planned site visits assets are currently recorded.
We challenged managements that is designed to ensure that a senior member of the team visits assessment of impairment, including the key inputs of the forecast each of the four full audit scope locations at least once a year.
In cash flows, the discount rate used, the growth rate assumed and 2013, the group audit team including the senior engagement partner the historical accuracy of budgets and we used a valuation visited the main operating location in the United Arab Emirates specialist to assist us with our consideration of the discount rate.
during planning, interim review and year end audit procedures.
We also evaluated managements sensitivity analysis: and we A group team audit partner also visited the remaining full scope confirmed that the financial statement disclosures met the locations in Malaysia and Mexico, reviewed key working papers and requirements of accounting standards.
participated in the component teams planning, including the discussion of fraud and error.
The group audit team attended the Opinion on other matters audit closing meetings for each full audit scope component.
In our opinion: The way in which we responded to the risks identified above the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set was as follows: out on pages 66 to 91 in the Annual Report and Accounts with Long term contracts-revenue and margin recognition respect to internal control and risk management systems in We audited the systems in place to ensure the appropriate relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital determination of the percentage completion of each significant structures is consistent with the financial statements.
contract, ensuring appropriate approval from customers was the information given in the strategic report is consistent with the evidenced.
We challenged management in respect of the group financial statements.
reasonableness of judgements made regarding the cost to complete Matters on which we are required to report by exception estimate, the timing of recognition of variation orders, the adequacy Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, of contingency provisions to mitigate contract specific risks and their in our opinion, information in the annual report is: assessments around the potential for liquidated damages for projects behind schedule.
We consider these to be the key materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial judgemental areas driving the recognition of revenue and margins in statements: or respect of long term contracts.
We also ensured that managements apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent policies and processes for making these estimates continue to be with, or knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of applied consistently.
performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
117 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Petrofac Limited contd Under Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
The company has voluntarily complied with, and has instructed us to review, the directors statement, set out on page 114, in relation to going concern.
This statement is specified for review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority for premium listed UK incorporated companies.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Petrofac Limited for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
John Flaherty for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP London 25 February 2014 Notes: 1 Full scope includes head office and Group consolidation procedures 2 The maintenance and integrity of the Petrofac Limited web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
3 Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
