Financial statements indEPEndEnt auditoRS REPoRt to thE mEmbERS oFPlaytECh PlC Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of Playtech plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Cashflows and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and our audit approach to these risks In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements and significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are, by their nature, inherently uncertain see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
We primarily focussed our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, including the risk of management override and bias, forming our own judgements and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our Group audit in the current year are noted below.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of audit focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 54 to 56: We focussed on the area of revenue recognition.
The main risks are the completeness, existence, accuracy and presentation in the Statement of Comprehensive Income of amounts receivable relating to the share of net gambling revenue of customers and other revenue.
Details of the accounting policies applied in respect of the various income streams earned by the Group are given in Note 2 to the financial statements.
The Group also makes certain judgements around the timing of revenue recognition and the treatment of contractual arrangements for revenue streams entered into.
We documented and tested the key IT and manual general and application controls over the completeness and accuracy of the Groups main gambling systems.
This included conducting test bets and testing the reconciliation between the main gaming systems and the nominal ledger.
We also undertook analytical and other substantive testing, including IT interrogation work over net gaming revenue and other revenue.
We reviewed key contracts related to revenue share agreements and other relevant documentation to assess whether the revenue recognised had been correctly treated and was in line with the Groups stated accounting policies and whether any other terms within the contract had any material accounting or disclosure impacts.
We considered material contracts entered into by the group to confirm revenue was recognised correctly.
We also assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted by the group comply with IFRS as adopted by the EU and industry standards.
Where revenue was recorded through journal entries we performed testing to establish whether a service had been provided in the financial year to support this recognition.
We focussed on the assessment of the additions to, and carrying value of goodwill, other intangible assets and the investments in subsidiaries held by the parent company to determine whether there was a risk of material misstatement in the carrying value of these assets and whether an impairment should be recognised.
Additions to intangible assets primarily comprise those intangible assets recognised on acquisitions and internally generated computer software enhancements.
The Group holds material amounts related to these assets which they support that the carrying value is not impaired through compiling discounted cashflow models with assumptions, estimates and judgements that have been reviewed by management.
Key assumptions include discount rates, perpetuity rates, operating margins and growth rates and the number of years that projections will be extended for and sensitivity analysis.
We documented and tested the key controls in respect of the capitalisation of intangible assets, tested a sample of projects undertaken in the year against invoices from external suppliers and internal payroll costs and assumptions, and evaluated the assessment by management as to whether the project spend met all the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38.
We considered whether there were any indications of impairment of intangible assets.
The audit team utilised our internal valuations team as part of the audit team and together we challenged managements assumptions used in the discounted cash flow models prepared to assess the impairment of goodwill, other intangibles and the carrying value of investments in subsidiaries as described in Note 2 of the Groups financial statements.
This included reviewing all the key assumptions against external evidence where available and by reviewing the cash flow projections against board approved budgets and assessing the reasonableness of cash flow projections Playtech plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 beyond that period against available evidence to support these including external information and studies.
We assessed the past ability of management to forecast with material accuracy.
We performed other sensitivity analyses on these models particularly where changes in key assumptions could have an impact on the headroom against a break-even position.
We also reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements to conclude that these reasonably highlighted all key assumptions and judgements made and areas where there was less headroom in existence.
We focussed on legal and regulatory compliance and provisions.
Given the developing nature of the gambling sector in many countries across the world, there is a risk that potential material legal or regulatory matters are not disclosed or provided for.
We discussed with the Groups Compliance and Legal department as to whether there were any known instances of material breaches in regulatory and licence compliance that needed to be disclosed or required provisions to be made in the financial statements.
The Group have compliance obligations that range from administration of their licences to assessing the impact of country-specific and pan-regional rules and regulations on its business.
We reviewed how the Group monitors legal and regulatory developments and their assessment of the potential impact on the business and the appropriate internal and external advice taken in respect of these developments.
We also discussed matters with the Groups dedicated regulatory and compliance teams that report directly to the Board supported by the legal and management teams.
They also undertake in-house compliance assessments and have external audits as required by their gaming licences that we reviewed.
The Group makes certain provisions and disclosures required under IFRS for certain outstanding legal and regulatory disputes based on the Directors best estimate where there is a probable outflow of economic benefits.
Where the Group do not consider the likelihood of a provision being probable the Group will disclose the existence of a contingent liability unless it is remote.
We corroborated this by reviewing any correspondence from regulators and reviewed the conclusions from any external audits related to the Groups licence compliance requirements.
We met with, and reviewed the litigation report provided by the Groups legal counsel and discussed each of the material cases noted in the report to determine the Group s assessment of the likelihood and magnitude of any liability that may arise.
We also reviewed, where required, any available external legal or regulatory advice sought by the group in their assessment.
We challenged the assessments made, where needed, and reviewed the calculation of any provisions made in the light of the external advice provided to the Group.
We also reviewed all disclosures prepared by the Group for these provisions and contingent liabilities.
We focussed on tax including deferred tax given that due to the international nature of the group there was a risk that material tax exposures may not be reasonably disclosed or provided for in the financial statements.
We discussed with the Group how they manage, control and operate Group companies in the countries in which they are registered.
We also reviewed how the Group considers tax as part of the overall business planning and how they regularly monitor the rules and practices governing the taxation of e-commerce activity that is evolving in many countries.
The Group seek external and internal advice on these matters in formulating the estimated amount of tax to be provided in certain jurisdictions.
We discussed with the Groups finance team the provisions calculated by them in respect of each jurisdiction in which the Group is registered or has a significant presence.
We critically reviewed the latest externally prepared advice received by management with regard to exposure to taxation in the major territories in which the Group operates, and any correspondence from tax authorities in those territories that may require additional disclosures or provisions.
We also considered the latest transfer pricing studies carried out on behalf of the Group in the period, and assessed, in respect of earlier studies, whether there had been any change in the basis of operations in the relevant territories.
We challenged the assessments made by management, where needed, and reviewed the disclosures prepared by the Group for the tax provisions and contingent liabilities.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
For planning, we consider materiality to be the magnitude by which misstatements, including omissions, could influence the economic decisions of reasonable users that are taken on the basis of the financial statements.
In order to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that any misstatements exceed materiality, we use a lower materiality level, performance materiality, to determine the extent of testing needed.
Importantly, misstatements below these levels will not necessarily be evaluated as immaterial as we also take account the nature of identified misstatements, and the particular circumstances of their occurrence, when evaluating their effect on the financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole to be 8.85 million.
In determining this, we based our assessment on a level of 5% of Adjusted EBITDA for the year whilst having regard to those items that are charged or credited to arrive at profit for the year outside of Adjusted EBITDA.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the Groups control environment, our judgment is that performance materiality for the financial statements should be 75% of planning materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences individually in excess of 160,000.
We also agree to report differences below these thresholds that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our group audit At the planning stage of the audit the Group auditors review the consolidated results broken down by subsidiary location.
As part of our requirements under ISA 600 Special Considerations - Audit of Group Financial Statements including the work of component auditors we request that component auditors for components that are deemed significant components defined as those that are greater than 15% of the Groups revenue, total assets or Adjusted EBITDA perform audits to component materiality set by the group audit team Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements indEPEndEnt auditoRS REPoRt to thE mEmbERS oFPlaytECh PlC CONTINUED under group instructions and reporting.
Other locations that do not meet these criteria are asked to perform reviews under ISRE 2410 or reviews with selected audit procedures on certain balances such as cash or payroll based on their relative size, risks in the business and our knowledge of those entities.
The materiality for group reporting for components performing audits or reviews to the group was 4 million and 2 million respectively.
Based on the above scope we were able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis of our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement on pages 44 to 53 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 74, the Directors are responsible for preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements and in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements performed in accordance with ISAs Uk and Ireland An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies within the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
the purpose of this report and restrictions on its use by persons other than the members of the company, as a body Our report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 80C of the Isle of Man Companies Act2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters that we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
kieran Storan For and on behalf of BDO llP London United Kingdom 20 February 2014 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
Playtech plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
