Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc What an Audit of Financial Statements reporting units, comprising the Groups Report on the Group Financial Involves operating businesses in these regions and Statements We conducted our audit in accordance with centralised functions.
Our Opinion International Standards on Auditing UK and In establishing the overall approach to the In our opinion the Group financial statements Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit Group audit, we determined the type of work defined below: involves obtaining evidence about the amounts that needed to be performed at reporting units and disclosures in the financial statements Give a true and fair view of the state of the by us, as the Group engagement team, or sufficient to give reasonable assurance that Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and component auditors within PwC UK and from the financial statements are free from material of the Groups profit and cash flows for the other PwC network firms operating under our misstatement, whether caused by fraud or year then ended: instruction.
Where work was performed by error.
This includes an assessment of: component auditors, we determined the level Have been properly prepared in accordance Whether the accounting policies are of involvement we needed to have in the audit with International Financial Reporting appropriate to the Groups circumstances work at those reporting units to be able to Standards IFRSs as adopted by the and have been consistently applied and conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit European Union: and adequately disclosed: evidence had been obtained as a basis for our Have been prepared in accordance with the opinion on the Group financial statements as The reasonableness of significant accounting requirements of the Companies Act 2006 a whole.
estimates made by the Directors: and and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Accordingly, we identified 58 reporting units The overall presentation of the financial This opinion is to be read in the context of out of the Groups 699 reporting units which, statements.
what we say in the remainder of this report.
in our view, required an audit of their complete In addition, we read all the financial and financial information, either due to their size Separate Opinion in Relation to IFRSs as non-financial information in the Annual Report or their risk characteristics.
These 58 reporting Issued by the IASB to identify material inconsistencies with the units accounted for 74% of the Groups profit As explained in note 1 to the financial audited Group financial statements and to before tax and 75% of the Groups revenue.
statements, the Group, in addition to applying identify any information that is apparently Our audit work at these reporting units, IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has materially incorrect based on, or materially together with additional procedures performed also applied IFRSs as issued by the International inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by at the Group level, gave us the evidence we Accounting Standards Board IASB.
us in the course of performing the audit.
If needed for our opinions on the Group financial In our opinion the Group financial statements we become aware of any apparent material statements as a whole.
comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider Areas of Particular Audit Focus the implications for our report.
What we have Audited In preparing the financial statements, The Group financial statements, which are Overview of our Audit Approach the Directors made a number of subjective prepared by Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Materiality judgements, for example in respect of comprise: We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These significant accounting estimates that involved helped us to determine the nature, timing and making assumptions and that consider future The Group balance sheet as at 31 December extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate events that are inherently uncertain.
We 2013: the effect of misstatements both individually primarily focused our work in these areas The Group income statement and statement and on the financial statements as a whole.
by assessing the Directors judgements of comprehensive income for the year against available evidence, forming our own Based on our professional judgement, we then ended: independent judgements, and evaluating the determined materiality for the Group financial disclosures in the financial statements.
The Group statement of changes in equity statements as a whole to be 128m.
This is and cash flow statement for the year then calculated as being 5% of profit before tax In our audit, we tested and examined ended: and adjusted for exceptional items.
information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered The notes to the Group financial We agreed with the Audit Committee that necessary to provide a reasonable basis for statements, which include a summary of we would report to them misstatements us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit significant accounting policies and other identified during our audit above 6m as evidence through testing the effectiveness explanatory information.
well as misstatements below that amount of controls, substantive procedures or a that, in our view, warranted reporting for The financial reporting framework that has combination of both.
been applied in their preparation comprises We considered the following areas to be applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the Overview of the Scope of our Audit those that required particular focus in the European Union.
The Group is primarily structured along current year.
This is not a complete list of all three geographic regions being LAPAC Latin Certain disclosures required by the financial risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
America, North Asia, South East Asia, Australia reporting framework have been presented We discussed these areas of focus with the and New Zealand, RUMEA Russia and the elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters CIS, Middle East, North Africa, Turkey and Statements the Annual Report, rather than in that they considered to be significant issues in sub-Saharan Africa, ENA Europe and North the notes to the financial statements.
These are relation to the financial statements is set out America with separate segments for the Food cross-referenced from the financial statements on page 31. and RB Pharmaceuticals businesses.
The Group and are identified as audited.
financial statements are a consolidation of RB Annual Report 2013 47 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Trade Spend Accruals We agreed trade spend terms to underlying customer contracts and assessed The business enters into a number of sales agreements with whether estimates of trade spend were consistent with the terms set out in customers that have a wide range of terms promotions, rebates the contracts.
We evaluated movements in trade spend estimates based on & discounts.
Estimates of the trade obligations in connection the accuracy of historic estimates, as well as against expectations derived from with these agreements trade spend accruals are material to the underlying contracts, to ascertain whether current year accruals were in line balance sheet.
We also compared historical accuracy of prior year trade spend accruals to the actual liabilities incurred.
In addition we tested a We focused on this area because of the high level of judgement number of controls relating to trade spend accruals, covering items such as required in accounting for trade spend due to varying contractual the segregation of duties over the creation and approval of the accruals and terms and the fact that elements of the calculation are subjective both the review and resolution of variations between expected and actual and may not be finalised until after the year end.
Accordingly the trade spend deductions awarded.
focus of our work includes the completeness and valuation of the estimates.
Provision for Uncertain Tax Exposures The Group has material tax exposures relating to potential or existing We obtained a detailed understanding of the Groups tax strategy and challenges by tax authorities in a number of territories around the assessed key technical tax issues and risks related to business and legislative world.
These arise for a number of reasons including transactions developments.
We obtained explanations and evidence from management undertaken where the applicable tax treatment is uncertain or regarding the tax treatments applied to material transactions and an judgemental or due to transfer pricing arrangements arising from understanding of the transfer pricing policy within the Group.
the key assumptions, particularly in relation to significant transactions undertaken in the period and where there have been significant We focused on this area because of the level of judgement required developments in communications with local tax authorities, as well as to be applied by management in quantifying appropriate provisions undertaking a critical assessment of evidence that supports any provisions.
Changes in assumptions could materially impact the amounts recorded in the financial statements.
Acquisition of BMS Collaboration Agreement We evaluated the Directors assessment of this transaction as a business We focused on this area because it was a complex transaction which combination and discussed the rationale for the accounting principles applied required the Directors to exercise a significant level of judgement, around the timing of recognition of certain assets and liabilities.
We obtained particularly around the valuation of the assets and liabilities acquired managements valuations of the acquired assets and liabilities and evaluated and the timing of their recognition.
these by comparing managements cash flow forecasts to Board approved plans.
In addition we challenged the assumptions supporting the acquisition Refer also to note 26 to the financial statements.
synergies and tax benefits by comparing these to supporting third party market data, as well as comparing forecasts to historic performance.
We performed sensitivity analysis over key drivers within the cash flow forecasts, including revenue, operating profit and estimated synergies, as well as the key assumptions around discount and growth rates.
We then considered the likelihood of such movement in these key assumptions arising in assessing the appropriateness of the overall valuations.
Risk of Fraud in Revenue Recognition We focused our procedures on the occurrence of transactions and whether ISAs UK & Ireland require us to consider the risk of fraud in they were recorded in the period in which the Group became entitled to revenue recognition.
We performed a combination of testing internal controls around revenue recognition and substantive testing of revenue recorded As a consumer goods group a large number of sales agreements are during the year using data analysis and sampling techniques.
We tested sales entered into with customers with a wide range of terms covering transactions and credit notes raised around the year end and also reviewed promotions, rebates and discounts which increases complexity.
In significant customer contracts, in order to assess whether the conditions for addition, current economic conditions in certain territories can place revenue had been met.
We also tested manual journals posted to record increased pressure on management to meet performance targets.
revenue to determine whether those postings were consistent with the Accordingly there is a risk that revenue could be misstated.
Risk of Management Override of Internal Controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function and specifically asked for their views on fraud and instances of fraud noted during the year.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested manual journal entries and incorporated an element of unpredictability in the timing of our work and samples in our testing plans.
48 RB Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Going Concern Corporate Governance Statement Responsibilities for the Financial Under the Listing Rules we are required to Under the Listing Rules we are required to Statements and the Audit review the directors statement, set out on review the part of the Corporate Governance Our Responsibilities and those of page 33, in relation to going concern.
We have Statement relating to the Companys the Directors nothing to report having performed our review.
compliance with nine provisions of the UK As explained more fully in the Statement of Corporate Governance Code the Code.
As noted in the directors statement the Directors Responsibilities set out on page 33, We have nothing to report having performed Directors have concluded that it is appropriate the Directors are responsible for the preparation our review.
to prepare the Groups financial statements of the Group financial statements and for being using the going concern basis of accounting.
On page 33 of the Annual Report, as required satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The going concern basis presumes that the by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state Our responsibility is to audit and express an Group has adequate resources to remain in that they consider the Annual Report taken as a opinion on the Group financial statements operation, and that the Directors intend it to whole to be fair, balanced and understandable in accordance with applicable law and ISAs do so, for at least one year from the date the and provides the information necessary for UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us financial statements were signed.
As part of members to assess the Groups performance, to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards our audit we have concluded that the Directors business model and strategy.
On page 31, Ethical Standards for Auditors.
use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues This report, including the opinions, has been However, because not all future events or that it considered in relation to the financial prepared for and only for the Companys conditions can be predicted, these statements statements, and how they were addressed.
members as a body in accordance with are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act continue as a going concern.
to report to you if, in our opinion: 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume The statement given by the Directors is Opinion on Matters Prescribed by responsibility for any other purpose or to any materially inconsistent with our knowledge the Companies Act 2006 other person to whom this report is shown or of the Group acquired in the course of into whose hands it may come save where In our opinion the information given in the performing our audit: or expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors The section of the Annual Report describing for the financial year for which the Group the work of the Audit Committee does not financial statements are prepared is consistent Other Matter appropriately address matters communicated with the Group financial statements.
by us to the Audit Committee.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements of We have no exceptions to report arising from Other Matters on which we are Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for the year ended this responsibility.
Required to Report by Exception 31 December 2013 and on the information Other Information in the Annual Report in the Directors Remuneration Report that is Adequacy of Information and Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required described as having been audited.
Explanations Received to report to you if, in our opinion, information Under the Companies Act 2006 we are in the Annual Report is: required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and Materially inconsistent with the information explanations we require for our audit.
We in the audited Group financial statements: or Mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor have no exceptions to report arising from Apparently materially incorrect based on, or for and on behalf of this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with, our knowledge  LLP Directors Remuneration of the Group acquired in the course of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are performing our audit: or London required to report to you if, in our opinion, 7 March 2014 Is otherwise misleading.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law have not been made, and We have no exceptions to report arising from under the Listing Rules we are required to this responsibility.
review certain elements of the report to Shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
