FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 174 REED ELSEVIER PLC Independent auditors report to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC Opinion on our audit of the consolidated and parent company In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC the Company in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is In our opinion: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of ofthe Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent consolidated profit and their cash flows for the year then ended: material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor European Union: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the parent company financial statements have been properly Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true Accepted Accounting Practice and in accordance with the and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those the financial statements have been prepared in accordance standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the consolidated financial statements which Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated companys members those matters we are required to state to statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated cash flow them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest statement, the consolidated statement of financial position, the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility consolidated statements of changes in equity, a summary of the to anyone other than the company and the companys members as consolidated accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 16. a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the have formed.
preparation of the consolidated financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as We are required to communicate with the Audit Committee adopted by the European Union.
The parent company financial regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of statements comprise the parent company balance sheet, the the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant parent company reconciliation of shareholders funds, a summary deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
of the parent company significant accounting policies and the We are also required to provide the Audit Committee with a related note.
The financial reporting framework that has been statement that we have complied with relevant ethical applied in the preparation of the parent company financial requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be Standards.
thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable related safeguards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement, application of materiality and overview of the scope of our audit Going Concern Given the nature of the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors NVlegal structure, our assessment of risks of material statement contained on page 76 that the Company is a going misstatement, materiality and audit scoping for the Combined concern.
We confirm that given the nature of the Reed Elsevier Businesses equally applies to the audit of the parent company PLC and Reed Elsevier NV legal structure, our assessment of the and the consolidated financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC.
combined businesses ability to continue as a going concern See page 138 for further details.
equally applies to the parent company and the consolidated financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements However, because not all future events or conditions can be An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give ability to continue as a going concern.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
indd 174 07 03 2014 11:36 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 175 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired In our opinion: during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider Act 2006: and should have been disclosed.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Douglas King Senior statutory auditor Matters on which we are required to report by exception For and on behalf of Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Deloitte LLP Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor in our opinion: London United Kingdom we have not received all the information and explanations we 26 February 2014 require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
