FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 138 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent auditors report to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC and shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV Opinion on our audit of the combined financial statements of We have audited the combined financial statements of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses which comprise the combined income In our opinion the combined financial statements: statement, the combined statement of comprehensive income, the combined statement of cash flows, the combined statement of give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Reed Elsevier financial position, the combined statement of changes in equity, PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc, Elsevier Reed asummary of significant accounting policies and the related Finance BV and their respective subsidiaries, associates and notes1to 31.
The financial reporting framework that has been joint ventures together the combined businesses as at applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted 31December 2013 and of their profit and their cash flows for the by the European Union.
year then ended: and Our assessment of risks of material misstatement have been properly prepared in accordance with International The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the those that, in our professional judgement, had the greatest effect European Union.
on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and acquired We challenged managements assumptions used in the intangible assets: impairment model for goodwill and acquired intangible assets, The combined businesses had 4,576m of goodwill and 2,404m described in note 14 to the combined financial statements, of acquired intangible assets as at 31 December 2013.
The including specifically the cash flow projections, discount rate, quantum of these balances together with the inherent judgements perpetuity growth rates and sensitivities used.
required to be made when performing an impairment review have resulted in us considering this a significant risk.
The carrying value of internally developed intangible assets in We challenged managements assessment as to whether accordance with IAS38 Intangible Assets: development projects in-progress were still expected to deliver The closing net book value of all capitalised development projects sufficient positive economic benefits to the combined businesses is 720m.
The quantum of these balances together with the upon their completion, and for completed development projects, inherent judgements required to be made when performing an considered whether the useful economic lives selected remained impairment review have resulted in us considering this a appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition We performed tests of controls over revenue recognition, and the accounting for multiple element arrangements: including the timing of revenue recognition and the accounting for Reed Elseviers businesses continue to evolve and new business revenue recognition in multiple element arrangements, as well as models can result in new revenue arrangements.
This can result substantive testing, analytical procedures and assessing whether in circumstances which require careful consideration to the revenue recognition policies adopted complied with IFRS.
determine how revenue should be recognised.
The valuation of amounts recorded for uncertain tax positions: We considered the appropriateness of managements Reed Elsevier operates in a significant number of jurisdictions assumptions and estimates in relation to uncertain tax positions, around the world, all with differing tax regimes with complex challenging those assumptions and considering advice received cross-border arrangements, and is therefore open to challenge by management from external parties to support their position.
The above matters are selected from the matters communicated We agreed with the Audit Committees that we would report to the to the Audit Committees, but are not intended to represent all Committees all audit differences in excess of 1.7m, as well as matters that were discussed with them.
The Audit Committees differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted consideration of these risks is set out on page 95. reporting on qualitative grounds.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in An overview of the scope of our audit the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and Our audit of the combined financial statements was scoped by not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
obtaining an understanding of the combined businesses and its Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with environment, including the entity-wide controls, and assessing respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express the risks of material misstatement at the combined businesses an opinion on these individual matters.
Based on that risk assessment, we designed and performed audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtained audit Our application of materiality evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for We have considered a number of benchmarks in order to guide our our opinion.
In making those risk assessments, we considered determination of our materiality.
We determined materiality for internal control relevant to the entity's preparation and fair the combined businesses to be 85m, which is around 7% of presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit pre-tax profit and below 5% of equity.
Our audit work at the procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
As part of operating locations was executed at levels of materiality lower an audit in accordance with the applicable standards, we exercised than the materiality for the combined businesses and was capped professional judgment and maintained professional scepticism at 30m or $50m.
throughout the planning and performance of the audit.
29275 SAS p138-139 INDEP AUDIT REP. indd 138 07 03 2014 11:27 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 139 Based on that assessment, our audit scope for the combined Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor businesses focused primarily on the audits of seventeen operating As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities locations, which represent the principal business units within the statement, the Boards are responsible for the preparation of the combined businesses five reportable segments.
These locations, combined financial statements in accordance with International together with the combined businesses head office functions, Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union which were also subject to a full scope audit, account for 95% of and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view and for the combined businesses total assets, 92% of the combined such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the businesses total liabilities, 80% of the combined businesses preparation of combined financial statements that are free from revenue, 84% of the combined businesses adjusted operating material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
profit and 87% of the combined businesses profit before tax.
They Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking combined financial statements in accordance with International audit work to address the risks of material misstatement Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland as issued by the United identified above.
Kingdom Auditing Practices Board and Dutch Law, including the The combined businesses audit team continued to follow a Dutch Standards on Auditing.
The standards require us to comply programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the with our respective professions ethical requirements, including Audit Partners of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors and frequently visit the key locations.
The Audit Partners also attend the International Ethical Standards Board of Accountants Code of audit close meetings with management of each of the combined Ethics.
We are independent of the group within the meaning of the businesses five operating segments, alongside the local auditors applicable law and regulation and have fulfilled our other of the business units.
responsibilities under those ethical requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate We also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical to provide a basis for our opinion.
procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial We are required to communicate with the Audit Committees information of the remaining components not subject to audit.
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant We obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
financial information of the entities and business activities to We are also required to provide the Audit Committees with a express an opinion on the combined financial statements.
We are statement that we have complied with relevant ethical responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with combined businesses audit.
We remain responsible for our them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be auditopinion.
thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable related safeguards.
Going concern The financial statements of the combined businesses have been Scope of the audit of the combined financial statements prepared using the going concern basis of accounting.
The use of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and this basis of accounting is appropriate unless management either disclosures in the combined financial statements sufficient to give intends to liquidate the combined businesses or to cease reasonable assurance that the combined financial statements are operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or We have reviewed the Report of the Boards on page 76 where the error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Board has not identified a material uncertainty that may cast policies are appropriate to the combined businesses significant doubt on the combined businesses ability to continue circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately as a going concern.
We confirm that: disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the we have not identified material uncertainties related to events combined financial statements.
In addition, we read all the or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the combined financial and non-financial information in the annual report to businesses ability to continue as a going concern which we identify material inconsistencies with the audited combined believe would need to be disclosed in accordance with IFRSs as financial statements and to identify any information that is adopted by the European Union: and apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially we have concluded that the Boards use of the going concern inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent statements is appropriate.
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the combined Douglas King Senior statutory auditor A Sandler businesses ability to continue as a going concern.
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Deloitte Accountants B. V. Other matters Chartered Accountants Amsterdam The separate audit reports on the consolidated financial and Statutory Auditor The Netherlands statements of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, which London, United Kingdom have been audited under locally adopted auditing standards and 26 February 2014 26 February 2014 which include the other opinions required by local laws and regulations, appear on pages 174 to 175 and 197 to 198.
