Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 197 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV Opinion on our audit of the consolidated and parent company We are required to communicate with the Audit Committee financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV the Company regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant In our opinion: deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of We are also required to provide the Audit Committee with a the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its profit statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements and its cash flows for the year then ended: regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to the consolidated financial statements have been properly bear on our independence, and where applicable related safeguards.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and in Scope of the audit of the financial statements accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code: and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the parent company financial statements have been properly disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally assurance that the financial statements are free from material Accepted Accounting Practice and in accordance with Part 9 of misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error, and perform audit Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We have audited the consolidated financial statements which Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Dutch Law statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
of cash flows, the consolidated statement of financial position and Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be notes 1 to 17, including a summary of the significant accounting expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied basis of these consolidated and parent company financial in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements is statements.
applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The parent company financial statements comprise the parent As part of an audit in accordance with Dutch law, we exercise company profit and loss account, the parent company balance professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism sheet, the parent company reconciliation of shareholders funds, throughout the planning and performance of the audit.
We also asummary of the parent company significant accounting policies identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the and the related notes 1 to 3.
The financial reporting framework consolidated and parent company financial statements, whether that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures financial statements is applicable Dutch law and United Kingdom responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is Accounting Standards.
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud Our assessment of risks of material misstatement, application is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve of materiality and overview of the scope of our audit collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or Given the nature of the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV the override of internal control.
legal structure, our assessed risks of material misstatement, In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal application of materiality and overview of the scope of our audit for control relevant to the entity's preparation and fair presentation of the combined business equally applies to the audit of the the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that consolidated and parent company financial statements of Reed are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit also includes an Elsevier NV.
See page 138 for further details.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the businesses circumstances and have been consistently applied Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities accounting estimates made by the Board: and the overall statement, the Board is responsible for the preparation of the presentation structure and content of the financial statements, financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the including the disclosures and whether the financial statements European Union and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that view and for such internal control as they determine is necessary achieves fair presentation.
We obtain sufficient appropriate audit to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free evidence regarding the financial information of the Company and from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
business activities to express an opinion on the financial Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the statements.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and financial statements in accordance with Dutch Law, including the performance of the audit.
We remain solely responsible for our Dutch Standards on Auditing.
The standards require us to comply audit opinion.
In addition, we read all the financial and with our respective Dutch professions ethical requirements, non-financial information in the annual report to identify material including the International Ethical Standards Board of inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to Accountants Code of Ethics.
We are independent of the Company identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect within the meaning of the relevant Dutch ethical requirements and based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired have fulfilled our other responsibilities under those ethical by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
consider the implications for our report.
indd 197 07 03 2014 13:07 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 198 Going concern The financial statements of the Company have been prepared using the going concern basis of accounting.
The use of this basis of accounting is appropriate unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
We have reviewed the Report of the Board on page 76 where the Board has not identified a material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We confirm that given the nature of the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV legal structure, our assessment of the combined businesses ability to continue as a going concern equally applies to the parent company and the consolidated financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other legal and regulatory requirements Pursuant to the legal requirement under Section 2:393 sub 5 at e and f of the Dutch Civil Code, we have no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination whether the Report of the Board, to the extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the information as required under Section 2:392 sub 1 at b-h has been annexed.
Further we report that the Report of the Board, to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the financial statements as required by Section 2:391 sub 4 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Deloitte Accountants B. V. A Sandler Amsterdam The Netherlands 26 February 2014 29275 SAS p197-198.
