Strategic report Governance Financial statements Auditors report To the Shareholders of Regus plc socit anonyme 26, Boulevard Royal L-2449 Luxembourg REPORT OF THE RVISEUR DENTREPRISES AGR Opinion Report on the consolidated financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements, as set out We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial on pages 58 to 103, give a true and fair view of the consolidated statements of Regus plc socit anonyme, which comprise the financial position of Regus plc socit anonyme as of consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2013 and the 31 December 2013, and of its consolidated financial performance consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, and a accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory as adopted by the European Union.
information, as set out on pages 58 to 103.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Board of Directors responsibility for the consolidated The consolidated Directors report, including the corporate financial statements governance statement, which is the responsibility of the Board of The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and Directors, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in and includes the information required by the law with respect to accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as the Corporate Governance Statement.
adopted by the European Union, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
KPMG Luxembourg S. r. l. Cabinet fide rvision agr Responsibility of the Rviseur dEntreprises agr Thierry Ravasio Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our Luxembourg, 4 March 2014 audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing as adopted for Luxembourg by the Commission fide Surveillance du Secteur Financier.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the judgement of the Rviseur dEntreprises agr, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the Rviseur dEntreprises agr considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
