Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Rentokil Initial plc 73 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Rentokil Initial plc growth rates, terminal values, and forecast cash flows.
This is therefore Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit a key area we focused on during our audit.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Rentokil Initial plc for Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 76 to 127 and instructing local auditors to evaluate the procedures undertaken to 130 to 136.
In our opinion: identify indicators of impairment in the year, testing the underlying methodology and the mathematical accuracy of the models used the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the to estimate the recoverable amount of the cash generating units: groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December assessment and challenge of the key input assumptions including 2013 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: growth rates, inflation rates, discount rates through comparison to the group financial statements have been properly prepared in information derived internally: assessing the sensitivity of the key input accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as assumptions through reperformance: and considering the adequacy adopted by the European Union: of the disclosures in the financial statements.
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly Provisions for tax contingencies and recognition of UK deferred prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and tax assets Refer to page 44 Audit committee report and Note A14 accounting the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the policy and financial disclosures requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The risk: Provisions for tax contingencies require the directors to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax risks.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement judgemental areas that our audit concentrated on due to the group In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the operating in a number of tax jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit pricing and other international tax legislation and the time taken for tax were as follows: matters to be agreed with the tax authorities.
Reorganisation costs and one-off items Reorganisation costs: The recognition of deferred tax assets also requires the directors to 51.7m: one-off items operating: 12.0m: one-off items make judgements as to whether the deferred tax assets are likely financing: 1.5m : to be recoverable in the future, particularly with regard to the deferred Refer to page 44 Audit committee report and Notes A1 and C4 tax assets on tax losses held within the UK.
accounting policy and financial disclosures Our response: With regard to the tax contingencies we have The risk: In addition to the disclosure of IFRS reported earnings, performed the following with the assistance of our tax specialists: reorganisation costs and one-off items have been separately identified assessed the groups tax positions, its correspondence with the and presented, based on the groups definitions of these items as set relevant tax authorities and its external tax advisors and analysed out in Note A1.
A key judgement is the classification of these items.
and challenged the assumptions used to determine tax provisions There is a risk that items included within reorganisation costs and based on our knowledge and experiences of the application of the one-off items are not in accordance with the groups accounting international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
policies and therefore the adjusted result is misstated.
We have also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others: in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
assessing the consistency of the items classified as reorganisation In respect of deferred tax assets our audit procedures included, costs and one-off items with the groups policy and disclosures in among others, analysing the judgements in relation to the recognition the financial statements and: testing the groups procedures over the of the deferred tax assets, to assess the likelihood of use of deferred approval and monitoring of reorganisation costs and one-off items by tax assets and the appropriateness of managements assumptions observing the performance of the operation of the procedures and regarding the forecast period.
We have tested the underlying testing a sample of such items to assess whether their classification methodology and the mathematical accuracy of the taxable profit is in line with the groups policy.
The principal considerations in forecast models used to estimate the future use of deferred tax assets performing our assessment included whether the nature of the items through assessment and challenge of the key input assumptions were consistent with the groups policy and whether the items were primarily UK taxable profit forecasts and the term covered by the part of an approved reorganisation programme.
model to information derived internally by the group: and considered Impairment assessment and testing of cash generating units the adequacy of the disclosures in the financial statements.
that include goodwill and acquired intangible assets including customer lists and relationships and brands : carrying values Discontinued operations and disposal accounting: of 291.3m and 87.7m respectively Refer to Note D3 financial disclosures Refer to page 44 Audit committee report and Note B4 accounting The risk: The group has not classified the Initial Facilities business as policy and financial disclosures held for sale and consequently has not classified it as a discontinued operation at the end of 2013.
The classification as held for sale is a The risk: The group has significant carrying amounts of both goodwill key judgemental area as it requires consideration of whether specific and acquired intangible assets.
It tests goodwill for impairment criteria set out in accounting standards are present at the year end.
annually and when there is an indicator of impairment.
Acquired intangibles are tested where there is an indicator of impairment.
Our response: Our audit procedures in this area included, among A value in use model is used for impairment testing in both cases.
others: assessing the appropriateness of not classifying the The estimation of the value in use of cash generating units requires Initial Facilities business as held for sale applying the facts and significant judgement in relation to the appropriate discount rates, circumstances present at the year end to the criteria set out in Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 RemRep ID6 p55-74.
indd 73 01 04 2014 16:54 74 Corporate Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Rentokil Initial plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Rentokil Initial plc continued accounting standards and assessing the carrying value of the Initial In particular, we are required to report to you if: Facilities business, by considering whether any impairment exists we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge based on a fair value less cost to sales equivalent to the likely sale we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they price.
We also considered the adequacy of the disclosures in the consider that the annual report and financial statements taken financial statements.
as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups of the scope of our audit performance, business model and strategy: or The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at the activities of the committee in 2013 section of the Audit 7.5m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of committee report does not appropriately address matters profit before taxation, which we consider to be one of the principal communicated by us to the Audit committee.
considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the group.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, inour opinion: We agreed with the Audit committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent value in excess of 250,000.
We also agreed to report any audit Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received misstatement below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting from branches not visited by us: or on qualitative grounds.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Audits for group reporting purposes were performed by component Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement auditors at the key reporting components in each of the following with the accounting records and returns: or segments: France, Benelux, Germany, Pacific, North America, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law UK & Ireland, Rest of World, Asia and Initial Facilities and by the group are not made: or audit team in the UK & Ireland.
These audits covered 82% of total group revenue: 77% of profit before taxation: and 81% of total group we have not received all the information and explanations we assets in absolute terms.
The segment disclosures in Note A1 set require for our audit.
out the individual significance of each specific segment.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key the directors statement, set out on page 51, in relation to going reporting components of the group were all performed to materiality concern: and levels set by, or agreed with, the group audit team.
These materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 34 0.1m to 2.5m.
relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these locations.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information Scope of report and responsibilities required to be reported back to the group audit team.
The group audit As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement team visited Initial Facilities in the UK, France and the Netherlands, as set out on page 54, the directors are responsible for the preparation well as having several phone calls with the US throughout their audit.
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors at these locations statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website both during our planning and to evaluate the results of their audit at www.
This report is made solely procedures during the year end audit.
to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which In our opinion: are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Paul Sawdon Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters Chartered Accountants on which we are required to report by exception 15 Canada Square Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, London based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have E14 5GL identified other information in the annual report that contains a material 28 February 2014 inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 RemRep ID6 p55-74.
indd 74 01 04 2014 16:54 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Contents 75 Strategic Report Financial Statements Our Business 2 Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive 4 Our Operating Model 8 Our Strategy 10 Managing the Business for Profitable Growth 12 Pest Control 16 Hygiene 18 Workwear 20 Business Overview 22 Business Review 23 Key Performance Indicators 25 Risks and Uncertainties 27 Corporate Governance Board of Directors 30 Executive Leadership Team 32 Chairmans Statement 33 Corporate Governance Report 34 Audit Committee Report 42 Nomination Committee Report 48 Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures 50 Directors Remuneration Report 55 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Rentokil Initial plc 73 Consolidated Income Statement 76 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 77 Consolidated Balance Sheet 78 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 79 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 81 Notes to the Accounts 82 Principal Operating Subsidiary and Associated Undertakings 128 Five-Year Summary 129 Parent Company Balance Sheet 130 Notes to the Parent Company Accounts 131 Additional Information Shareholder Information 138 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 Financials ID6 p75-136.
