38 Annual Report 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Independent auditors report to the members of The Restaurant Group plc Opinion on financial statements of notes 1 to 26.
The financial reporting framework that has The Restaurant Group plc been applied in the preparation of the Group financial In our opinion: statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state been applied in the preparation of the parent Company of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom 29 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted 52 week period then ended: Accounting Practice.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Going concern Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the the parent Company financial statements have been Directors statement on page 21 that the Group is a going properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom concern.
We confirm that: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and we have concluded that the Directors use of the going the financial statements have been prepared in accordance concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, financial statements is appropriate: and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the we have not identified any material uncertainties that may IAS Regulation.
cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The financial statements comprise the Group income statement, the Group and Parent Company balance sheets, However, because not all future events or conditions can be the Group cash flow statement, the Group statement predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups of changes in equity, the Parent Company reconciliation ability to continue as a going concern.
of movements in shareholders funds and the related Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of tangible fixed assets We evaluated the appropriateness of the assumptions used Tangible fixed assets are the most quantitatively significant to assess whether tangible fixed assets have been impaired.
item on the balance sheet.
The assessment of the carrying Our testing specifically focused on the identification of CGUs value of tangible fixed assets requires evaluating whether and whether any indicators of impairment were identified by any indicators of impairment exist and the identification and management.
Where indicators of impairment were identified, expected future profitability of cash generating units CGUs.
we challenged the process for improving the profitability of sites.
We evaluated this through the use of benchmarking with comparator sites and appropriate sensitivity analysis.
Impairment of goodwill We evaluated the appropriateness of the assumptions used The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill involves within the impairment model for goodwill, as disclosed in exercising judgement on the future growth rates and note 9 to the financial statements.
Our testing specifically profitability of the company, and the application of an focused on projections of future cash flows, including review appropriate discount rate.
of historical performance, and discount rates applied, and we tested the sensitivity of the model to these judgements.
Lease accounting We conducted testing to evaluate whether the classification The accounting for leases involves exercising judgement and accounting for new leases was appropriate through a including whether leases meet the definition of an operating review of the lease terms.
or a finance lease and the identification of onerous leases, We assessed the adequacy and completeness of onerous their expected future cash flows including discounting.
leases through recalculation and testing to a combination of subleases and valuations.
Discount rates used were assessed for appropriateness, and the accuracy of managements historic estimates was also assessed.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2013 39 The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out Opinion on other matters prescribed on page 36. by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a audited has been properly prepared in accordance whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts with the Companies Act 2006: and or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not the information given in the Strategic Report and the modified with respect to any of the risks described above, report of the Directors for the financial year for which and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Matters on which we are required to report financial statements that makes it probable that the economic by exception decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be Adequacy of explanations received and changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning accounting records the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required our work.
to report to you if, in our opinion: We determined materiality for the group to be 5.4 million, we have not received all the information and explanations which is approximately 7.5% of profit before tax, and below we require for our audit: or 3% of equity.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report not been received from branches not visited by us: or to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 108,000, the parent Company financial statements are not in as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, agreement with the accounting records and returns.
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report An overview of the scope of our audit if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration of the Group and its environment, including group-wide Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from at the group level.
Based on this assessment our Group audit scope focused on Corporate Governance Statement the Groups head office in London and the accounting function Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the in Chester, which were subject to a full audit.
This represents part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 100% of the Groups net assets, revenue and profit before Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK tax.
This provides an appropriate basis for undertaking audit Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report work to address the risks of material misstatement identified arising from our review.
Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual subsidiary entity, which were lower than Group materiality.
All audit work done across all components was carried out by the Group audit team.
40 Annual Report 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Independent auditors report to the members of The Restaurant Group plc continued Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to in the annual report is: give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by materially inconsistent with the information in the audited fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the financial statements: or accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness in the course of performing our audit: or of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: otherwise misleading.
and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial In particular, we are required to consider whether we have information in the annual report to identify material identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to acquired during the audit and the Directors statement identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge understandable and whether the annual report appropriately acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we discloses those matters that we communicated to the become aware of any apparent material misstatements or audit committee which we consider should have been inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Mark Lee-Amies, FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities London, United Kingdom Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 26 February 2014 of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
