84 Rexam Annual Report 2013 independent auditors report to the members of Rexam plC OuR OpiniOn In our opinion the Group financial statements, defined below: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
WhAt We hAve Audited The Group financial statements, which are prepared by Rexam PLC, comprise: The consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2013.
The consolidated income statement for the year then ended.
The consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended.
The consolidated statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and The notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of principal accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross referenced from the financial statements and are marked as audited.
WhAt An Audit Of finAnCiAl stAtements invOlves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OveRvieW Of OuR Audit AppROACh materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatement, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we set materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole at 20 million.
In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets, and the fair value adjustment on derivatives.
Materiality was calculated as 5% of this performance measure.
We agreed with the audit and risk committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1m, as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group is structured along five sectors: Beverage Can North America, Beverage Can South America, Beverage Can Europe, Beverage Can Africa Middle East & Asia AMEA, and Healthcare.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of these sectors, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions in these geographic areas.
In establishing the overall Group audit strategy and plan, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at each territory within the sectors by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those territories to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis of our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Of the Groups five sectors, we identified four which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures on certain account balances and transactions were performed at AMEA, the remaining sector.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the audit and risk committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 55 and 56.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 85 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the risk Impairment assessment We focused on this area because the assessment of the carrying value of We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts, including comparing goodwill and intangible assets, and the annual impairment review the them to the latest Board approved budgets and testing the integrity of the directors are required to perform, requires the directors to make complex underlying calculations.
We challenged the directors key assumptions for judgements about the future results of the business.
Refer to note 12 and discount and long term growth rates in the forecasts.
In addition, we note 13 of the financial statements.
performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts, including revenue and trading margin, to determine the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for assets to be impaired and the likelihood of such a change arising.
For assets held for sale we examined the external offers received as the basis of the fair value of the business and the estimated costs to sell.
Significant contracts We focused on significant contracts entered into by the Group because of We examined significant new contracts, in particular those effective in the complexity of large contracts and the associated accounting 2013, including testing the Groups own contract review process, and implications.
focused in particular on the treatment of up front payments, take or pay obligations, and potential embedded derivatives.
Provision for tax exposures We focused on the directors assessment of the need for a provision We read the latest correspondence between the Group and the tax relating to challenges by the tax authorities, particularly in Brazil, Russia, authorities, held meetings with senior Group management, including the the US, and the UK because of the inherent uncertainty of the amount of Groups in house tax specialists, and assessed the tax provisions established provision required.
Refer to note 27 to the financial statements.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
We tested the timing of revenue recognition, and in particular we discussed Because of this, we focused on the existence of revenue and timing of and understood new agreements and trading arrangements and evaluated recognition.
their impact on revenue recognition.
We also examined underlying sales data and third party evidence and tested non standard manual journal entries impacting revenue.
Risk of management override of internal controls ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We performed detailed testing over manual journal entries.
We considered whether there was evidence of bias by the directors in the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements.
We also assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
GOinG COnCeRn Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 80, in relation to going concern.
We have no exceptions to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit, we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
OpiniOns On mAtteRs pResCRibed by the COmpAnies ACt 2006 In our opinion the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
86 Rexam Annual Report 2013 independent auditors report to the members of Rexam plC continued OtheR mAtteRs On WhiCh We ARe RequiRed tO RepORt by exCeptiOn directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate Governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 80 of the annual report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On pages 55 and 56, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the audit and risk committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the audit and risk committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Other information in the annual report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
RespOnsibilities fOR the finAnCiAl stAtements And the Audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 80, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OtheR mAtteR We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Rexam PLC for the year ended 31 December 2013, and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Neil Grimes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 20 February 2014
