Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance | Independent auditors report to the members of Rightmove plc Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, testing managements controls in place over the 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified billing of customers in line with contract terms.
For the most We have audited the financial statements of Rightmove plc for significant revenue streams we performed detailed analytical the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 66 to procedures using computer assisted audit techniques to 103.
In our opinion: analyse the amounts billed to customers by product in order the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state to identify trends and investigate any anomalies and outliers.
of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at We inspected significant contracts signed in the year on a 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year sample basis, to assess whether revenue has been then ended: recognised in accordance with the specific contract terms the Group financial statements have been properly prepared and conditions and relevant accounting standards.
For new in accordance with International Financial Reporting membership offers operated during the year we assessed Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as the impact of discounts or free periods by inspecting details adopted by the EU : of the membership contracts and subscription numbers for the parent Company financial statements have been the year.
We assessed the appropriateness of deferred properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by revenue at the period end with reference to subscription fee the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of billings in December and consideration of specific product the Companies Act 2006: and deferrals, where amounts are billed in advance but revenue the financial statements have been prepared in accordance recognition deferred until use or expiry.
We also considered with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as the adequacy of the Groups accounting policy and regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS disclosures see Notes 1, 2 and 5 in respect of revenue Regulation.
recognition, and whether disclosures properly reflect the risks inherent in recognising revenue.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial Share-based incentives and related deferred tax statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the balances 2,408,000 and 5,338,000 respectively greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Refer to page 31 Corporate Governance Report, pages 76 to 78 accounting policy and page 92 to 93: Revenue recognition 139,935,000 96 to 100 financial disclosures Refer to page 30 Corporate Governance Report, page 77 The risk: The Group provides share-based incentive plans accounting policy and pages 80 to 81 financial disclosures allowing executive directors and other selected senior The risk: Revenue primarily consists of subscription fees management to acquire shares in the parent Company.
and spend on additional advertising products in respect of Each scheme differs based on the terms of the scheme with properties listed on rightmove.
co. uk, and is recognised over varying levels of complexity.
The choice of valuation the period of subscription and as additional advertising methodology and the inputs used to calculate the initial fair products are used.
Individual contracts exist with each value for new grants is one of the key judgemental areas of customer, which include a variety of differing terms and our audit.
In view of the materiality of the amounts involved, conditions.
In addition Rightmove operate a number of the sensitivity of these amounts to a change in the membership offers during the year, some of which include assumptions used and the complexities of calculating the discounted or free periods.
Given these complexities we share-based incentive charge and related deferred tax consider a significant risk exists in relation to revenue, balances, this is deemed to be an area of significant risk.
specifically that the billing of customers is in line with the appropriate contract and that membership incentives are recognised in the period to which they relate.
Rightmove plc annual report 2013 63 Governance | Independent auditors report to the members of Rightmove plc continued Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the among others, evaluating the assumptions and Companies Act 2006 is unmodified methodologies used by the Group to value new schemes in In our opinion: the year and estimate the number of shares that will the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be eventually be issued.
We agreed key inputs in the models to audited has been properly prepared in accordance with internally and externally derived sources.
Certain of the key the Companies Act 2006: and inputs, specifically the risk free rate, share volatility, the information given in the Strategic Report and the expected dividend yield, leaver assumptions and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial performance conditions, require significant estimation and statements are prepared is consistent with the financial judgement in their selection, and can have a significant statements.
impact on the derived fair value.
For these key inputs we the information given in the Corporate Governance critically assessed the reasonableness of the Groups Statement set out on pages 24 to 32 with respect to internal assumptions by reference to external data and historical control and risk management systems in relation to financial trends, along with reports from the Groups external reporting processes and about share capital structures is consultants.
We also obtained the share-based incentive consistent with the financial statements.
workings and performed procedures over the accuracy of calculation of the share-based incentive charge.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters we used our own tax specialists to consider the accuracy on which we are required to report by exception of the related deferred tax charge for the year.
We also Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you assessed whether the Groups disclosures in these areas if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we see Notes 21 and 24 are appropriate.
have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, scope of our audit or that is otherwise misleading.
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole In particular, we are required to report to you if: was set at 5.0m.
This has been determined with reference to we have identified material inconsistencies between the a benchmark of Group profit before tax of which it represents knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors 5.2% which we consider to be one of the principle statement that they consider that the Annual Report and considerations for members of the Company in assessing financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and financial performance of the Group.
understandable and provides the information necessary for We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit model and strategy: or with a value in excess of 0.25m, in addition to other audit the Corporate Governance Report does not appropriately misstatements below that threshold that we believe address matters communicated by us to the Audit warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
report misstatements corrected by management where we believe these will assist the Audit Committee in fulfilling its Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to governance responsibilities.
you if, in our opinion: The Group audit team also audit the wholly owned adequate accounting records have not been kept by the component, Rightmove Group Limited which represents all of parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not the operations of the Group, and accordingly 100% of total been received from branches not visited by us: or Group revenue: 100% of Group profit before taxation and 100% the parent Company financial statements and the part of the of total Group assets were audited to the above materiality.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 32, in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 24 to 32 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 36, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Karen Wightman Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Altius House 1 North Fourth Street Milton Keynes Buckinghamshire MK9 1NE 28 February 2014 Rightmove plc annual report 2013 65
