Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited For the purpose of this report, the terms we and our denote What we have audited  LLP in relation to UK legal, professional and regulatory The Group financial statements the financial statements, which are responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Rio Tinto plc prepared by Rio Tinto Group, comprise: and  in relation to Australian legal, professional the Group statement of financial position as at 31 December 2013: and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income of Rio Tinto Limited.
for the year then ended: The relevant legislation governing the companies is the United Kingdom the Group statement of cash flows for the year then ended: Companies Act 2006 for Rio Tinto plc and the Corporations Act 2001 as the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: amended by the ASIC order dated 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012 the ASIC Order for Rio Tinto Limited.
notes 1 47 to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information: Report on the financial statements the outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial Opinion of  LLP on the financial statements to statements: and the members of Rio Tinto plc the Rio Tinto financial information by business unit.
In our opinion:  LLP has audited the Rio Tinto plc company financial the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Rio Tinto state of the Groups and of Rio Tinto plcs affairs as at 31 December 2013 plc company balance sheet and the related notes.
 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: has audited the Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards and the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Rio Tinto Limited financial report, which comprises the financial statements with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the Directors declaration on page 202. the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements have been properly The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting of the Group financial statements is applicable law in the United Kingdom Practice: and and applicable law in Australia as amended by the Australian Securities and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Investments Commission Order dated 22 December 2010, as amended on requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 17 February 2012 the ASIC Order described in the Australian Corporations financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Act Summary of ASIC relief, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements is applicable law and Separate opinion of  LLP in relation United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Accounting Practice.
As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition What an audit of financial statements involves to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland and Australian Auditing Standards.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the by the IASB.
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Opinion of  on the financial report error.
This includes an assessment of: to the members of Rio Tinto Limited In our opinion: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Parent Companies circumstances and have been consistently applied the financial report of Rio Tinto Limited is in accordance with the and adequately disclosed: Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order, including: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the i. giving a true and fair view of the Groups financial position as at directors: and 31 December 2013 and of its performance for the year ended on that date: the overall presentation of the financial statements.
complying with the Australian Accounting Standards including the The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgement, including the Australian Accounting Interpretations and the Corporations Regulations assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, 2001: and whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor the Groups financial report also complies with IFRSs as disclosed in note 1. considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual audit work at those business units to be able to conclude whether sufficient Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on to the members of Rio Tinto Limited and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, the Group financial statements as a whole.
or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of For the purpose of this report, the terms we and our denote What we have audited We identified 3 business units which, in our view, required an audit of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material  LLP in relation to UK legal, professional and regulatory The Group financial statements the financial statements, which are their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Rio Tinto plc prepared by Rio Tinto Group, comprise: characteristics.
Those business units are Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd, Robe River and  in relation to Australian legal, professional Mining Co. and Minera Escondida Limitada.
Specific audit procedures on Overview of our audit approach the Group statement of financial position as at 31 December 2013: and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 19 business Materiality the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income of Rio Tinto Limited.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the for the year then ended: gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial The relevant legislation governing the companies is the United Kingdom nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect the Group statement of cash flows for the year then ended: statements as a whole.
Companies Act 2006 for Rio Tinto plc and the Corporations Act 2001 as of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: amended by the ASIC order dated 22 December 2010 as amended on Areas of particular audit focus Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the 17 February 2012 the ASIC Order for Rio Tinto Limited.
notes 1 47 to the financial statements, which include a summary In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of Group financial statements as a whole to be $600 million.
In arriving at this of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information: subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting judgement we have had regard to profit before tax, adjusted for items excluded Report on the financial statements estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events the outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial from underlying earnings as defined in note 2 to the financial statements.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by Opinion of  LLP on the financial statements to statements: and We consider an adjusted measure reflects what is typically used by members assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our the members of Rio Tinto plc of the Companies to assess financial performance.
the Rio Tinto financial information by business unit.
own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our opinion: Overview of the scope of our audit  LLP has audited the Rio Tinto plc company financial In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the The Group is organised into five product groups being Aluminium, Copper, statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Rio Tinto auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a state of the Groups and of Rio Tinto plcs affairs as at 31 December 2013 Diamonds & Minerals, Energy, and Iron Ore, which are all supported by plc company balance sheet and the related notes.
 reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: centralised functions.
Each product group is made up of a number of operating has audited the Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards and the through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a businesses which represent separate business units.
The Group financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Rio Tinto Limited financial report, which comprises the financial statements combination of both.
statements are a consolidation of business units, comprising the groups with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the Directors declaration on page 202. operating businesses and centralised functions.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements have been properly The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the of the Group financial statements is applicable law in the United Kingdom focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Practice: and type of work that needed to be performed at reporting units by us, as the and applicable law in Australia as amended by the Australian Securities and Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be Group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Investments Commission Order dated 22 December 2010, as amended on significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 61. operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 17 February 2012 the ASIC Order described in the Australian Corporations auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder Areas of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus of this report.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation Impairment assessment of the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements is applicable law and We focused on the directors assessment of the carrying We evaluated the Groups future cash flow forecasts, including comparing them to the latest Separate opinion of  LLP in relation United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted value and annual impairment reviews of goodwill Board approved budgets and considering the historical accuracy of forecasts.
We challenged the key to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Accounting Practice.
Oyu Tolgoi, long lived intangible assets Rio Tinto Alcan assumptions for discount rates, long term growth rates and prices by performing independent market As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition and property, plant & equipment both Rio Tinto Alcan analysis of these assumptions.
What an audit of financial statements involves to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs and Oyu Tolgoi because they involve complex and We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts, which included as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing subjective judgements by the directors about the future price assumptions and discount rates.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland and Australian Auditing Standards.
Refer to note 6 to the that either individually or collectively would be required for the asset to be impaired, we considered the In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
likelihood of such movements in those key assumptions arising.
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial Impact of cost savings initiatives on the overall control environment statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Opinion of  on the financial report We focused on the potential impact on the overall control We considered through enquiry with management and other operating personnel the potential areas of error.
This includes an assessment of: to the members of Rio Tinto Limited environment of reductions in headcount as part of the impact and directed our audit work, particularly in relation to our testing of control design and operating cost savings initiatives at some reporting units.
effectiveness, to those areas of greatest risk.
We evaluated the impact of our findings on our fraud risk In our opinion: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and assessment and overall audit approach.
Parent Companies circumstances and have been consistently applied the financial report of Rio Tinto Limited is in accordance with the Provisions for uncertain tax positions and adequately disclosed: Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order, including: We focused on the extent and quantum of provisions We obtained an understanding of the status of the Groups tax compliance in significant countries the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the i. giving a true and fair view of the Groups financial position as at made for uncertain tax positions as they involve complex and business units including the status of discussions with tax authorities and tax investigations.
directors: and 31 December 2013 and of its performance for the year ended on that date: and subjective judgements by the directors about We assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the tax provisions recognised for uncertain the overall presentation of the financial statements.
tax positions and related disclosures, utilising our experience of similar challenges elsewhere.
complying with the Australian Accounting Standards including the Revenue recognition The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgement, including the Australian Accounting Interpretations and the Corporations Regulations Auditing standards presume there is a risk of fraud in We assessed the design of the Groups key controls over revenue recognition and tested the operating assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, 2001: and revenue recognition.
We focused on checking that effectiveness of these controls at relevant reporting units.
We tested the timing of revenue recognition, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor revenue has been recognised and appropriately recorded taking into account contractual obligations, and in particular considered whether the Group appropriately the Groups financial report also complies with IFRSs as disclosed in note 1. considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair in the relevant period.
recorded revenue based on the terms of those contracts.
presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures We also performed testing on revenue journal entries.
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing Risk of management override of internal controls an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
Auditing standards require that we consider this.
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the tone at the top arrangements We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
the financial statements for evidence of bias by management or the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested key reconciliations and manual journal entries, including checking whether journals were approved, and whether reconciling items and journals were supported by appropriate documentation.
com reportingcentre2013 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued Going Concern Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in set out on page 109, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by having performed our review.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Parent Companies in respect of Governance Statement relating to Rio Tinto plcs compliance with nine both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited financial statements using the going provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the nothing to report having performed our review.
Group and Parent Companies have adequate resources to remain in operation, On page 67 of the Annual Report, as required by Code Provision C. 1.1, the and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these On page 61, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companies the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, ability to continue as a going concern.
and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:  LLPs opinions on matters prescribed the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our by the Companies Act 2006 knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or In our opinion: the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report Audit Committee.
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been Other information in the Annual Report properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on information in the Annual Report is: pages 57 to 67 in the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial the financial statements.
statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with,  LLPs report on other matters on our knowledge of the Group and Rio Tinto plc acquired in the course of which we are required to report by exception performing our audit: or Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations is otherwise misleading.
received We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:  report on other matters prescribed we have not received all the information and explanations we require by the Corporations Act 2001 for our audit: or Independence adequate accounting records have not been kept by Rio Tinto plc, or returns In conducting our audit, we have complied with the independence adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited requirements of the Corporations Act 2001. by us: or Report on the Remuneration Report the Rio Tinto plc financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the Under the Corporations Act 2001 in respect of Rio Tinto Limited we are accounting records and returns.
required to express an opinion on the Directors Remuneration Report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards.
The directors of Rio Tinto Limited are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Remuneration Report in accordance with section 300A Directors remuneration of the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have In our opinion: not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain the Remuneration Report included in the accompanying Annual Report elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
complies with the requirements of section 300A of the Corporations We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order: and the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued Going Concern Corporate Governance Statement Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Our responsibilities and those of the directors set out on page 109, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out having performed our review.
on page 202, the directors are responsible for As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate the preparation of the Group and Parent Companies in respect of both is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Parent Companies in respect of Governance Statement relating to Rio Tinto plcs compliance with nine Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited financial statements and for being both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited financial statements using the going provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have satisfied that they give a true and fair view: and concern basis of accounting.
such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the Group and Parent Companies have adequate resources to remain in operation, On page 67 of the Annual Report, as required by Code Provision C. 1.1, the preparation of the financial report that is free from material misstatement, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be whether due to fraud or error.
the financial statements were signed.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these On page 61, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out UK and Ireland and Australian Auditing Standards.
Those standards require statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companies the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors ability to continue as a going concern.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to and relevant ethical requirements relating to audit engagements in Australia.
report to you if, in our opinion:  LLPs opinions on matters prescribed This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as a body in accordance with by the Companies Act 2006 knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of Rio Tinto plc In our opinion: the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee and the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order in respect of does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report Rio Tinto Limited and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, Audit Committee.
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person consistent with the financial statements: to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
statements: or Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, for and on behalf of  LLP  LLPs report on other matters on our knowledge of the Group and Rio Tinto plc acquired in the course of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors which we are required to report by exception performing our audit: or London Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations is otherwise misleading.
5 March 2014 received We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:  report on other matters prescribed we have not received all the information and explanations we require by the Corporations Act 2001 for our audit: or Independence adequate accounting records have not been kept by Rio Tinto plc, or returns In conducting our audit, we have complied with the independence adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited Paul Bendall requirements of the Corporations Act 2001. by us: or Partner Report on the Remuneration Report  the Rio Tinto plc financial statements and the part of the Directors Melbourne Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the Under the Corporations Act 2001 in respect of Rio Tinto Limited we are 5 March 2014 accounting records and returns.
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
