Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 130 Other information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc only The measurement of revenue and profit in the Civil Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit aerospacebusiness 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Refer to page 81 Key areas of judgement Long-term aftermarket We have audited the financial statements of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc contracts, page 83 Significant accounting policies Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 75 to 129. recognition and page 44 Audit committee report Financial In ouropinion: reporting the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of The risk The amount of revenue and profit recognised in a year the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December on the sale of engines and aftermarket services is dependent, 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: inter alia, on the assessment of the percentage of completion the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in of long-term aftermarket contracts and the forecast cost profile accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as of each arrangement.
As long-term aftermarket contracts can adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRS : extend over significant periods and the profitability of these the parent company financial statements have been properly arrangements typically assumes significant life-cycle cost prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and improvement over the term of the contracts, the estimated the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with outturn requires significant judgement to be applied in assessing the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the engine flying hours, time on wing and other operating parameters, Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the pattern of future maintenance activity and the costs to be incurred.
The inherent nature of these estimates means that their 2 Our assessment of risks continual refinement can have an impact on the profits of the Civil In arriving at our opinions set out in this report, the risks that had aerospace business that can be significant in an individual the greatest effect on our audit and the key procedures we applied financial year.
The assessment of the estimated outturn for each to address them are set out below.
Those procedures were designed arrangement involves detailed calculations using large and in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, complex databases with a significant level of manual intervention.
consequently, where we set out findings we do not express any opinion on these individual risks.
Our response We tested the controls designed and applied by the Group to provide assurance that the estimates used in assessing The basis of accounting for revenue and profit in the Civil revenue and cost profiles are appropriate and that the resulting aerospace business estimated cumulative profit on such contracts is accurately Refer to page 81 Key areas of judgement Long-term aftermarket reflected in the financial statements: these controls operated over contracts, page 83 Significant accounting policies Revenue both the inputs and the outputs of the calculations.
We challenged recognition and page 44 Audit committee report Financial reporting the appropriateness of these estimates for each programme and The risk The amount of revenue and profit recognised in a year assessed whether or not the estimates showed any evidence onthe sale of engines and aftermarket services is dependent, ofmanagement bias.
Our challenge was based on our assessment interalia, on the appropriate assessment of whether or not each of the historical accuracy of the Groups estimates in previous long-term aftermarket contract for services is linked to or separate periods, identification and analysis of changes in assumptions from the contract for sale of the related engines.
As the from prior periods and an assessment of the consistency of commercial arrangements can be complex, significant judgement assumptions across programmes, detailed discussions and is applied in selecting the accounting basis in each case.
The most assessments of the achievability of the Groups plans to reduce significant risk is that the Group might inappropriately account for life-cycle costs and ananalysis of the impact of these plans on sales of engines and long term service agreements as a single forecast cost profiles taking account of contingencies and analysis arrangement for accounting purposes as this would usually lead of the impact of known technical issues on cost forecasts.
Our to revenue and profit being recognised too early because the analysis considered each significant airframe that is powered margin in the long term service agreement is usually higher than by the Groups engines and was based on our own experience the margin in the engine sale agreement.
supplemented by discussions with an aircraft valuation specialist engaged by the Group.
We assessed whether the valuer was Our response We made our own independent assessment, with objective and suitably qualified.
We also checked reference to the relevant accounting standards, of the accounting themathematical accuracy of the revenue and profit for each basis that should be applied to each long-term aftermarket arrangement and considered the implications of identified errors contract entered into during the year and compared this to the and changes in estimates.
accounting basis applied by the Group.
Our findings Our testing identified weaknesses in the design and Our findings We found that the Group has developed a framework operation of controls.
In response to this we assessed the for selecting the accounting basis to be used which is consistent effectiveness of the Groups plans for addressing these weaknesses with accounting standards and has applied this consistently.
and we increased the scope and depth of our detailed testing and For almost all the agreements entered into during this year, it analysis from that originally planned.
We found no significant was clear which accounting basis should apply.
Where there was errors in calculation.
Overall, our assessment is that the room for interpretation, we found the Groups judgement to have assumptions and resulting estimates including appropriate been balanced.
contingencies resulted in mildly cautious profit recognition.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 131 Recoverability of intangible assets certification costs and Accounting for the consolidation of Rolls-Royce Power Systems participation fees, development expenditure and recoverable Holding GmbH and valuation of Daimler AGs put option engine costs and amounts recoverable on contracts primarily Refer to page 81 Key areas of judgement Rolls-Royce Power Systems inthe Civil aerospace business Holding GmbH, page 82 Key sources of estimation uncertainty Refer to page 82 Key sources of estimation uncertainty Forecasts Intangible assets arising on consolidation of Rolls-Royce Power Systems and discount rates, pages 86 and 87 Significant accounting policies AG and put option on Rolls-Royce Power Systems Holding GmbH, Certification costs and participation fees, Research and development, page83 Accounting policies Basis of consolidation and page44 Recoverable engine costs and Impairment of non-current assets, Audit committee report Financial reporting page 99 Note 9 to the financial statements Intangible assets and Control of Rolls-Royce Power Systems Holding GmbH page 44 Audit committee report Financial reporting The risk Rolls-Royce Power Systems Holding GmbH a special The risk The recovery of these assets depends on a combination of purpose vehicle owned equally by the Group and Daimler AG achieving sufficiently profitable business in the future as well as RRPSH acquired a controlling interest in Rolls-Royce Power the ability of customers to pay amounts due under contracts often Systems AG RRPS on 25August 2011.
From that date, the Group over a long period of time.
Assets relating to a particular engine equity accounted for itsjoint venture interest in RRPSH as control programme are more prone to the risk of impairment in the early was shared with Daimler AG.
On 1 January 2013, conditions were years of a programme as the engines market position is fulfilled which theGroup considered gave it control over RRPSH established.
In addition, the pricing of business with launch and from that date the Groups 50percent interest has been customers makes assets relating to these engines more prone classified as a subsidiary and RRPSH has been consolidated in the tothe risk of impairment.
Assessing whetheror not the Group controls RRPSH isa critical accounting judgement.
The rights of Our response We tested the controls designed and applied by the the Group and Daimler AG are encapsulated in shareholder Group to provide assurance that the assumptions are regularly agreements and assessing whether the Groups rights are updated, that changes are monitored, scrutinised and approved sufficient to give it control over RRPSH requires detailed byappropriate personnel and that the final assumptions used in consideration of the relevant provisions and a commercial impairment testing have been appropriately approved.
We assessment as to which rights are most important.
challenged the appropriateness of the key assumptions in the impairment test including market size, market share, pricing, Our response We analysed the shareholder agreements with engine and aftermarket unit costs, individual programme particular reference to rights relating to key matters including the assumptions, price and cost escalation, discount rate and existence of a casting vote in respect of key matters described on exchange rates focusing particularly on those assets with page81 at the shareholders meeting and Shareholders Committee ahigher risk of impairment those relating to the Trent 900 of RRPSH.
programme and launch customers on the Trent 900 and 1000 Our findings We found that the terms of the agreements provide programmes.
Our challenge was based on our assessment of the the Group with the power to establish key operating and capital historical accuracy of the Groups estimates in previous periods, decisions of RRPSH and to appoint, remove and set the our understanding of the commercial prospects of key engine remuneration of key management personnel.
The agreements programmes, identification and analysis of changes in alsoprovide Daimler AG with rights in particular over matters assumptions from prior periods and an assessment of the thatwould significantly change the scale, scope and financing consistency of assumptions across programmes and customers ofRRPSHs business, certain significant supplier relationships and comparison of assumptions with publicly available data and changes to contractual arrangements between RRPSH with where this was available.
We considered the appropriateness Rolls-Royce which we have determined provide protection to ofthe related disclosures in note 9 to the financial statements.
Daimler AG over its interest in RRPSH but are not sufficient Our findings Our testing did not identify any deviation in the to prevent the Group from controlling RRPSH.
On that basis, operation of controls which would have required us to amend the we consider that it is appropriate that RRPSH and hence RRPS nature or scope of our planned detailed test work.
We found that has been consolidated from 1 January 2013. the assumptions and resulting estimates were balanced and that the disclosures in note 9 appropriately describe the inherent degree of subjectivity in the estimates and the potential impact on future periods of revisions to these estimates.
We found no errors in calculations.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 132 Other information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Consolidation of Rolls-Royce Power Systems Holding GmbH Liabilities arising from sales financing arrangements The risk Estimating the fair value of intangible assets of RRPS Refer to page 82 Key areas of judgement financing support, page at the date of consolidation involved the use of complex valuation 88 Significant accounting policies Sales financing support, page 112 techniques and the estimation of future cash flows overa Note 18 to the financial statements Provisions for liabilities and considerable period of time.
To the extent that greater or charges and page 44 Audit committee report Financial reporting lesser value is attributed to intangibles which are subject to The risk The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of amortisation, lesser or greater value is attributed to goodwill financing and asset value support provided to customers.
support typically takes the form of either a guarantee with respect Our response We evaluated the basis upon which the Directors to the value of an aircraft at a future date or a guarantee of a identified and assessed the fair value of each significant asset, customers future payments under an aircraft financing liability and contingent liability of RRPS and its subsidiaries having arrangement.
Judgement is required to assess the likelihood of regard to the relevant accounting standards.
For the intangible these liabilities crystallising, in order to assess whether a provision assets, we assessed whether the measurement basis and should be recognised and if so the amount of that provision.
The assumptions underlying the estimate of the fair values were total potential liability is significant and can be affected by the reasonable, taking account of our experience of similar assets in assessment of the residual value of the aircraft and the other comparable situations and of the work performed by a creditworthiness of the customers.
valuer engaged by the Group.
We assessed whether the valuer Our response We analysed the terms of guarantees on aircraft wasobjective and suitably qualified, had been appropriately delivered during the year in detail and obtained aircraft values instructed and had been provided with complete, accurate data from and held discussions with aircraft valuation specialists on which to base its evaluation.
We also assessed whether or not engaged by the Group.
We assessed whether the valuer was the estimates showed any evidence of management bias with objective and suitably qualified, had been appropriately afocus on whether there was any indication of value being instructed and had been provided with complete, accurate data inappropriately attributed to goodwill rather than on which to base its evaluation.
For all contracts on delivered depreciableassets.
aircraft, we assessed the commercial factors relevant to the Our findings We found that the intangible assets identified were likelihood of the guarantees being called, including the credit typical for acquisitions of similar businesses and that the valuation ratings and recent financial performance of the relevant bases used were in accordance with accounting standards.
We customers and their fleet plans, and critically assessed the Groups have no concerns with the basis on which the valuer had been estimate of the required provisions for those liabilities.
We instructed by the Group and found that i the valuer was objective considered movements in aircraft values and potential changes and competent, ii the estimates used in the valuations were in the assessed probability of a liability crystallising since the balanced and did not result in either too much or too little previous year end and considered whether the evidence supported goodwill being recognised and iii the valuations arrived at by the Groups assessment as to whether or not a liability needs to be the valuer had been adopted by the Group without adjustment.
recognised and the amount of the liability recognised or contingent liability disclosed.
We considered the appropriateness Valuation of Daimler AGs put option of the related disclosure in note 18 to the financial statements.
The risk As part of the shareholder agreements, for a period of six years from 1 January 2013 Daimler AG has the option to require Our findings We found that the assumptions and estimates were the Group to purchase its 50percent interest in RRPSH.
The balanced and that note 18 appropriately discloses the potential estimated amount of the purchase price of this option has been liability in excess of the amount provided for in the financial recognised as a financial liability on the Group balance sheet.
The statements for delivered aircraft and highlights the significant purchase price is based on averaging three valuations, which are butunquantifiable contingent liability in respect of aircraft based on both internal and external metrics, at the date the whichwill be delivered in the future.
The external metrics include price earnings ratios for comparable companies and those implicit in comparable transactions.
There is judgement involved in choosing appropriate comparable companies and transactions and in predicting what these might be at a futuredate.
Our response We analysed the shareholder agreements and tested the reasonableness of the estimate of the purchase price of the option, including assessing whether the Groups judgement as to which external metrics should be used was appropriate, and the accuracy of its calculation.
We also assessed whether or not the estimates showed any evidence of management bias with a particular focus on the risk that the liability might be understated given its visibility.
Our findings We found that the resulting estimate was acceptable but mildly optimistic resulting in a somewhat lower liability being recorded than might otherwise have been the case.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 133 Accounting for risk and revenue sharing arrangements tell, we found that the accounting applied by the Group was Refer to page 81 Key areas of judgement Risk and revenue sharing similar to the approach taken by others.
We found that the change arrangements, page 84 Significant accounting policies Risk and to the accounting policy made by the Group was appropriate given revenue sharing arrangements, page 11 Chief Financial Officers the incidence of entry fees in the year and the costs capitalised on review and page 44 Audit committee report Financial reporting the programmes to which these entry fees relate.
We found that the disclosures in the financial statements properly describe the The risk The Group receives non-refundable cash payments under accounting treatment adopted by the Group and the directors risk and revenue sharing arrangements which are referred to as basis for applying that treatment.
The assessment of when these entry fees should be recognised in the income statement involves analysis of their Bribery and corruption commercial substance in the context of the agreement as a whole.
Refer to page 120 Note 23 to the financial statements Contingent As there is no single accounting standard that directly addresses liabilities and page 44 Audit committee report Financial reporting these types of agreements, management has to apply very The risk A large part of the Groups business is characterised by significant judgement in deciding how to apply the various competition for individually significant contracts with customers provisions of accounting standards that are relevant to different which are often directly or indirectly associated with governments aspects of the agreements.
These arrangements are complex and and the award of individually significant contracts to suppliers.
have features that could be indicative of: a collaboration The procurement processes associated with these activities are agreement, including sharing of risk and cost in a development highly susceptible to the risk of corruption.
In addition the Group programme: a long-term supply agreement: sharing of operates in a number of territories where the use of commercial intellectual property: or a combination of these.
intermediaries is either required by the government or is normal Our response We independently analysed the agreements under practice.
The Group is currently under investigation by law which significant entry fees have been received to establish the enforcement agencies, primarily the Serious Fraud Office in the UK range of possible accounting treatments that could be adopted and the US Department of Justice.
Breaches of laws and regulations and to assess which of these would in our view most appropriately in this area can lead to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution, reflect the requirements of accounting standards.
The most commercial litigation and restrictions on future business.
significant accounting standards considered were Our response We evaluated and tested the Groups policies, IAS8Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and procedures and controls over the selection and renewal of errors, IAS 18 Revenue, IFRS 11 Joint arrangements in terms of the intermediaries, contracting arrangements, ongoing management, timing of recognition of the entry fees and IAS 1 Presentation of payments and responses to suspected breaches of policy.
We financial statements in respect of their presentation as an offset sought to identify and tested payments made to intermediaries against the expenditure to which they relate.
We also had regard during the year, made enquiries of appropriate personnel and to the definitions of assets, liabilities, income and expenses in the evaluated the tone set by the Board and the Executive Leadership IFRS Framework and, to the extent they did not conflict with Team and the Groups approach to managing this risk.
Having Adopted IFRS, to pronouncements of other standard-setting enquired of management, the audit committee and the Board as bodies that more explicitly address accounting for payments from to whether the Group is in compliance with laws and regulations suppliers and collaborative arrangements.
We examined relating to bribery and corruption, we made written enquiries correspondence between the Group and the Financial Reporting of the Groups legal advisers to corroborate the results of those Council and attended meetings between them.
We sought to enquiries and maintained a high level of vigilance to possible identify the accounting applied in similar circumstances by other indications of significant non-compliance with laws and companies including the Groups direct competitors and compare regulations relating to bribery and corruption whilst carrying out these to the approach adopted by the Group and the requirements our other audit procedures.
We discussed the areas of potential or of Adopted IFRS.
We assessed whether the change to the suspected breaches of law, including the ongoing investigation, accounting policy made in the year was appropriate and with the audit committee and the Board of directors as well as the recalculated the resulting amounts in the financial statements.
Groups legal advisers and assessed related documentation.
We We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures.
assessed whether the financial effects of potential or suspected Our findings Our analysis indicated that in substance, from the breaches of law or regulation have been properly disclosed in point of view of both the Group and the risk and revenue sharing note23 to the financial statements.
workshare partners, the entry fees represent the reimbursement Our findings We found that the disclosures in note23 to the of expenditure incurred by the Group as part of an engine financial statements reflect appropriately the matters required development programme and that this represented a significant to be disclosed by accounting standards and highlighted that, as transfer ofdevelopment risk from the Group to the partners that the investigation is at too early a stage to assess the consequences should bereflected in the income statement at the time the if any, including in particular the size of any possible fines, no reimbursed expenditure is recognised.
On that basis, we found provision can be made at year end.
that the revised accounting policy most appropriately reflects the commercial substance of the entry fees.
So far as it was possible to Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 134 Other information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT The presentation of underlying profit Our findings We have no concerns regarding the basis of the Refer to page 10 Chief Financial Officers review, page 89 Note 2 to underlying financial information or its calculation and found the financial statements Segmental analysis and page 44 Audit noindication of management bias in the way the Group managed committee report Financial reporting forward foreign exchange contracts during the year.
We consider that there is sufficient appropriate disclosure of the nature and The risk In addition to its Adopted IFRS financial statements, the amounts of the adjustments to allow shareholders to understand Group presents an alternative income statement on an the implications of the two bases on the financial measures being underlying basis.
The directors believe the underlying income presented.
We consider that the underlying financial information statement reflects better the Groups trading performance during is useful to shareholders as an adjunct to the Adopted IFRS the year.
The basis of adjusting between the Adopted IFRS and financial information particularly in the context of isolating underlying income statements and a full reconciliation between trends resulting from trading performance from trends that them is set out in note 2 to the financial statements on pages 89 result from other factors.
We found the presentation of the and 91.
A significant recurring adjustment between the Adopted underlying financial information to be balanced.
IFRS income statement and the underlying income statement relates to the foreign exchange rate used to translate foreign In addition to these key audit risks, we also focused on the currency transactions.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange recognition of revenue and profit on other long-term contracts: contracts to manage the cash flow exposures of forecast theimplementation of a new consolidation system: warranties transactions denominated in foreign currencies but does not andguarantees: valuation of derivative contracts: valuation of generally apply hedge accounting in its Adopted IFRS income post-retirement scheme liabilities: and the recoverability of tax statement.
The underlying income statement translates these assets and the adequacy of provisions for tax contingencies.
amounts at the achieved foreign exchange rate on forward foreign 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope exchange contracts settled in the period, retranslates assets and of ouraudit liabilities at exchange rates forecast to be achieved from future The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was settlement of such contracts and excludes unrealised gains and set at 86million.
This has been calculated with reference to a losses on such contracts which are included in the Adopted IFRS benchmark of profit before taxation representing 4.9% of reported income statement.
In addition, adjustments are made to exclude and underlying profit before taxation which we consider to be one one-off past-service credits on post-retirement schemes and the of the principal considerations for members of the company in effect of acquisition accounting and a number of other items.
assessing the financial performance of the Group.
Alternative performance measures can provide investors with We agreed with the audit committee to report to it the following appropriate additional information if properly used and presented.
misstatements that we identified through our audit: i all material In such cases, measures such as these can assist investors in gaining corrected misstatements: ii uncorrected misstatements with a better understanding of a companys financial performance and avalue in excess of 4million for income statement items strategy.
However, when improperly used and presented, these or8million for balance sheet reclassifications : and iii other kinds of measures might mislead investors by hiding the real misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted financial position and results or by making the profitability of the reporting on qualitative grounds.
reporting entity seem more attractive.
In order to gain appropriate audit coverage of the risks described Our response We assessed the appropriateness of the basis for above and of each individually significant reporting component: the adjustments between the Adopted IFRS income statement and the underlying income statement and recalculated the a audits for Group reporting purposes were carried out at 13 key adjustments with a particular focus on the impact of the foreign reporting components located in the following countries: United exchange rate used to translate foreign currency amounts in the Kingdom 9 key reporting components, USA 1, Germany 2 and underlying income statement.
As the Group has discretion over Norway 1.
In addition, audits for Group reporting purposes were which forward foreign exchange contracts are settled in each performed at a further 20 reporting components.
Together these financial year, which could impact the achieved rate both for the covered 90percent of revenue, 87percent of underlying profit period and in the future, we assessed whether or not this showed before taxation and 85percent of total assets: and any evidence of management bias.
We also assessed: i the extent b specified reporting procedures were carried out over key risk to which the prominence given to the underlying financial areas at a further 12 reporting components, none of which are information and related commentary in the annual report considered to be key.
compared to the Adopted IFRS financial information and related commentary could be misleading: ii whether the Adopted IFRS In total our procedures covered 98percent of revenue, 99percent and underlying financial information are reconciled with of underlying profit before taxation and 94percent of total assets.
sufficient prominence given to that reconciliation: iii whether the basis of the underlying financial information is clearly and accurately described and consistently applied: and iv whether the underlying financial information is not otherwise misleading inthe form and context in which it appears in the annual report.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 135 Detailed audit instructions were sent to the auditors of all these Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: reporting components.
These instructions covered the significant the directors statement, set out on page 72, in relation to going audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included concern: and the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set the part of the corporate governance report on page 39 relating out the information required to be reported back to the group audit to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK team.
The group audit team visited the following locations: United Corporate Governance Code 2010 specified for our review.
Kingdom, USA, Germany, Norway and Singapore.
Telephone We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
meetings were also held with the auditors at these locations and Scope of report and responsibilities the majority of the other locations that were not physically visited.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the set out on pages 72 and 73, the directors are responsible for the reporting components were all performed to materiality levels set preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that by, or agreed with, the group audit team.
These materiality levels they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit were set individually for each such component and ranged from of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website 0.5million to 50million.
This report is made solely 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important Act2006 is unmodified explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published In our opinion: on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, 2006: and the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
the information given in the Strategic report and Directors Jimmy Daboo Senior Statutory Auditor report for the financial year for which the financial statements for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which 15 Canada Square we are required to report by exception London Under ISA UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based E14 5GL on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified 12 February 2014 other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the audit committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
