Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 72 independent auditors report to the members of rotork plc only OpiniOns and cOnclusiOns arising frOm Our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements isunmodified We have audited the financial statements of Rotork plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Goodwill 105.2 million Refer to page 53 Audit Committee Report contained within the Corporate Governance Report, page 80 accounting policy and pages 94 to 95 financial statements The risk Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the Cash Generating Units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the combination.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
This is a key judgement area as adverse changes in assumptions, particularly relating to the forecasting of cash flows and discount rates could reduce the recoverable amount below the carrying amount.
The group reviews goodwill for impairment either annually or, if earlier, when there is an indication of impairment.
With the increasing number of acquisitions this is an area of increasing judgement and complexity.
Our response In this area we performed a number of audit procedures which included, but were not limited to, the following.
We challenged the groups judgements in relation to the allocation of goodwill to CGUs and the appropriateness of the methodology for testing for impairment.
We tested the principles and integrity of the discounted cash flow model used.
We challenged the groups assessment of impairment including consideration of the key inputs of the forecast cash flows, the discount rate used, the growth rate assumed and the historical accuracy of budgets.
We used external data to determine an appropriate range for the discount rates for the various CGUs and compared the actual rate used to that range.
For the period covered by the business plan, we considered whether the growth rate used was consistent with both historical performance and future business strategies.
We evaluated the groups sensitivity analysis and also performed our own analysis to assess the sensitivity of the impairment reviews to changes in the key assumptions of discount and growth rates.
Throughout our audit procedures we considered the potential risk of management bias.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of impairment testing of goodwill and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Other intangible assets additions of 24.2 million Refer to page 53 Audit Committee Report contained within the Corporate Governance Report, pages 80, 81 and 83 accounting policies and page 96 financial statements The risk The acquired intangible assets of customer relationships, brand, trademarks and patents, and order book are valued on acquisition using discounted cash flows and relief from royalty methods.
In applying these methodologies, the Group makes a number of key judgements and estimates relating to each class of intangible asset identified, including the discount rate, growth rate and royalty rate.
The identification of intangible assets requires significant levels of judgement and the values assigned to them are sensitive to the assumptions used and, for this reason, acquired intangibles are considered a significant audit risk.
We tested the principles and integrity of the discounted cash flow and relief from royalty models used.
We challenged the groups process for identifying intangible assets and considered the appropriateness of the intangibles identified in relation to the relevant accounting standards.
We challenged the valuation of these including the key assumptions of the discount rate used, the growth rate assumed and the royalty rates applied.
We agreed the discount and royalty rates, along with revenue and customer figures, used to externally derived data and considered whether the growth rate used was consistent with historical performance.
We utilised our own valuation specialists to the extent necessary in performing our work.
We performed analysis to assess the sensitivity of the valuation of the acquired intangibles to changes in the key assumptions of discount and growth rates.
In addition, we assessed the appropriateness and completeness of the disclosure in the financial statements and compliance with relevant accounting standards.
Strategic Report 01-41 73 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 independent auditors report to the members of rotork plc only 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 9.7 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before taxation of which it represents 7%, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial performance of the group.
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 450,000, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
In addition, we agreed with the audit committee to report to it all individual corrected misstatements greater than 1.0 million and, in aggregate, all smaller corrected misstatements between 0.5 million and 1.0 million.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed by component auditors at the key reporting components in the following countries: Australia, China, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Russia, Singapore, Spain, the United Kingdom and the UnitedStates of America: and by the group audit team in the United Kingdom.
In addition, specified audit procedures for group reporting purposes were performed by component auditors at the key reporting components in the following countries: Canada, India and the United States of America.
These group procedures covered 77% of total group revenue, 84% of group profit before taxation and 83% of total group assets.
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the group were all performed to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the group audit team.
These materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from 0.1 million to 7 million.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these locations.
These instructions covered the significant areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the group audit team.
The group audit team visited the following locations: China, Hong Kong, Singapore and the United States of America.
Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors at the majority of the other locations that were not physically visited.
The remaining 23% of revenue, 16% of group profit before taxation and 17% of total group assets is represented by 27reporting components around the world.
None of these 27reporting components represented more than 2% of revenue, profit before taxation or total group assets.
Local statutory audits are performed over 10 of these components, but generally these are completed after the date of this report.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 46 to 55 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 74 independent auditors report to the members of rotork plc only continued 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report byexception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report contained within the Corporate Governance Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 71, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 48 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for ourreview.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibility set out on page 71, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Philip Cotton Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 100 Temple Street Bristol BS1 6AG 3 March 2013
