Management & Governance Independent auditors report to the members of RPS Group Plc Opinion on financial statements of RPS Group plc In our opinion: n the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and the Groups profit for the year then ended: n the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: n the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and n the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 33 for the Consolidated financial statements and 1 to 13 to the Parent Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within the directors report on page [17] that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: n we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and n we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the design and implementation of controls over the focussing on the judgement recognition of revenue through performing walkthrough procedures.
We tested in detail a sample involved in determining of contracts by reviewing the contract terms, the related time records and other assumptions used the extent of revenue to to determine revenue to be recognised for these contracts.
Our testing focused on those contracts recognise on contracts spanning the year end and any contracts which were complex or had unusual terms to check that spanning the year end.
revenue had been recognised accurately in the appropriate period.
Accounting for acquisitions, We reviewed managements papers and workings underlying the business combination accounting in particular the judgements for all six acquisitions in the year.
We challenged key assumptions and judgements underpinning the involved in identifying and valuations, such as the forecast revenues and margins for existing customers, and obtained support measuring the fair value for the calculated fair values.
We also benchmarked the discount rates with external peer group of acquired assets and published rates.
Where necessary we involved our own valuations specialists to assist our approach.
liabilities and measuring In assessing the completeness of assets and liabilities recognised in the business combination, we the consideration, including reviewed details of the legal agreements in place and challenged managements assertions.
We deferred consideration in assessed the treatment of deferred payment arrangements against the requirements of IFRS 3 to accordance with IFRS 3 confirm that they represent consideration rather than remuneration.
continue to have a significant impact on the consolidated balance sheet.
com 27 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Assessment of the carrying We evaluated the adequacy and reasonableness of managements assumptions and the value of goodwill and appropriateness of their judgements and forecasts used as part of their value in use calculations.
intangible assets due to This included a specific review and challenge of discount rates, short and long-term growth rates, the significance of the which we benchmarked against external peer group published rates, making use of our valuation amounts recorded on the experts, as appropriate.
We also considered the appropriateness of the level of aggregation of consolidated balance sheet, individual cash generating units and the methodology applied, as well as reviewing the associated the number of judgements disclosure in note 11. involved in assessing goodwill and intangible assets for impairment and the continued challenging economic conditions.
Recoverability of trade We assessed the adequacy and reasonableness of the assumptions used in managements receivables and accrued calculations and the appropriateness of judgements on, the completeness of the provisions against income due to the material trade receivables and accrued income.
This included a review of the cash received post year end nature of these balances on a sample of customer debts and a review of ageing analysis for trade receivables and accrued and the fact that whilst the income by entity and customer, specifically challenging amounts significantly past-due but not economy is showing signs impaired.
We also performed audit procedures to understand and assess the movement in the of improvement, the Group respective provisioning during the year ended 31 December 2013. remains exposed to the risk that amounts may not be recovered.
We discussed these notes with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the Financial Statements is set out on page 22.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 3 million, which is 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit profit before tax, amortisation of acquired intangibles and transaction-related costs, and below 7% of profit before tax and 1% of equity.
Pre-tax profit is adjusted as this is the key performance measure reviewed by the market.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 60,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at five locations including the UK, USA, Australia, Ireland and the Netherlands.
Within the five locations twenty-one principal business units, including the UK and Group Head Office, were subject to a full audit.
In addition twelve business units were subject to specified audit procedures with the nature of our testing based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups business operations at those locations.
The five locations incorporating the twenty-one principal business units represent the principal business units and account for 92% of the groups net assets, 95% of the groups revenue and 99% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the five locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Senior Statutory Auditor and or another senior member of the group engagement team visit in-scope overseas components on a rotational basis.
Every year, regardless of whether we have visited or not, we include the component audit partner and other senior members of the component audit team in our team briefing, direct the scope of their work for the purposes of our Group audit, discuss their risk assessment and review documentation of the findings from their work.
Report and Accounts 2013 28 Management & Governance Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: n the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and n the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: n we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or n adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or n the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: n materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or n apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or n otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, advisory partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
com 29 Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
John Clennett FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading United Kingdom 27 February 2014 Report and Accounts 2013 30
