Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements of SABMiller Opinion on other matter prescribed by the plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the Companies Act 2006 consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of In our opinion, the information given in the directors report for the comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the financial year for which the consolidated financial statements are consolidated cash ow statement, the consolidated statement of prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
changes in equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law Matters on which we are required to report by exception and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted We have nothing to report in respect of the following: by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors our opinion: As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and not made: or fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the we have not received all the information and explanations we financial statements in accordance with applicable law and require for our audit.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Standards for Auditors.
the directors statement in relation to going concern on page 86: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for and the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of the part of the corporate governance report relating to the Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Corporate Governance Code speci ed for our review: and other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or certain elements of the directors remuneration report.
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the company financial statements Scope of the audit of the financial statements ofSABMiller plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 and on the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and information in the directors remuneration report that is described disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable ashaving been audited.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to thegroups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting for and on behalf of  LLP estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and London nonfinancial information in the SABMiller plc Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
5 June 2013 If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31March 2013 and of its pro t and cash ows for the year thenended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
