Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements, QGHSHQGHQW DXGLWRUV UHSRUW WR WKH PHPEHUV RI 7KH 6DJH URXS SOF Report on the Group financial statements inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based Our opinion on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the In our opinion the Group financial statements: course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications at 30 September 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for our report.
for the year then ended: Overview of our audit approach have been properly prepared in accordance with International Materiality Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine Union: and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for What we have audited the Group financial statements as a whole to be 16m.
In arriving at this judgement we had regard to profit before tax adjusted for The Group financial statements, which are prepared by The Sage non-recurring loss on disposal charges.
Group plc, comprise: the Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 September 2013: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.8m as well as the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting of comprehensive income for the year then ended: for qualitative reasons.
the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and Overview of the scope of our audit The Groups trading operations are made up of operating businesses The Notes to the Group financial statements, which include situated in a number of territories across the globe.
The Group financial a summary of significant accounting policies and other statements are a consolidation of 24 reporting units, comprising the explanatory information.
Groups operating businesses and head office function.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by the European Union.
us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC What an audit of financial statements involves UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Group financial statements as a whole.
This includes an assessment of: Accordingly, of the Groups 24 reporting units, we identified 12 which, whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately either due to their size, or their risk characteristics.
As part of our disclosed: planning procedures, the Group team visited the UK, French and North the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made America teams the three most significant units in the Group in the year by the directors: and ended 30 September 2013.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further one reporting the overall presentation of the financial statements.
unit on request of the Audit Committee.
This, together with additional In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we Annual Report & Accounts the Annual Report to identify material needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
T The Sage Gr he Sage Grou oup plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 p plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 91 91, QGHSHQGHQW DXGLWRUV UHSRUW WR WKH PHPEHUV RI 7KH 6DJH URXS SOF FRQWLQXHG Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 65.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment assessment We tested the directors future cash flow forecasts, including comparing them to the latest Board approved budgets and comparing the current We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill balance, year results with the equivalent figures included in the prior year forecast.
and because the directors assessment of the carrying value of the We challenged the directors key assumptions for discount and long-term Groups cash generating units CGUs involves judgements about growth rates by comparing rates used to available external data.
the future results of the business and the discount rate to apply to We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash the future cash flow forecasts.
flow forecasts, being the discount rates, revenue growth rates and operating margins.
Exceptional items We tested the component parts of the loss on disposal calculation to source documentation including the proceeds received, the net assets Exceptional items relating to the disposal of non-core products disposed of and the costs associated with the disposal, including goodwill were considered to be an area of focus due to the magnitude allocation.
We held detailed discussions with management regarding the of the charge in the income statement.
methodology applied to allocate goodwill to the loss on disposal calculation and tested the supporting calculations, checking compliance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Archer Capital litigation We discussed this issue with internal and external legal counsel in order to understand the latest position of the proceedings and assess the A compensation claim against the Group by a third party for a material directors views as to the strength of the claim against the Group and sum is currently the subject of legal proceedings.
We focused on this their conclusion that no provision is required.
issue as there is uncertainty as to the likely outcome.
Revenue recognition We tested the timing of the recognition of revenue, which included testing the allocation of revenue in sales transactions including both We focused on this area because the timing of revenue recognition software and maintenance and support elements and that the and its presentation in the income statement has inherent complexities.
maintenance and support element was appropriately deferred and These complexities mainly involve accounting for bundled transactions recognised over the contractual period.
where software and maintenance and support elements are purchased together, with a portion of the fee being recognised immediately and the remainder of the revenue deferred and recognised over the Additionally, in response to the presumptive risk of fraud, where revenue contractual period.
was recorded through journal entries we performed testing to establish whether a service had been provided or a sale had occurred in the financial year to support this recognition.
In addition, ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition for every audit conducted under these auditing standards.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this and hence it is an area interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
that receives heightened focus on every audit conducted under these auditing standards.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgments relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested manual journal entries to determine the rationale for manual adjustments.
The Audit Committees consideration of the significant issues in the audit is set out on page 65.
92 92 The Sage Gr The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 oup plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements Going concern Other information in the Annual Report Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our statement set out on page 70 in relation to going concern.
We have opinion, information in the Annual Report is: nothing to report having performed our review.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded financial statements: or that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain performing our audit: or in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one is otherwise misleading.
year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, Our responsibilities and those of the directors these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set continue as a going concern.
out on page 73, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true Opinions on matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 and fair view.
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the Group Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs financial statements.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of information and explanations received This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown this responsibility.
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by Directors remuneration our prior consent in writing.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our Other matter opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law We have reported separately on the parent company financial have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to statements of The Sage Group plc for the year ended 30 September review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 2013 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that directors remuneration.
We have nothing to report having performed is described as having been audited.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have no exceptions to report arising from our review.
On page 73 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Charles Bowman Senior Statutory Auditor Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual for and on behalf of  LLP Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups Newcastle upon Tyne performance, business model and strategy.
On page 65, as required 4 December 2013 by C3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
T The Sage Gr he Sage Grou oup plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 p plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 93 93
