STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION inDepenDent auDitoRs RepoRt to the membeRs of senioR plc opinion on financial statements of senioR plc going conceRn In our opinion: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 26 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: of accounting in the preparation of the Financial Statements is appropriate: and the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast IFRS asadopted by the European Union: significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies as a going concern.
Act 2006: and ouR assessment of Risks of mateRial misstatement the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: The Financial Statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, and the related notes 1 to 38.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent Company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Risk how the scope of ouR auDit ResponDeD to the Risk gooDwill impaiRment We challenged managements assumptions used in the impairment As outlined in the Audit Committee Report on page 38, management model for goodwill, described in note 13 to the Financial Statements, recorded a 12.7m impairment charge against Capo Industries goodwill including, but not limited to: following under plan performance.
the cash flow projections, by considering the consistency of the The carrying value of goodwill, a material balance for the Group, relies forecasts with industry trends, historical budgeting accuracy and on assumptions and judgements made by management which requires comparing the estimated margins to other operating companies estimates concerning the estimated future cash flows, associated of a similar nature: discount rates, and growth rates based on managements view of discount rates, by engaging our internal valuation specialists future business prospects.
to review assumptions made against external market data: perpetuity rates, by benchmarking against industry and GDP growth rates: sensitivities adopted: and the impact of restructuring the Capo Industries business.
waRRanty anD employee-RelateD pRovisions We evaluated and tested the key judgements made by management, The Group holds provisions in respect of warranty claims and workers including reviewing underlying data behind failure rates, average cost compensation claims.
of repairs and comparing to the assumptions used to calculate the Groups estimate.
These require significant management judgements around failure rates and estimated cost of repairs for warranty claims: the workers In addition, we used our internal actuarial experts to assess the compensation provision also uses actuarial development factors to assumptions used in calculating the development factors for the determine the quantum of claims which are likely to arise in respect workers compensation provision.
This involved creating an of past services but are not yet known to the Company.
independent estimate of the provision and evaluating the valuation methodology applied.
tax pRovisions anD DefeRReD tax Recognition We assessed the tax position in conjunction with our internal tax As the Group operates in a number of different tax jurisdictions, experts in the local jurisdictions who have knowledge of local tax laws.
judgement is required over the levels of tax provisions held at year-end This included a review of prior year open computations, assumptions principally in the US and UK which are the Groups most significant made and related correspondence with the tax authorities.
We evaluated managements judgements in respect of deferred tax assets by considering future forecasts of profitability, past results, In addition to this, deferred tax asset recognition depends on the future length of forecast period and risk factors applied and used these to profitability of the Company and therefore requires judgement over the assess the probability that sufficient future taxable profits will arise.
level of the asset that can be recognised.
com Senior plc | AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 57 inDepenDent auDitoRs RepoRt to the membeRs of senioR plc continued Risk how the scope of ouR auDit ResponDeD to the Risk inventoRy levels anD pRovisions We attended inventory counts at all significant locations, and performed Inventory, a material balance for the Group, requires a significant level detailed substantive testing on a sample of items to assess the cost of management judgement in determining an appropriate costing basis basis and realisable value of inventory.
and assessing if this is lower than the net realisable value of the We compared the inventory provision to the Groups policy see note 2, inventory on hand at year end.
and challenged managements judgement of the adequacy of this policy There are also judgements required in determining inventory provisions by performing a review of the level of provisions on an aggregate and by as these are based on forecast inventory usage and assessing if the unit basis as well as understanding the levels of demand for significant provision level is adequate to cover any obsolescence.
We investigated manual adjustment made to the mechanical application of the inventory provisioning policy, and assessed whether they were valid and the appropriateness of the final provision.
acquisition accounting We evaluated and tested the acquisition accounting, including using As outlined in the Audit Committee Report on page 38, Group internal valuation experts in the consideration of the recognition and management exercised judgement in determining their provisional valuation of intangible assets and goodwill.
our audit procedures valuation of the intangible assets and goodwill associated with the included, but were not limited to: agreeing the cash flow projections to Thermal Engineering Holding Limited acquisition.
These judgements supporting audit evidence on a sample basis: assessing the could have a material impact on the financial statements and as such, appropriateness of the valuation methodology and discount rate applied: this is a key audit risk.
and performing substantive testing on a sample of the underlying assets and liabilities of the business.
The Audit Committees consideration of certain of these risks is set out We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the on page 38.
Committee all audit differences in excess of 140,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and not to disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
our opinion presentation of the Financial Statements.
on the Financial Statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these an oveRview of the scope of ouR auDit individual matters.
our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the ouR application of mateRiality risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a work at 25 key operating locations.
18 of these were subject to full reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
scope audit procedures, of which seven were performed through We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and acombination of work completed by the local component auditors in evaluating the results of our work.
and work completed by the Group team.
The other seven key We determined materiality for the Group to be 7.0m, which is operating locations were subject to specified audit procedures approximately 7.5% of pre-tax profit, adjusted to exclude the impact oncertain balances.
of the impairment charge for Capo Industries and the release of the Together with the Group Functions, which were also subject to GAMFG Precision LLC deferred consideration.
These items have been full scope audit procedures, the 25 locations represent the principal excluded in our determination of materiality as they are exceptional business units within the Groups two reportable segments and account and non-recurring.
for 94% of the Groups net assets, 90% of the Groups revenue and auDit coveRage by site as a auDit coveRage by site as a auDit coveRage by site as a pRopoRtion of 2013 Revenue pRopoRtion of 2013 net assets pRopoRtion of 2013 pRofit befoRe tax Full scope audit procedures 75% Full scope audit procedures 79% Full scope audit procedures 80% Specified audit procedures 15% Specified audit procedures 15% Specified audit procedures 12% Reviewed at Group level 10% Reviewed at Group level 6% Reviewed at Group level 8% 58 Senior plc | AnnUAL REPoRT & ACCoUnTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 92% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of ofmaterial misstatement identified above.
our audit work at the performing our audit: or 25locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each otherwise misleading.
individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated balanced and understandable and whether the annual report financial information of the remaining components not subject to full appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the scope audit procedures or specified audit procedures.
audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit misleading statements.
team visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every three years.
In years when we do not visit a Respective Responsibilities of DiRectoRs anD auDitoR significant component we will include the component audit team in our As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial of the findings from their work.
Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial opinion on otheR matteRs pRescRibeD by the Statements in accordance with applicable law and International companies act 2006 Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us In our opinion: to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited 1 UK and Ireland.
our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that hasbeen properly prepared in accordance with the Companies our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Act2006:and our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are and independent partner reviews.
prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. matteRs on which we aRe RequiReD to RepoRt by exception ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the aDequacy of explanations ReceiveD anD accounting RecoRDs Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, inan auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent inour opinion: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone we have not received all the information and explanations we require other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for for our audit: or ouraudit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent scope of the auDit of the financial statements Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures from branches not visited by us: or in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether the accounting records and returns.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and DiRectoRs RemuneRation adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonmade or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited financial information in the Annual Report to identify material isnot in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify nothing to report arising from these matters.
anyinformation that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the coRpoRate goveRnance statement courseof performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance for our report.
with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
gRegoRy culshaw aca senioR statutoRy auDitoR foR anD on behalf of Deloitte llp ouR Duty to ReaD otheR infoRmation in the annual RepoRt Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are Southampton, United Kingdom required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual 28 February 2014 Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or www.
com Senior plc | AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 59
