Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Serco Group plc Opinion on financial statements of Serco Group plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013, and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statements of changes in equity, and the related notes 1 to 55.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and the Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors assessment included in the Finance Review section of the Strategic Report that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
109 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Serco Group plc Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of the audit responded to the risk We carried out tests relating to controls over revenue recognition, Revenue and profit recognition including the timing of, and the right to, recognise revenue.
We also There are significant accounting judgements in applying the reviewed forecast costs to complete and profit recognition policies Groups revenue recognition policies to the contracts entered on those contracts where the requirement is to recognise revenue into by the Group.
on a percentage of completion basis.
Revenue and profit recognition on contracts requires judgement We reviewed specific contract forecasts and historical operational over complex areas including assessment of stage of completion: costs to validate managements assessment of whether contracts are consideration of onerous contract terms: recognition of pre-contract deemed to be onerous and reviewed provisions for anticipated losses.
costs: and billing and cash flow arrangements.
The Groups policy on revenue recognition is set out in note 2 to the Group We also considered the results of the external forensic investigations financial statements.
in scoping the focus of our testing and work.
During the year 75% of the UK Central Government contracts were subject to an external review into operational and billing arrangements.
We reviewed the nature of exceptional items, challenged Disclosure of items as exceptional managements judgements in this area and agreed the quantification The Group has recorded exceptional income and expenditure in to supporting documentation.
respect of one-off items and transactions that fall outside of the normal course of trading.
In particular, the Group settled a material In particular, we discussed with the Directors and the Audit Committee, contractual dispute with the Cabinet Office in the year and disposed the costs related to the Cabinet Office contractual dispute, and verified of certain non-core businesses as disclosed in note 11 to the costs to appropriate audit evidence.
On the Clinical Health onerous contracts and on the impairment of Exceptional items are not defined by IFRSs as adopted by the assets, we reviewed and challenged managements forecasts and European Union.
Therefore judgement is required by the Directors underlying assumptions in determining the level of exceptional costs to identify such items as exceptional and to maintain comparability recorded.
of the results with previous years.
In respect of the sales of businesses in the year, we also tested the component parts of the profit on disposal calculation to source documentation including the proceeds received, the net assets disposed of and the costs associated with the disposal, including goodwill allocation to the disposed entities.
Goodwill and intangible assets We evaluated managements assumptions within the cash flow The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible forecasts used in the value in use calculations for each Cash assets is a judgemental process which includes assumptions around Generating Unit CGU and other intangible assets as described future revenue growth and cash performance, together with the in note 20 to the financial statements.
These include CGU cash flow applicable discount rate.
projections, growth rates and pipeline levels at each CGU.
There are inherent uncertainties in forecast cash flow modelling which We have challenged the discount rate applied to the separate CGUs require the exercise of management judgement.
by utilising valuation experts, the prevailing Group cost of capital at the year end and our understanding of the future prospects of the Goodwill and intangible assets are material balances in the Group Group.
We have considered the level of risk adjustment applied to financial statements and the Group operates in various global markets each of the CGUs.
which are susceptible to economic change.
Group managements key judgements are disclosed in note 20 to the financial statements.
We have assessed managements sensitivities applied to the model.
We have considered whether the Groups disclosure appropriately reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill assessed.
We evaluated the appropriateness of the principal actuarial Pension commitments assumptions used in the calculation of the Groups pension The actuarial assumptions used in the measurement of the Groups commitments, using our own actuarial experts, and by making pension commitments involve management judgement in relation enquiries of the Groups external actuary as to the key assumptions to mortality, price inflation, discount rates, and rate of pension and made, and comparing these to our knowledge of market practice.
As part of our work we evaluated the recoverability of pension surplus Judgement is also exercised in determining whether a pension surplus amounts and of contract specific pension commitments recorded should be recognised, and the extent of the Groups pension liability franchise adjustments notes 21 and 34. in respect of franchise and other contractual agreements.
110 Financial statements The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 77.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 12.5 million, which is below 6.5% of normalised pre-tax profit.
Pre-tax profit has been normalised by adding back net exceptional costs of 90.5 million incurred in the year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 200,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at four operating divisions: UK & Europe, Global Services, Americas and AMEAA.
Each of these was subject to a full audit.
In the case of significant joint ventures, the Group audit team issue audit referral instructions to the auditors of these entities.
In addition, certain central reporting entities and Group functions including those covering treasury, taxation and pensions and the parent company were subject to an audit.
Our audit work at each division was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team follows a programme of planned visits to the operating locations of the Group that is designed to ensure the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the group audit team visits the principal locations at least once a year and remaining locations as part of our rotation strategy.
For 2013 year end audit purposes the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the group audit team visited Washington DC, Dubai, Mumbai and Delhi.
The Group audit team also holds detailed meetings with audit teams in the other locations.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
111 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report To the members of Serco Group plc Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Richard Knights Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 3 March 2014 112
