128 Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 which In our opinion: comprise the company balance sheet, the company statement F the part of the Directors remuneration report to be of total recognised gains and losses, and the related notes 1 to auditedhas been properly prepared in accordance with the 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied CompaniesAct 2006: and intheir preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom F the information given in the Directors report for the financial Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted year for which the financial statements are prepared is Accounting Practice.
consistent with the parent company financial statements.
This report is made solely to the companys members, Matters on which we are required to report by exception asabody, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters CompaniesAct 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, that we might state to the companys members those matters inour opinion: we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do F adequate accounting records have not been kept by the not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not company and the companys members as a body, for our been received from branches not visited by us: or auditwork, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
F the parent company financial statements and the part oftheDirectors remuneration report to be audited are not Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor inagreement with the accounting records and returns: or As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility F certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation bylaware not made: or ofthe parent company financial statements and for being F we have not received all the information and explanations satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility werequire for our audit.
isto audit and express an opinion on the parent company Other matter financial statements in accordance with applicable law andInternational Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We have reported separately on the group financial statements Thosestandards require us to comply with the Auditing of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Carl D Hughes Senior statutory auditor disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
London, UK This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies 29 May 2013 are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: thereasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: F give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2013: F have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and F have been prepared in accordance with the requirements ofthe Companies Act 2006.
