Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77 Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc We have audited the group financial statements of Severn Trent Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of the financial year for which the group financial statements are comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
in equity, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash Matters on which we are required to report by exception ow statement, and the related notes 1 to 42.
The financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following: reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
youif, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the companys members, F certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by asabody, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the laware not made: or CompaniesAct 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so F we have not received all the information and explanations that we might state to the companys members those matters werequire for our audit.
we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do F the directors statement, contained within the not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Directorsreport, in relation to going concern: company and the companys members as a body, for our audit F the part of the Chairmans letter relating to the companys work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
compliance with the nine provisions of UK Corporate Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Governance Code specified for our review: and As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility F certain elements of the report to shareholders by the statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation boardon directors remuneration.
ofthe group financial statements and for being satisfied that Other matters theygive a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit We have reported separately on the parent company financial andexpress an opinion on the group financial statements in statements of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March accordance with applicable law and International Standards 2013 and on the information in the Remuneration Committee onAuditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to report that is described as having been audited.
comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards forAuditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Carl D Hughes Senior statutory auditor An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
London, UK This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 29 May 2013 policiesare appropriate to the groups circumstances and havebeen consistently applied and adequately disclosed: thereasonableness of significant accounting estimates madeby the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial andnon-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
Ifwebecome aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: F give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: F have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and F have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
