Strategic report Go Gov ver erna nan nc ce e F Fin ina an nci cial al s st ta at te em men ent ts s Other information Independent auditors report Opinion on financial statements of Shire plc In our opinion the consolidated financial statements of Shire plc and subsidiaries together the Group : Present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of December 31, 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2013, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The financial statements comprise consolidated balance sheet, the related consolidated statements of income, equity and comprehensive income and cash flows and the related notes 1 to 31.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied intheirpreparation is applicable law and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 93 that the company is a going concern.
Weconfirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements isappropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, theallocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The acquisition of SARcode BioSciences Inc The Directors determination of the purchase price allocation for the acquisition of SARcode is included SARcode at note 4.
The risk that the acquisition accounting, including the We have challenged the key assumptions made by the Directors in determining the fair value of the valuation of acquired intangible assets and contingent consideration and the allocation of the purchase price including: consideration, in respect of the Groups acquisition of The level of post-launch cash flows and potential market size SARcode is not performed correctly.
The probability that certain key milestones such as the outcome of pharmaceutical trials will be achieved Valuation assumptions such as the discount rate and tax rate In doing so we have utilised experts in the areas of valuations and taxation and have considered the judgments in light of external data such as analyst expectations, market size and comparator companies as well as considering the appropriateness of the process and controls adopted by management in determining the acquisition accounting.
Carrying value of In Process Research and We have considered managements impairment analysis, understood and challenged the key Development Intangible Assets judgments and sensitivities and the impact that each of these have in determining whether an There is a risk that in their formal annual and ongoing impairment exists.
assessment of the carrying value of Intangible Assets, In particular we focussed on the carrying value of In-Process Research and Development intangible the Directors make inappropriate judgments in their assets and in doing so challenged Managements assessment of the probability of success of impairment analysis.
ongoing clinical trials and the launch of new products in the market.
In doing so we have consulted with our own experts in valuations and have considered the judgments in light of external data.
Rebates and sales deductions We have considered the Groups process for making judgments in this area, performed an analysis The Directors are required to make judgments in of the historical accuracy of judgments and have understood and challenged the key elements of respect of the level of rebates and other sales judgments made in the period in light of externally verifiable data and industry practice.
deductions that will be realised against the Groups sales.
There is a risk that these judgments are not appropriate and as a result rebate liabilities and sales deductions are recorded at an incorrect level.
Impact of Complex Group structure on tax We have considered the professional advice obtained by management, reviewed correspondence with provisioning taxation authorities in key jurisdictions and have utilised taxation experts to both consider and As the Group transacts globally within a complex group challenge the level of provision for individual potential tax exposures.
structure, significant judgment is required in determining the level of tax provisions.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 95 Independent auditors report continued The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 60.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope ofour audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the company to be $60 million, which is below 5% of normalised pre-tax profit, and below 2% of equity.
Pre-tax profit has been normalised by removing the impact of one off items such as impairments of goodwill and intangible assets and the derecognition of the groups contingent consideration liability in respect of SARcode.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $3 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee ondisclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing therisks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Our Group audit scope focused on three operating locations subject to a full scope audit for the year ended December 31, 2013, including: The US operations of the Group excluding Regenerative Medicine based in Lexington MA, US and Chesterbrook PA, US UK & Ireland operations of the Group based in Basingstoke, UK and Dublin, Ireland Shire Deutschland based in Berlin, Germany Together with the Group Functions, which were also subject to a full scope audit for the year ended December 31, 2013, these locations represent the principal business units of the Group and account for 94% of the Groups total assets and 82% of the Groups revenue.
Audits of these locations are performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned.
The audit procedures in respect of remaining operating locations included discussions with local management, analytical reviews, andthe consideration of findings from Internal Audit reviews.
In addition, audits are expected to be performed for local statutory purposes at a further 26 locations, which represent a further 11% ofthe Groups revenue.
Audits of these locations are performed at a local materiality level calculated by reference to the scale of the business concerned.
The Group audit team follows a programme of planned site visits that is designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each of the full scope locations during the year.
In addition to this the group audit team will visit other locations not infullscope on a rotational basis over a three year period.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: The Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 that would have been applied were the Group incorporated in the United Kingdom: the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 that would have been applied were the Group incorporated in the United Kingdom.
96 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Go Gov ver erna nan nc ce e F Fin ina an nci cial al s st ta at te em men ent ts s Other information Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
James Bates For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditors London, United Kingdom February 24, 2014 WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 97 We aim to deliver significantly above average industry growth levels.
Take for example FIRAZYR, our leading acute treatment for the rare genetic disease Hereditary Angiodema HAE.
With only around half of sufferers in the US currently treated, FIRAZYR has great potential for future growth.
102% FIRAZYR growth year-on-year FIRAZYR A leader with great growth potential Patients Product Progress Potential Estimated 7,000-8,000 Portable, on-demand, FIRAZYR has the Potential for significant US HAE sufferers subcutaneous leading market share growth in the future Only around half of self-administered in US of HAE attacks with only 50% of the sufferers currently presentation treated acutely market treated treated Average patient on Over 1,600 patients FIRAZYR is treating in US have received 12-18 acute attacks FIRAZYR commercial peryear therapy to date Based on Shires market research 98 98 S SH HI IR RE P E PL LC C A AN NN NU UA AL L RE REP POR ORT T 2 20 01 13 3 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
