Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SIG PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF SIG PLC In our opinion: X the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: X the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: X the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and X the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Statements of Significant Accounting Policies, the Critical Accounting Judgments and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty and the related consolidated Notes 1 to 32 and the related Company Notes 1 to 14.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
GOING CONCERN As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors Statement contained within the Strategic Review on page 37 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: X we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and X we have not identified any material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets The judgments made by management in relation to the financial performance We assessed managements assumptions described in Note 13 to the financial of the business units, discount rates and perpetuity growth rates are subjective.
statements used in the impairment model for goodwill and intangible assets, As reported previously, reasonably possible downside scenarios would give including specifically the cash flow projections, discount rates and perpetuity rise to an impairment of Larivire and so this is an important judgment rates used.
We have compared these to industry forecasts, the Groups historical and sensitivity.
performance, budgeting accuracy, benchmarking against comparator groups and our understanding of the future prospects of the business.
Particular focus has been given to Larivire.
The recognition and measurement of supplier rebate income Rebate income earned by the Group is significant and affects the recorded We carried out testing of the design and implementation of key controls related value of both cost of sales and inventory.
In some cases, rebate calculations to the recognition of supplier rebate income.
We circularised suppliers to confirm are complex and judgmental especially where they are linked to volume or a sample of amounts receivable including high value balances and checked income other thresholds and are in respect of non-coterminous trading periods.
earned by supplier against historical rates achieved and purchasing records.
We assessed whether the income recognition policies and estimates were appropriate particularly when there were non-coterminous trading periods.
The recognition and presentation of other items in the Consolidated Income Statement The Group has consistently used a three column approach for the presentation We assessed the nature of the income costs included in other items and checked of the Consolidated Income Statement to separately identify certain income that they met the Groups definition for separate presentation, set out in the costs which are non-underlying in nature.
This included certain costs relating to a Statement of Significant Accounting Policies on page 89.
Where income costs significant restructuring programme.
The inappropriate inclusion of income costs have been presented as other items, we obtained evidence that enabled us to within Other items could distort the underlying profit disclosed.
assess whether this presentation is appropriate.
We performed detailed substantive testing for a sample of the costs income and checked to supporting documentation.
The recognition and measurement of provisions for trade receivables and inventories Trade receivables and inventories represent 80% of the Groups current We considered the appropriateness of managements assumptions and assets and therefore the judgments regarding aged or impaired receivables estimates in relation to the provisions for trade receivables and inventories.
and slow moving obsolete inventory provisions are significant.
In assessing completeness and accuracy we have considered evidence of customer disputes, tested the ageing of the ledgers, checked against subsequent cash receipts or post year end historical sales reports.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 61.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 123 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF SIG PLC OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
In line with generally accepted practice, we determined planning materiality for the Group at 6m, which is below 7% of underlying pre-tax profit as defined on page 83 and below 1% of equity.
We use underlying pre-tax profit to exclude the effect of volatility from our determination and because it represents one of the primary KPIs referred to both internally and externally.
The audit of Other items is treated as a significant risk as set out above.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 120,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT The Group audit and audit of the consolidation is performed at the Groups head office in Sheffield.
The accounting records of the trading businesses within the Group are spread across the countries in which the Group operates.
We perform audit work in each of the eight principal countries of operation.
Full scope audits were performed for the principal business units covering in excess of 90% of the Groups total assets, revenue and operating profit.
A further 6% of the Groups total assets, revenue and operating profit were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our full scope audits and the specified audit procedures were executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every two years and the most significant of them at least once a year including attendance at the close meetings.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: X the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and X the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ADEQUACY OF EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED AND ACCOUNTING RECORDS Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: X we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or X adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or X the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
OUR DUTY TO READ OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: X materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or X apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or X otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
SIG plc 124 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
SIMON MANNING SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Leeds, UK 12 March 2014 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 125
