Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 92 FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS Independent auditors UK report Independent auditors report to the members of Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect Smith & Nephew plc on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: We have audited the group financial statements of Smith & Nephew and directing the efforts of the engagement team: plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Group income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, Recognition and measurement of provisions for legal disputes the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the Group Recognition and measurement of provisions for taxation statement of changes in equity and the related Notes 1 to 23.
The Existence and valuation of inventory financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Timing of revenue recognition and measurement of related preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting reserves.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Our application of materiality in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We determined planning materiality for the Group to be $45million, Companys members those matters we are required to state to them which was approximately 5% of forecast pre-tax profit.
This in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent provided a basis for identifying and assessing the risk of material permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as further audit procedures.
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment have formed.
of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor an individual account or balance for the Group should be 75% of planning materiality, namely $33.75million.
Our objective in adopting As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement this approach was to reduce to an appropriately low level the set out on pages 88 and 89, the Directors are responsible for the probability that the aggregate of total undetected and uncorrected preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied misstatements for the accounts as a whole did not exceed our that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and planning materiality.
express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Committee all audit differences in excess of $2.25million, as well Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
as differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and An overview of the scope of our audit disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to assurance that the financial statements are free from material the Group financial statements, we selected 11 components which misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an represent the principal business units within the Groups two assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to reportable segments and account for 70% of the Groups total the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and assets, 65% Group revenue and 81% of the Groups profit before tax.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Two of these components were subject to a full audit, whilst the estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the remaining nine were subject to a partial audit where the extent of financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonaudit work was based on our assessment of the risks of material financial information in the Annual Report to identify material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups business inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify operations at those locations.
They were also selected to provide any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the risks of material misstatement identified above.
For the remaining course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent components, we performed other procedures to test or assess that material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the there were no significant risks of material misstatement in these implications for our report.
components in relation to the Group financial statements.
The audit work at the 11 components was executed at levels of Opinion on financial statements materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower In our opinion the Group financial statements: than Group materiality.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned 31 December 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Auditor or his designate visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every two years and the most by the European Union: and significant of them at least once a year.
For all full scope entities, in have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the addition to the location visit, the Group audit team reviewed key Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
working papers, participated in the component teams planning including the component teams discussion of fraud and error.
The Group audit team visited 9 locations in total over the course of the current year audit.
This page does not form part of Smith & Nephews Annual Report and Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Group StrAteGiC report CorporAte GoverNANCe FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS AND other iNFormAtioN Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS 93 Our response to the risks identified above was as follows: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Recognition and measurement of provisions for legal disputes We obtained legal advice that the Company had received, read certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are legal invoices and corresponded directly with external legal not made: or advisers to assess the appropriateness of the provisions: we have not received all the information and explanations we Recognition and measurement of provisions for taxation We require for our audit.
tested tax calculations and challenged the Companys transfer Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: pricing arrangements, tax planning activities and ongoing tax the Directors statement, set out on page 89, in relation to going audits to assess the reasonableness of the provisions: concern: and Existence and valuation of inventory We carried out tests of the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the controls over inventory processes, independently counted Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK inventory levels at a sample of locations, challenged the Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and Companys plans for launching new product lines and discontinuing existing product lines and tested the detailed certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board calculations for excess and obsolete inventory to assess the on Directors remuneration.
inventory balance: Timing of revenue recognition and measurement of related Other matter reserves We carried out tests of controls over revenue We have reported separately on the parent company financial recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition, as well as statements of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December substantive testing, analytical procedures and assessing whether 2013 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report the revenue recognition policies adopted complied with IFRS: that is described as having been audited.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs the Companies Act 2006 As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group, In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with IFRS as financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as Matters on which we are required to report by at 31 December 2013, and of its profit for the year then ended.
exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Les Clifford Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial London statements: or 26 February 2014 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
