Group StrAteGiC report CorporAte GoverNANCe FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS AND other iNFormAtioN Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS 91 Independent auditors US reports Report of Independent Registered Public Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Smith & Nephew plc and Shareholders of Smith & Nephew plc We have audited the accompanying Group balance sheets of Smith We have audited Smith & Nephew plcs internal control over financial & Nephew plc as of 31 December 2013 and 2012, and the related reporting as of 31 December 2013, based on criteria established in Group income statements, Group statements of comprehensive Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of income, Group cash flow statements and Group statements of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission 1992 changes in equity for each of the three years in the period ended framework, the COSO criteria.
Smith & Nephew plcs management 31 December 2013.
These financial statements are the responsibility is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
Evaluation of Internal Control Procedures.
Our responsibility is to We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the express an opinion on the companys internal control over financial Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those reporting based on our audit.
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over accounting principles used and significant estimates made by financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal for our opinion.
control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Smith & Nephew plc at 31 December 2013 and 2012, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process the three years in the period ended 31 December 2013, in conformity designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Smith & Nephew plcs internal control over financial reporting as of company: 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are 31 December 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and Organisations of the Treadway Commission 1992 framework that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only and our report dated 26 February 2014 expressed an unqualified in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of opinion thereon.
the company: and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial Ernst & Young LLP reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections London, England of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the 26 February 2014 risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, Smith & Nephew plc maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2013, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the Group balance sheets of Smith & Nephew plc as of 31 December 2013 and 2012, and the related Group income statements, Group statements of comprehensive income, Group cash flow statements and Group statements of changes in equity for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2013 of Smith & Nephew plc and our report dated 26 February 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Ernst & Young LLP London, England 26 February 2014
