St rategic Report Go vernance Financi al Statements Additional Information Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SOCO International plc Opinion on financial statements of How the scope of our audit responded to the risk SOCO International plc We evaluated managements assessment of whether there were any indicators of impairment for any of the Groups material E&E assets, taking In our opinion: into consideration the impairment indicators outlined in IFRS 6 Exploration the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources such as: Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: expiry or relinquishment of exploration or evaluation licences: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in no expenditure for further exploration and evaluation in the specific accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as area is planned or budgeted for: adopted by the European Union: whether exploration and evaluation activities have not led to the the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared discovery of commercially viable quantities of mineral resources: or in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: whether data exists to suggest that the carrying amount of the and exploration and evaluation asset is unlikely to be recovered in full from successful development or by sale.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group These procedures included interviews with key operational and finance financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
staff in London, checking whether all capitalised assets are included in future budgets and plans, and identifying any elds where the Groups The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income right to explore is either at, or close to, expiry.
We corroborated material Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, facts where evidence existed, for example by agreement to approved the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Company internal or operator budgets and work programmes, or contractual Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group and Company Cash Flow agreements such as rig contracts.
In the current year, particular focus was Statements and the related Notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting given to the Groups interest in the Nganzi licence, given the relinquishment framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable of the licence in late 2013. law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with Details of the Groups policy on exploration and evaluation assets is given the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. in Note 2 and details of impairments to exploration and evaluation assets recorded by the Group in year are given in Note 15.
Going concern Oil and gas reserves estimates As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement This was considered to be a key risk due to the subjective nature of on page 26 that the Group is a going concern.
We con rm that: reserves estimates and their impact on the financial statements through impairment and depreciation, depletion and amortisation DD&A we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis calculations, and because the TGT eld, which contributes the substantial of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is majority of SOCOs estimated reserves and DD&A, is particularly complex appropriate: and and in a relatively early stage of production and overall development.
we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast Management has engaged third party experts in connection with the significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
estimation of reserves and has engaged another consultant to develop a simulation model of the TGT eld, however, this work is ongoing and no However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this third party reserve estimate is yet available.
As discussed on statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a page 21 the third party has provided a range of preliminary estimates of oil going concern.
and gas initially in place and recovery factors, for which the recovery factors are generally lower than managements estimates.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those We compared the oil and gas reserves gures used in the DD&A that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of calculation to the range of estimates produced by the third party, and resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: interviewed the experts from the third party to evaluate their assumptions and findings as well as to con rm their quali cations, objectivity and Impairment of intangible exploration and evaluation E&E assets independence.
We evaluated managements assertion that there remains In accordance with relevant accounting standards, E&E costs are a high level of uncertainty around any estimate of reserves at this stage.
assessed for impairment at least annually.
This is considered a key risk due to the signi cant judgments and estimates that are required to be We evaluated a sensitivity analysis which assessed whether the effect assessed, and the highly material nature of the related balances in the of aligning managements calculation of DD&A with the third partys financial statements.
SOCO International plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SOCO International plc continued estimates would result in a material increase in the DD&A charge for on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee the year.
We also evaluated managements assessment that there on disclosure matters that we identi ed when assessing the overall were no indicators of impairment based on discounted cash ow presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Managements reserves estimates are included on page 100 to the annual report.
In addition, management has explained the scope of work of the Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group third party and their findings on page 21 in the review of operations, as and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the well as highlighting oil and gas reserves as a key source of estimation risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that uncertainty in Note 4 to the financial statements.
We assessed whether assessment, we focused primarily on the Groups two key business units, these disclosures fairly describe the differences between managements being Vietnam which is accounted for in Vietnam and in London and estimates and the third partys estimates, and the impact of the Africa which is accounted for in Africa and London, together with the estimation uncertainty.
head of ce function in London.
These locations account for all of the Groups net assets, revenue and pro t before tax.
All of these locations Accounting for depletion, depreciation and amortisation of were subject to a full scope audit.
producing oil and gas assets This is considered a key risk due to the calculation including judgmental The Group audit team assesses each year how best to be appropriately estimates of the remaining commercial oil & gas reserves and the involved in the audit work undertaken in Vietnam.
In the current year, in estimation of future capital works and related expenditure required to addition to regular interaction and review through correspondence, extract those reserves.
telephone and other electronic media, the Senior Statutory Auditor visited the Vietnam component during the audit planning phase.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk As well as the work performed on the reserves quantities included in Opinion on other matters prescribed the DD&A calculation, as above, we also compared the estimates of by the Companies Act 2006 future capital expenditure to plans and budgets.
We checked that the development scenarios from which capital expenditure estimates were In our opinion: derived are consistent with the scenario on which reserves estimates the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been are based.
We re-performed the DD&A calculation to check for properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and mechanical accuracy.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report The Audit and Risk Committees consideration of these risks is set out on for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is page 56. consistent with the financial statements.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the Matters on which we are required to context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to report by exception express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modi ed with respect to any of the risks Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records described above, and we do not express an opinion on these Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our individual matters.
opinion: Our application of materiality we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or We fide ne materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or in uenced.
We Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in from branches not visited by us: or evaluating the results of our work.
the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with When setting materiality, among other factors we considered the Groups the accounting records and returns.
pre-tax pro t in the current period as well as that in recent periods: the occurrence of any non-recurring gains and losses such as exploration We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
write offs which might need to be taken into account in setting materiality, and the level of consolidated shareholders equity.
We determined Directors remuneration materiality for the Group to be $27,000,000, which is below 6.5% of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our adjusted pre-tax pro t and 3% of equity.
opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Committee all audit differences in excess of $595,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting SOCO International plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 St rategic Report Go vernance Financi al Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance Statement Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the nothing to report arising from our review.
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by is: the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements: or statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the our audit: or implications for our report.
Bevan Whitehead ACA Senior statutory auditor otherwise misleading.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identi ed any Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the London, United Kingdom Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced 4 March 2014 and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We con rm that we have not identi ed any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
SOCO International plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
