Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report To the members of Spectris plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Working capital provisions: Refer to page 49 Audit and Risk Committee Report, pages 84 1.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified and 85 accounting policy and page 111 financial disclosures.
We have audited the Financial Statements of Spectris plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income The risk: The Group has significant inventory and trade receivable Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, balances and management has to apply judgement to assess the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated the level of provisions required to write down slow-moving and Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Cash obsolete inventory items to their net realisable value and to write Flows, the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
down the value of trade receivables to their recoverable amounts.
Inour opinion: In respect of inventory provisions each company in the Group is required to apply a methodology to calculate an inventory the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state provision that management feels is appropriate to the specific of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 business.
The Groups credit risk policy requires a full provision December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then to made against all trade receivables that are over 120 days past ended: due.
The level of judgement involved in determining whether the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in a provision should be recognised and then in determining the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as methodology to be used in calculating the best estimate of adopted by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU : the recoverable amount, coupled with the fact that provision the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly movements impact earnings, results in working capital provisions prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: being one of the key judgemental areas that our audit is the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with concentrated on.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
among others, considering the appropriateness of the provisions recorded against trade receivable balances and the 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement appropriateness of the Groups credit risk policy to fully provide In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Group Financial against all trade receivables past due by more than 120days, with Statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest reference to the ageing of customer balances, past history of effect on our Group audit were as follows: recovery, cash received post the year end, economic conditions and the concentration of counter-party risk.
In respect of Goodwill and other intangibles: inventory provisions we considered the appropriateness of the Refer to page 49 Audit and Risk Committee Report, page 83 methodology used to calculate the provisions in the context of accounting policy and page 103 financial disclosures.
our understanding of the individual businesses in the Group with reference to the ageing and nature of inventory, past The risk: The Groups cash-generating units operate across usage, forecast future usage, observing physical inventory a wide range of markets, products and geographies.
The counts, economic conditions and assessing the impact of assessment of the recoverability of the goodwill attributable to new product launches and technology.
We compared the these cash-generating units is reliant on the future performance methodology and assumptions used by the Group in calculating of the Group across these areas.
Due to the inherent uncertainty the inventory provision to those used in prior years: as part of involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which this we considered whether we would expect a change to the are the basis of the assessment of recoverability, this is one of the methodology and assumptions used, and also considered the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
historical accuracy of provisions made by the Group by examining Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, the reversal of previously recorded provisions.
We also considered among others, using our own valuation specialists to the extent the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of working necessary to assist us in evaluating the key assumptions and capital provisions.
methodologies used by the Group, in particular those related to more recent acquisitions.
We compared the Groups assumptions Tax provisions: to externally derived data as well as our own assessments in Refer to page 50 Audit and Risk Committee Report, page 85 relation to key inputs such as projected economic growth, accounting policy and page 100 financial disclosures.
margins, profit to cash conversion, cost inflation, foreign exchange and discount rates and applied sensitivities to the The risk: Accruals for tax contingencies require the Directors to assumptions used by the Group.
We compared the sum of the make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and discounted cash flows to the Groups market capitalisation to exposures.
This is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit assess the reasonableness of those cash flows.
For more recent is concentrated on due to the Group operating in a number of acquisitions we also compared actual results post acquisition tax jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer pricing and other to the results in the business case supporting the transaction.
international tax legislation and the time taken for tax matters to We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures see Note be agreed with the tax authorities.
13 about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Independent Auditors Report continued Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom and the among others, the use of our own international and local tax USA.
In addition, specified audit procedures were performed by specialists to assess the Groups tax positions, its correspondence the Group audit team over other reporting components as part with the relevant tax authorities and to analyse and challenge of the audit for Group reporting purposes.
These other reporting the assumptions used to determine tax provisions based on components, typically smaller in size, were selected at short notice our knowledge and experiences of the application of the to give an element of unpredictability in our overall scope of work.
international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and In aggregate our audit procedures covered 79% of total Group courts.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups revenue: 92% of Group profit before tax: and 78% of total Group disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
The segment disclosure in Note 4 sets out the individual significance of a specific country.
Other provisions including product warranty, legal and divestment-related provisions : The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the Refer to page 50 Audit and Risk Committee Report, page 85 key reporting components of the Group were all performed to accounting policy and page 111 financial disclosures.
materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the Group audit team.
These local materiality levels were set individually for each The risk: Provisions are recorded based on managements best component and ranged from 0.1 million to 2.6 million.
estimate of the Groups ultimate liability to settle an obligation.
Like other companies in this sector, events that have typically led Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the component auditors to claims in the past include product performance, commercial in the above locations.
These instructions covered the significant disputes, alleged patent infringements and divestments.
The level audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included of judgement involved in determining whether the recognition the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and criteria are met and then in calculating the best estimate, set out the information required to be reported back to the Group coupled with the size of the total provisions balance and the fact audit team.
The Group audit team performed the audit work and movements impact earnings, results in provisions being one of were physically present at five out of six reporting components in the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
scope in the USA, the Groups single largest geographical market.
Our response: We have discussed with the Directors the basis for In addition, the Group audit team physically visited key reporting their best estimates, challenged the basis used with reference to components in the following countries: Brazil, Denmark, Singapore the latest available corroborative information, obtained selected and the United Kingdom.
Telephone meetings were also held with third-party confirmations and corroborated the provisions the auditors at these locations and all of the other locations that recorded in light of our understanding of the business gained were not physically visited.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about provisions and the movements in the The remaining 21% of revenue, 8% of Group profit before tax year were appropriate.
and 22% of total Group assets is represented by 174 reporting components around the world.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope components individually represented more than 4% of revenue, of our audit profit before tax or total Group assets.
Local statutory audits are The materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was performed at a limited number of these components but generally set at 11 million.
This has been determined with reference to a these are completed after the date of this report.
benchmark of Group profit before tax, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
Materiality Act 2006 is unmodified represents 4% of Group profit before tax and 6% of Group profit In our opinion: before tax adjusted for the profit on disposal of businesses as disclosed on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee to report to it all 2006: and corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors our audit with a value in excess of 0.4 million, in addition to Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed at the key reporting components in the following countries: Australia, Belgium, China, Denmark, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 74 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on Scope of report and responsibilities which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland we are set out on page 54, the Directors are responsible for the required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that of an audit of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting knowledge or the Financial Statements, a material misstatement of Councils website at www.
This fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our In particular, we are required to report to you if: responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if we have identified material inconsistencies between the set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis statement that they consider that the Annual Report and of our opinions.
Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Richard Broadbelt Senior Statutory Auditor shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model for and on behalf of KPMG Audit plc, Statutory Auditor and strategy: or Chartered Accountants the Audit and Risk Committee Report does not appropriately 15 Canada Square address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk London, E14 5GL Committee.
27 February 2014 Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 53, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 40 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for ourreview.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
