100 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 103 to 147.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Goodwill 45.8 million Refer to page 67 Audit Committee report of the Governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts, pages 109, 111 accounting policy and pages 120 to 123 financial disclosures.
The risk Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows which support the carrying value of goodwill, this is one of the key judgemental areas in our audit.
There is an increased risk of impairment for i the goodwill balances that arose in recent acquisitions, and ii for amounts allocated to components of the Group that have experienced trading difficulties in recent years, with operations in Europe being of most concern given the downturn in performance in prior periods.
Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, testing the integrity of the key assumptions applied by the Group, in particular those relating to future revenue growth and discount rates.
We utilised our own valuation specialists to assist us in comparing the Groups discount rate assumption to risk-adjusted market rates.
The growth rates were compared to the approved budgets, which represent the Groups forecasts of expected future performance, as well as to our own assessments based on our knowledge of the business, the historical performance of the business and our view on market conditions.
We re-performed the Groups sensitivity analysis and, having ascertained the extent of change in the key assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for goodwill to be impaired and the circumstances that could result in those changes, considered the likelihood of such a set of circumstances arising.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuations and the requirements of accounting standards.
Tax payable 16.9 million and UK deferred tax asset 14.2 million Refer to page 67 Audit Committee report of the Governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts, pages 109, 113 accounting policy and pages 118, 125 to 126 financial disclosures.
The risk The Group operates in many tax jurisdictions and must comply with complex rules with regard to corporate taxation, in particular in the area of transfer pricing.
There is judgement involved in assessing the amount of exposures from challenges by local tax authorities as well as the recoverability of deferred tax assets, in particular those arising from tax losses in the UK trading entity, due to the inherent uncertainty in assessing future taxable profits.
Our response Our procedures in this area included utilising our global tax specialists to assist us in evaluating the Groups assessment of tax exposures, appraising the likely outcome of tax treatments and inspecting correspondence with the tax authorities to assess the reasonableness of the tax provisions made.
The deferred tax asset arising from tax losses in the UK trading entity results principally from temporary deficit reduction contributions into the main UK pension schemes.
We assessed the recoverability of this asset through stress testing the financial forecasts of the UK trading entity.
We tested the integrity of the key assumptions applied in the forecasts, such as future revenue growth and profit margins and made our own assessments in relation to the future performance of the UK trading entity.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of deferred tax and uncertain tax positions.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 101 Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued Development costs 2.8 million capitalised in the year and software costs 5.2 million capitalised in the year Refer to page 67 Audit Committee report of the Governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts, pages 109, 111 accounting policy and pages 120 to 121 financial disclosures.
The risk Development costs and software costs are expensed unless they meet specific criteria in accounting standards, in which case they are capitalised.
The assessment of whether or not development and software related costs meet the criteria regarding the required degree of confidence in the technical feasibility and commerciality of each project is inherently judgemental and, therefore, there is a risk that costs may be inappropriately capitalised and profit for the period overstated.
Our response Our audit work included an evaluation of the adequacy of the Groups policies for capitalisation of development and software related costs against the requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
We examined the nature of capitalised development and software related costs and tested a sample of these costs compared to the requirements of those accounting standards.
In relation to capitalised development costs, we stress tested, through discussion with the Groups technical department, the technical feasibility of completing each project and their commercial prospects.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of judgement involved in determining the carrying amount of these assets.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 10.5m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation of which it represents 7%, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 0.4m, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group is characterised by a diverse geographic footprint, represented by a large number of medium and small sized operations.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by the Group audit team at the key reporting component in the UK and by component audit teams in the following countries: UK, US two components, Italy two components, China, France, South Korea, Argentina, Germany two components, Russia, Singapore, Taiwan, Brazil, Australia, and Spain.
These audits covered 74% of total Group revenue, 72% of Group profit before taxation, and 79% of total Group assets.
Analytical procedures were performed by a component audit team in Italy and by the Group audit team for the Group components in Canada, Japan, and the Netherlands.
The analytical procedures covered 4% of total Group revenue, 4% of Group profit before taxation, and 4% of total Group assets.
The remaining 22% of Group revenue, 24% of Group profit before tax and 17% of Group total assets are represented by 33 components, none of which represented individually more than 2% of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax, or Group total assets.
Statutory audits are performed at the majority of these components but generally these are completed after the date of this report.
We took account of the prior year audits of these entities in assessing the risk that a material misstatement could arise.
The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the Group were all performed to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the Group audit team.
These materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from 0.1m to 3.2m.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these locations.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited the key reporting component in person or attended telephone meetings with the auditors at the following countries: UK one component not audited by the Group audit team, US two components, China, and South Korea.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Annual report on remuneration to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Governance report set out on pages 70 to 72 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and on page 97 with respect to share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report of the Governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Strategic report 102 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements continued Independent auditors report continued to the members of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Annual report on remuneration to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 98, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 6263 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 99, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
John Cain Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 5th March 2014
