STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Spirent Communications plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Spirent Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the parent Company balance sheet and the related notes 1 the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has to 18.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Strategic and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 79, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or opinion on the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Spirent Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Karl Havers Senior statutory auditor assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently 27 February 2014 applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Notes accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Spirent Communications plc website is the presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
