the business review management & governance Financial Statements & Notes additional information 93 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of sports direct international plc we have audited the parent company financial statements of sports direct international plc for the 52 week period ended 28 april 2013 which comprise the parent company balance sheet and the related notes.
the financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and united kingdom accounting standards united kingdom generally accepted accounting practice.
this report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with chapter 3 of part 16 of the companies act 2006. our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
to the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Matters on which we are required to report by exception as explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the we have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements companies act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
our responsibility is to adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in accordance or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not with applicable law and international standards on auditing uk and ireland.
visited by us: or those standards require us to comply with the auditing practices boards apbs ethical standards for auditors.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting Scope of the audit of the financial statements records and returns: or a description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the apbs website at www.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Opinion on financial statements in our opinion the parent company financial statements: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 28 april 2013: Other matter we have reported separately on the group financial statements of sports direct have been properly prepared in accordance with united kingdom generally international plc for the 52 week period ended 28 april 2013. accepted accounting practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the companies act 2006.
Paul Etherington BSc FCA CF senior statutory auditor Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 for and on behalf of grant thornton uk llp in our opinion: statutory auditor, chartered accountants the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been london properly prepared in accordance with the companies act 2006: and 18 July 2013 the information given in the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
