Sports Direct plc Annual Report 2013 56 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of sports direct international plc we have audited the group financial statements of sports direct international plc for the 52 week period ended 28 april 2013 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related notes.
the financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and international financial reporting standards ifrss as adopted by the european union.
this report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance Matters on which we are required to report by exception with chapter 3 of part 16 of the companies act 2006. our audit work has been we have nothing to report in respect of the following: undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we under the companies act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
to opinion: the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
or Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our as explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the audit: or directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
our responsibility is to a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and international standards on auditing uk and ireland.
under the listing rules, we are required to review: those standards require us to comply with the auditing practices boards apbs ethical standards for auditors.
the directors statement, set out on page 38, in relation to going concern: Scope of the audit of the financial statements the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the companys a description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the compliance with the nine provisions of the uk corporate governance code apbs website at www.
2010 specified for our review: and Opinion on financial statements certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board on directors in our opinion the group financial statements: remuneration.
give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 28 april 2013 Other matter and of its profit for the 52 week period then ended: we have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of sports direct international plc for the 52 week period ended 28 april 2013 and have been properly prepared in accordance with ifrss as adopted by the on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as european union: and having been audited.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the companies act 2006 and article 4 of the ias regulation.
Paul Etherington BSc FCA CF Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 senior statutory auditor in our opinion: for and on behalf of grant thornton uk llp statutory auditor, chartered accountants the information given in the directors report for the financial year for which london the group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group 18 July 2013 financial statements.
: and the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 39 to 44 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
