96142 STC Back PRINT 96142 STC Back V14 02 07 2013 12:28 Page 53 Independent auditors report to the members of Stagecoach Group plc Company No.
SC100764 We have audited the group financial statements of Stagecoach Group plc for Opinion on other matters prescribed by the the year ended 30 April 2013 which comprise the Consolidated income Companies Act 2006 statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the In our opinion: Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated statement of cash flows and the related notes.
The financial the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable which the group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by group financial statements: and the European Union.
the information given in the Corporate governance report set out on pages 32 to 36 with respect to internal control and risk management systems is consistent with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities in Matters on which we are required to report by respect of the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the exception financial statements set out on page 29, the Directors are responsible for the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with opinion: applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Ethical Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the our audit: or Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any company.
other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 31, in relation to going concern: Scope of the audit of the financial statements the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the specified for our review: and financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting remuneration.
policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall Other matter presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial We have reported separately on page 110 on the parent company financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material statements of Stagecoach Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2013 and on inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the having been audited.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 April Graham McGregor Senior Statutory Auditor 2013 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Glasgow have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 26 June 2013 Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
