Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Stobart Group Limited We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Stobart Group Opinion on Financial Statements Limited for the year ended 28 February 2013 which comprise the In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial at 28 February 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash-flow Statement and the related Notes 1 to 30.
Are in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Union: and preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Matters on which we are required to report by exception in accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest report to you if, in our opinion: extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company: to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members The Financial Statements are not in agreement with the as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we accounting records: or have formed.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Groups set out on page 44, the Directors are responsible for the preparation compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate of the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they Governance Code specified for our review.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with Other Matter applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Statements of Stobart Group Limited for the year ended 28 February 2013.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Nicola Quayle disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Manchester assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 16 May 2013 assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
