Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Stobart Group Limited We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Opinion on Financial Statements Stobart Group Limited for the year ended 28 February 2013 which In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements: comprise the Company Income statement, the Statement of Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs Comprehensive Income, the Company Statement of Financial as at 28 February 2013 and of its profit for the year then Position, the Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the ended: Company Cash flow statement and the related Notes A to M. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in theirAre in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Union: and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, Matters on which we are required to report by exception 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where to the Companys members those matters we are required to state the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requires us to report to you to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the in our opinion: fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and theProper accounting records have not been kept by the Company: Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, The Financial Statements are not in agreement with the or for the opinions we have formed.
accounting records: or We have not received all the information and explanations we Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on page 44, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied Other Matter that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements Stobart Group Limited for the year ended 28 February 2013. in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Nicola Quayle Auditors.
For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Manchester Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 16 May 2013 disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
