Independent auditors report to the members of Synthomer plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the Group financial statements, dened below: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash ows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements the financial statements, which are prepared by Synthomer plc, comprise: the Consolidated balance sheet and Analysis of net borrowings as at 31 December 2013: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Consolidated cash ow statement for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report for the financial year to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 4.1 million, which represents 4.5% of underlying profit being profit before tax adjusted for special items.
We used underlying profit for our materiality judgement because it is the principal measure used by the Directors in the Annual Report to discuss the Groups financial performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identied during our audit above 200,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
52 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 Group financial statements Overview of the scope of our audit The Group has business operations worldwide, principally in Europe and Asia, the largest being Germany, Malaysia and the UK.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, being holding companies, intermediate holding companies and operations based in thirteen countries comprised of nineteen trading companies.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group engagement team visited operations in Germany and the UK as part of the audit.
In determining our scope we considered the nature, location and size of the Groups operations at each component and any significant issues reported by local statutory audit teams around the Group.
Based on this scoping, our Group audit focused on six reporting units which were all subject to audits of their complete financial information and included Germany, Malaysia and the UK.
Together with various head ofce companies, which were also subject to audits of their complete financial information, this accounted for 78% of the Groups revenue, 79% of the Groups operating profit and 83% of the Groups underlying profit before tax.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identied by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 29.
How the scope of our audit addressed Area of focus the area of focus Provisions for uncertain taxation positions We requested and read the latest correspondence between We focused on this area because the Group has a number the Group and the overseas tax authorities.
of significant taxation provisions, which by their nature We discussed the potential tax exposure with senior Group require an element of judgement to determine an management and the basis for their positions with the appropriate level to record them at.
We utilised our experience of similar challenges elsewhere to independently assess the evidence for these provisions.
Dened benefit pension accounting We evaluated the reasonableness of the assumptions used We focused on this area because the Group has significant for the valuation of the UK and German pension schemes, dened benefit pension schemes in the UK and Germany, focusing on the key financial and non-financial assumptions with a material net pension liability recorded on the Group where a small movement in the assumption could lead to a balance sheet.
The net liability is based on a number significant movement in the net pension liability.
The key of assumptions and is highly sensitive to small changes assumptions were the discount rate and mortality in these.
assumptions which are disclosed in note 25 of the Group financial statements.
We compared these assumptions to our expected range for similar schemes as at the year end.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 53 Independent auditors report to the members of Synthomer plc continued How the scope of our audit addressed Area of focus the area of focus Fraud in revenue recognition We focused on whether the revenue recognised ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in corresponded to sales transactions that took place in revenue recognition because of the pressure management the period.
To address this we tested a sample of revenue may feel to achieve the planned results or expectations.
transactions in the year to supporting documentation.
We also used data analysis techniques to identify any unusual transactions relating to revenue, and tested these.
In addition we tested manual journal entries posted to revenue accounts, obtaining supporting evidence to determine that the journal was appropriate.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, ISAs UK & Ireland require us to consider the risk including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow associated with management override of controls.
inappropriate actions, and assessed the results of the Groups internal audit reviews that took place in the year.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud with a particular focus on centrally held provisions and accruals.
We also evaluated controls in place over the approval and processing of manual journals, testing manual journals that we considered to be higher risk in nature and obtaining supporting evidence to determine that these journals were appropriate.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 51, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have it that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinion on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
54 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 Group financial statements Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 51 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 29, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 51, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Synthomer plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Andrew Latham Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors St Albans 27 February 2014 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 55
