Company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Synthomer plc Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Report on the Parent Company Act 2006 financial Statements In our opinion: Our opinion The information given in the Strategic report and the In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: Directors Report for the financial year for which the Parent give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Company financial statements are prepared is consistent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013: with the Parent Company financial statements.
have been properly prepared in accordance with United The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and audited has been properly prepared in accordance with have been prepared in accordance with the requirements the Companies Act 2006. of the Companies Act 2006.
Other matters on which we are required to report This opinion is to be r ead in the context of what we say in by exception the remainder of this report.
Adequacy of accounting records and information What we have audited and explanations received The Parent Company financial statements, which are Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report prepared by Synthomer plc, comprise: to you if, in our opinion: the Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 December we have not received all the information and explanations 2013: we require for our audit: or the notes to the Parent Company financial statements, adequate accounting records have not been kept by the which include a summary of significant accounting policies Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have and other explanatory information.
not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part The financial reporting framework that has been applied of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are in their preparation comprises applicable law and United not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example Directors remuneration in respect of significant accounting estimates.
In making such Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, estimates, they have made assumptions and considered in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration future events.
specified by law have not been made.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Other information in the Annual Report Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give materially inconsistent with the information in the audited reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Parent Company financial statements: or from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially This includes an assessment of: inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Parent Company whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Parent Companys circumstances and have been is otherwise misleading.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates We have no exceptions to report arising from this made by the Directors: and responsibility.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Responsibilities for the financial statements In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial and the audit information in the Synthomer Annual Report the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Parent Company financial statements and to identify any As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, Statement set out on page 51, the Directors are responsible or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by for the preparation of the Parent Company financial us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware statements and for being satisfied that they give a true of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies and fair view.
we consider the implications for our report.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 95 Independent auditors report to the members of Synthomer plc continued Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other Matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Synthomer plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Andrew Latham Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors St Albans 27 February 2014 96 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013
