Directors report: Overview Directors report: Performance review Directors report: Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC We have audited the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with ofTalkTalk Telecom Group PLC for the year ended IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and 31March 2013 which comprise the Group income have been prepared in accordance with the statement, the Group statement of comprehensive requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and income, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 27.
The financial reporting Separate opinion in relation framework that has been applied in their preparation toIFRSsas issued by the IASB isapplicable law and International Financial Reporting As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation This report is made solely to the Companys members, to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of also applied IFRSs as issued by the International the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been Accounting Standards Board IASB.
undertaken so that we might state to the Companys In our opinion the Group financial statements comply members those matters we are required to state to them with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Opinion on other matter prescribed assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company by the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions wehave formed.
In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group Respective responsibilities ofDirectors financial statements are prepared is consistent with and auditor the Group financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Matters on which we are required Statement, the Directors are responsible for the toreport by exception preparation of the Group financial statements and forbeing satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion onthe Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required Group financial statements in accordance with applicable toreport to you if, in our opinion: law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and Scope of the audit of the explanations we require for our audit.
financialstatements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to the Directors statement, contained within give reasonable assurance that the financial statements theChiefFinancial Officer's review, in relation are free from material misstatement, whether caused togoing concern: by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement whether the accounting policies are appropriate relating to the Companys compliance with the nine tothe Groups circumstances and have been provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code consistently applied and adequately disclosed: specified for our review: and the reasonableness of significant accounting certain elements of the report to shareholders by estimates made by the Directors: and the Board on Directors remuneration.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Other matter In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial We have reported separately on the Parent Company information in the Annual Report to identify material financial statements of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC for inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
the year ended 31 March 2013 and on the information in If we become aware of any apparent material the Directors Remuneration Report that is described misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the as having been audited.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: Peter ODonoghue BA FCA Senior Statutory Auditor give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP affairs as at 31 March 2013 and of its profit for the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor year then ended: London, United Kingdom 15 May 2013 31
