Directors report: Overview Directors report: Performance review Directors report: Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC We have audited the Parent Company financial Opinion on financial statements statements of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC for the year In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the Company give a true and fair view of the state of the balance sheet, the Company reconciliation of Companys affairs as at 31 March 2013: movements in shareholders funds and the related notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that have been properly prepared in accordance with has been applied in their preparation is applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Practice: and Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the This report is made solely to the Companys members, requirements of the Companies Act 2006. as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been Opinion on other matters prescribed by the undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Companies Act 2006 members those matters we are required to state to In our opinion: them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than audited has been properly prepared in accordance the Company and the Companys members as a body with the Companies Act 2006: and for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the information given in the Directors Report for the have formed.
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company Respective responsibilities ofDirectors financial statements.
and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Matters on which we are required toreport Statement, the Directors are responsible for the by exception preparation of the Parent Company financial statements We have nothing to report in respect of the following and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on toreport to you if, in our opinion: the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on adequate accounting records have not been kept Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us bythe Parent Company, or returns adequate for to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical ouraudit have not been received from branches Standards for Auditors.
notvisited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the Scope of the audit of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be financialstatements audited are not in agreement with the accounting An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts records and returns: or and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient certain disclosures of Directors remuneration to give reasonable assurance that the financial specified by law are not made: or statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an we have not received all the information and assessment of: explanations we require for our audit.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Other matter the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC forthe year.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and theoverall presentation of the financial statements.
Inaddition, we read all the financial and non-financial Peter ODonoghue BA FCA Senior Statutory Auditor information in the Annual Report to identify material for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor If we become aware of any apparent material London, United Kingdom misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 15 May 2013 implications for our report.
