Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC We have audited the Parent company financial disclosed: the reasonableness of significant the Parent company financial statements statements of Tate & Lyle PLC for the year accounting estimates made by the directors: and the part of the Directors Remuneration ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the and the overall presentation of the financial Report to be audited are not in agreement Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related statements.
In addition, we read all the financial with the accounting records and returns: or Notes to the Parent company financial and non-financial information in the Annual certain disclosures of directors remuneration statements.
The financial reporting framework Report 2013 to identify material inconsistencies specified by law are not made: or that has been applied in their preparation is with the audited financial statements.
If we we have not received all the information applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting become aware of any apparent material and explanations we require for our audit.
Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted misstatements or inconsistencies we consider Accounting Practice.
the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group Respective responsibilities of Opinion on financial statements financial statements of Tate & Lyle PLC for the In our opinion the Parent company financial year ended 31 March 2013. directors and auditors statements: As explained more fully in the Directors Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor Statement of Responsibilities set out on page give a true and fair view of the state for and on behalf of 65, the directors are responsible for the of the Parent companys affairs as at  LLP preparation of the Parent company financial 31 March 2013: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors statements and for being satisfied that they give have been properly prepared in accordance London a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit with United Kingdom Generally Accepted and express an opinion on the Parent company Accounting Practice: and 29 May 2013 financial statements in accordance with have been prepared in accordance with the applicable law and International Standards on requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Those standards Notes: require us to comply with the Auditing Practices a The maintenance and integrity of the Tate & Lyle PLC website, and any other electronic media Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Opinion on other matters used to present the financial statements, is the prescribed by the Companies Act This Report, including the opinions, has been responsibility of the directors: the work carried 2006 out by the auditors does not involve consideration prepared for and only for the companys of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors In our opinion: members as a body in accordance with accept no responsibility for any changes that may Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act the part of the Directors Remuneration have occurred to the financial statements since 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, they were initially presented on the website, or Report to be audited has been properly in giving these opinions, accept or assume any other electronic media.
prepared in accordance with the Companies responsibility for any other purpose or to any b L egislation in the United Kingdom governing Act 2006: and other person to whom this report is shown the preparation and dissemination of financial the information given in the Directors Report statements may differ from legislation in other or into whose hands it may come save where for the financial year for which the Parent jurisdictions.
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent company financial statements.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about Matters on which we are required the amounts and disclosures in the financial to report by exception statements sufficient to give reasonable We have nothing to report in respect of the assurance that the financial statements are free following matters where the Companies Act from material misstatement, whether caused by 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: opinion: whether the accounting policies are appropriate adequate accounting records have not been to the Parent companys circumstances and kept by the Parent company, or returns have been consistently applied and adequately adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 119
