Page Title Independent Auditors Report Opinion on financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc Going concern In our opinion: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 59 that the Group is a going concern.
We the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the confirm that: Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in continue as a going concern which we believe would need to be accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs disclosed in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European as adopted by the European Union: Union: and the parent Company financial statements have been properly we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements Accounting Practices: and is appropriate.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the However, because not all future events or conditions can be requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
to continue as a going concern.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, The assessed risks of material misstatement described below the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 33 and 1 to 17.
The engagement team: financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Carrying value of inventory We performed testing on the detailed exercise completed by The carrying value of inventory at the lower of cost and net realisable management, validating a sample of inputs by reference to internal value is dependent on key judgements in relation to future expected site specific information such as cost to complete estimates as sales prices and costs, determined on a site by site basis.
well as actual prices from sales achieved during the year and independent forecasts of movements in future selling prices.
We also consider the sensitivity of the key judgements.
Inventory costing For a sample of plots and sites, we tested additions to the inventory Inventory is the most significant balance on the Balance Sheet.
We balance to check that costs had been appropriately capitalised, by consider the appropriate recognition of costs into inventory and the tracing these additions to supporting supplier invoices.
allocation of these between different phases and plots, including For a sample of plots and sites, we also tested that shared costs shared costs such as land and infrastructure to be a risk.
These were allocated appropriately by assessing the reasonableness of affect the appropriateness of the margin recognised on each the methodology used and independently recalculating this.
We also tested the operating effectiveness of controls over this area.
Defined benefit pension scheme accounting We assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the Accounting for defined benefit pension schemes, is dependent qualified independent actuary engaged by the Group.
on significant assumptions, including discount rates, salary and We engaged our internal actuarial specialists to assess the pension increases, price inflation and mortality rates.
appropriateness of the methodology and assumptions used to During the year, the merger of the Taylor Woodrow Group Pension account for the defined benefit scheme.
This included comparison and Life Assurance Fund and the George Wimpey Staff Pension of key data with market benchmarks and to challenge the Scheme occurred following the implementation of a pension funding methodology used by the scheme actuaries.
whether each assumption was reasonable in isolation and collectively in determining the pension liability at the balance sheet date.
We also obtained an understanding of the scheme merger and audited the transaction.
82 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 82 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p1-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-62 Financial Statements p63-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk System implementation We audited the business controls in place for the migration to During the year the Group completed a migration to a COINS COINS and tested a sample of data to check that it was consistent based Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system.
We also tested the operating effectiveness of the key IT controls within the COINS system.
Revenue recognition We carried out testing around cut-off and timing of revenue Revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition in recognition of land sales and social housing revenue, as well as relation to the sale of land, and recognition of revenue and profit substantive testing, analytical procedures and assessing whether arising from social housing contracts which are accounted for as the revenue recognition policies adopted complied with IFRS.
A sample of contracts was tested through verification of costs Long term contracting requires judgement to determine the incurred and supporting evidence for the percentage completion appropriateness of calculating the revenue and profit to be at the balance sheet date sought from customer certification.
recognised, estimating the total expected costs to complete each site and the percentage of completion at the balance sheet date.
The Audit Committees consideration of their risks is set out on page 58.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the Joint ventures and the Spanish operations were subject to specified context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the of the Groups operations at those locations.
risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and individual matters.
carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there Our application of materiality were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit statements that make it probable that the economic decisions of a or audit of specified account balances.
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
The audit is performed centrally and includes all of the regional We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in business units within the Groups UK Housing division.
We choose to evaluating the results of our work.
visit a sample of regional business units selected on a rotational basis We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 20 million, and with reference to size and complexity among other factors.
which is calculated based on 7.5% of pre-tax profit for the year Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 excluding exceptional items.
In our opinion: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.4 million, as well as been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting 2006: and on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are presentation of the financial statements.
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Matters on which we are required to report by exception Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records assessing the risks of material misstatements at the Group level.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope in our opinion: primarily on the audit work at the UK Housing division excluding joint ventures which represents the principal segment within the Group we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or and accounts for 98% of the Groups net operating assets, 99% of the Groups revenue and 99% of the Groups profit on ordinary adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent activities before joint ventures, finance costs, exceptional items Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received and tax.
from branches not visited by us: or We audit all of the Groups UK subsidiaries which are subject to audit the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with at statutory materiality level, which in most cases is substantially lower the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
co. uk 83 Taylor Wimpey plc www.
co. uk 83 Independent Auditors Report continued Page Title Directors remuneration This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Companys members those matters we are required to state to them is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to report arising anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as from these matters.
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Scope of the audit of the financial statements Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Report is: reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the materiality inconsistent with the information in the audited financial Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the statements: or Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the performing our audit: or knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We Colin Hudson, FCA Senior Statutory Auditor confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP misleading statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor London, United Kingdom As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, 25 February 2014 the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
84 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 84 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
