86 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Telecity Group plc Our opinion In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the In our opinion: audited Group financial statements and to identify any information the financial statements defined below give a true and fair view of that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material year then ended: misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in our report.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Overview of our audit approach the Parent Company financial statements have been properly Materiality prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European We set certain thresholds for materiality.
This helped us to determine Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate Companies Act 2006: and the effect of misstatements both individually and on the financial the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with statements as a whole.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 4.4 million which This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
represents approximately 5% of profit before tax.
What we have audited We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 218k as well as We have audited the financial statements of Telecity Group plc misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the: reporting for qualitative reasons.
Consolidated income statement: Overview of the scope of our audit Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: The Group operates colocation data centre services in key markets Consolidated statement of changes in equity: in the UK and Europe.
As outlined in the Annual Report, the European Company statement of changes in equity: operations are based in 11 countries which align to reporting units, as Consolidated balance sheet: well as a number of head office companies.
Company balance sheet: Consolidated cash flow statement: In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we Consolidated net debt statement: and determined the significance of, and risk associated with, specific Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of reporting units as well as the type and level of work that needed to significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
be performed in order to provide assurance on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Where the work was performed by The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their component auditors, we determined the level of involvement in the preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the audit work at those reporting units we needed in order to conclude European Union and, as regards the Parent Company, as applied in whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
We identified four reporting units which, in our view, based on their Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework size or their risk characteristics, required an audit of their complete have been presented elsewhere in the Telecity Group plc Annual financial information.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances report and accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes and transactions were performed at three further reporting units.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and identified as audited.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level on the remaining reporting units, goodwill impairment, going What an audit of financial statements involves concern assessments and acquisition accounting gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards statements as a whole.
on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Through the audit procedures we performed we have achieved financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that coverage of 79% of the Groups profit before tax.
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 87 Areas of particular audit focus We considered the following areas to be those that required In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all of subjective judgements, for example, in respect of significant risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these accounting estimates involving assumptions and consideration of areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against the financial statements is set out on page 52. available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through either testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of management override of controls We assessed the level of risk with reference to incentive plans, the effectiveness of controls and discussions with Directors and senior We are required by Auditing Standards to focus our work in this area management.
as there is a risk that senior management can potentially override controls, regardless of how strong the wider control environment is.
Based on risk, we tested key reconciliations and manual journal entries.
We focused our work on areas with significant accounting estimates or underlying judgements that could potentially be manipulated.
We assessed whether there was evidence of bias in Directors estimates, both individually and in aggregate.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition We tested revenue to supporting evidence including agreement of the terms of contracts.
Revenue is derived from customer contracts and is susceptible to risk of error or manipulation, especially in relation to recognition criteria.
We focused our audit procedures on testing whether transactions had actually taken place and were accounted for in the correct period.
Audit procedures also included testing reconciliations and manual journals related to both recognised and deferred revenue.
Potential impairment principally goodwill, intangible assets We assessed the performance of the acquired businesses and and data centre property, plant and equipment managements projections of future performance in the context of internal and external information.
The Group has significant and growing asset balances.
Under International Accounting Standard 36, management is required We evaluated key assumptions including growth rates, discount annually to assess the carrying value of any goodwill and indefinite-life rates and cost of capital in the context of the level of headroom intangible assets.
Assessment of impairment is, by its nature, very and sensitivity to changes in the assumptions.
judgmental and requires careful assessment of key assumptions We tested new acquisitions this year to check the classification of underlying the models and detailed cash flow forecasts.
intangible assets and the assessed fair values.
Additions to depreciation of data centre related property, plant We tested the operating effectiveness of controls in place around and equipment capital expenditure and tested them for effectiveness.
Additionally, we tested new assets acquired during the year, specifically checking Due to the nature of the assets there is judgment in the capitalisation the nature of costs which have been capitalised, the appropriateness of costs and timing of commencement of depreciation which directly of their capitalisation and timing of both recognition as an asset and impacts the carrying value of assets.
88 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Telecity Group plc continued Going Concern relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to report Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors having performed this review.
statement set out on page 126 in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
On page 128 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Parent Companys the information necessary for members to assess the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
performance, business model and strategy.
On page 52, as required The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent by C3.8.
of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and the Directors intend for them to do so, for at least one year from the how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we to report to you if, in our opinion: have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of However, because not all future events or conditions can be performing our audit: or predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Other information in the Annual Report Report for the financial year for which the financial statements Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: opinion, information in the Annual Report is: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 2006: and financial statements: or the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially set out on page 53 in the Annual Report with respect to internal inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent control and risk management systems and about share capital Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or structures is consistent with the financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit explanations received Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement in our opinion: set out on page 127, the Directors are responsible for the preparation we have not received all the information and explanations we of the Groups and Parent Companys financial statements and for require for our audit: or being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Groups Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been and Parent Companys financial statements in accordance with received from branches not visited by us: or applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in for Auditors.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Directors remuneration We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required by our prior consent in writing.
to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate Governance Statement Darryl Phillips Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been London prepared by the Parent Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement 11 February 2014
