OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 135 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Tesco PLC Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 for the financial year ended 23 February 2013 which comprise the Parent In our opinion: Company balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Accepted Accounting Practice.
and the information given in the Report of the directors for the financial Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors year ended 23 February 2013 for which the Parent Company financial As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company out on page 70, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements.
Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an Matters on which we are required to report by exception opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for from branches not visited by us: or the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into with the accounting records and returns: or whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not consent in writing.
made: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations we require An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and for our audit.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Other matter misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to TescoPLC for the financial year ended 23 February 2013. the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall for and on behalf of  LLP presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report London and Financial Statements to identify material inconsistencies 1 May 2013 with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 23 February 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
