90 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Independent auditors report to the members of Thomas Cook Group plc Overview of our audit approach Report on the financial statements Materiality Our opinion We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to In our opinion: determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures The financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as on the financial statements as a whole.
at 30 September 2013 and of the Groups loss and of the Groups and Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for The Group financial statements have been properly prepared the Group financial statements as a whole to be 15m.
In arriving in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards at this judgement we have had regard to underlying profit from IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: operations because, in our view, this is the metric against which the The Parent Company financial statements have been properly performance of the Group is most commonly measured.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the misstatements identified during our audit above 1m as well as Companies Act 2006: and misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with reporting for qualitative reasons.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview of the scope of our audit This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
The Group is currently organised into four geographic operating divisions: UK, Continental Europe, Northern Europe and Airlines What we have audited Germany.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial 97 reporting units comprising the Groups operating businesses statements the financial statements, which are prepared by within these divisions and centralised functions.
Thomas Cook Group plc, comprise: the Group and Parent Company balance sheets as at In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we 30 September 2013: determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component income for the year then ended: auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating the Group and Parent Company statements of changes in equity under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component and cash flow statements for the year then ended: and auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the The reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified 21 European Union and, as regards the Parent Company, as applied reporting units that, in our view, required an audit of their complete in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics, providing 85% coverage of the Groups underlying profit from operations.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts, Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial performed at a further two reporting units, comprising the Groups statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial internal IT development company because of material internally statements and are identified as audited.
generated intangible assets and Russian operations because of its size.
What an audit of financial statements involves Areas of particular audit focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
and Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling applied and adequately disclosed: and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
the Directors: and We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of the overall presentation of the financial statements.
controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information We considered the following areas to be those that required in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list audited financial statements and to identify any information that is of all risks and particular areas of focus identified by our audit.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 61. or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 91 Carrying value of goodwill and deferred tax assets Going concern The Group holds significant goodwill and deferred tax assets on the This was considered to be an area of audit focus due to the seasonal balance sheet and significant goodwill impairments were recorded nature of the Groups cash flow.
How the scope of our audit addressed this area of focus We focused on this area as it involves complex and subjective We evaluated whether the Groups forecast of funding 1 1 1 judgements by the Directors about the future results of requirements had taken appropriate account of the seasonal cash the business.
flows inherent in the Groups business.
How the scope of our audit addressed this area of focus We evaluated the key judgements within the Groups forecast, In evaluating whether any impairment was necessary to the including transformation activities and cost-out initiatives.
remaining carrying value of goodwill, our audit work involved We considered the adequacy of the Groups revised financing obtaining evidence regarding its recoverable amount and how it structure, including forecast compliance with financial covenants, compared to the amount at which goodwill is currently recorded.
and assessed the sensitivity of the Directors calculations to changes We evaluated the Directors goodwill impairment calculations in key inputs, in particular forecast underlying profit before tax.
including the value in use computations and discount rate Our conclusion on going concern is below.
and tested both the methodology and the assumptions applied, including a critical review of the historical accuracy of forecasts Aircraft leases and maintenance provisions and budgets.
We applied sensitivity analysis to the calculations Material assets and provisions for leased aircraft and their related to assess the impact of variations in the key assumptions, which maintenance are held on the balance sheet.
This was an area of included the forecast underlying profit before tax.
focus based on the size of these balances, which have increased following recent sale and leaseback transactions.
We considered the Directors assessment of the recoverability of deferred tax assets by evaluating the likelihood of achieving How the scope of our audit addressed this area of focus expected taxable profits against which such assets are to be utilised.
2 We reviewed the appropriateness of the maintenance provision calculations performed by management, including the assessment Risk of management override of internal controls of new obligations and key assumptions such as the quantum and ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
How the scope of our audit addressed this area of focus We reviewed aircraft lease contracts to ensure that they have been We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including appropriately accounted for as operating or finance leases.
the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal Risks associated with the Groups transformation programme audit function.
The Groups transformation programme has given rise to significant changes to the Groups control environment and a number of We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements accounting estimates involving subjective judgements, including relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors store closure and redundancy provisions, and asset disposals.
that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
How the scope of our audit addressed this area of focus This included testing manual journal entries and evaluating We increased our testing of balances materially impacted by the significant accounting estimates for example goodwill value transformation programme, evaluating managements judgements in use computations for evidence of biased judgements.
used in estimating the related provisions.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue We have performed additional testing where key processes and 3 recognition.
Because of this, we focused on the timing of revenue controls have been affected by transformation activities during recognition, given the level of deferred revenue at certain times the year.
of the year, and its presentation in the income statement.
Going concern How the scope of our audit addressed this area of focus Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal statement, set out on page 69, in relation to going concern.
controls over the completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue We have nothing to report having performed our review.
recognised in the financial statements.
As noted in the directors statement, the Directors have concluded that We tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify any it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Parent Companys financial unusual or irregular items.
We also tested the reconciliations between statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going the revenue systems used by the Group and its financial ledgers.
concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors We tested the deferral of revenue where cash was received in intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial advance of travel services being provided.
As part of our audit we have concluded that We assessed whether the Groups revenue recognition policies the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
complied with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and tested that, However, because not all future events or conditions can be in accordance with those policies, revenue was recognised based predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups on the date of customer departure.
We also tested whether the and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Group appropriately recorded revenue based on whether it acted as agent or principal.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 92 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Independent auditors report to the members of Thomas Cook Group plc continued On page 69 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision Opinions on matters prescribed by the C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report Companies Act 2006 taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and In our opinion: provides the information necessary for members to assess the the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 61, Report for the financial year for which the financial statements as required by C3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 2006: and the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of set out on pages 50 to 69 in the Annual Report with respect to performing our audit: or internal control and risk management systems and about share the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other matters on which we are required to report We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and Other information in the Annual Report explanations received Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: in our opinion: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited we have not received all the information and explanations we financial statements: or require for our audit: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or received from branches not visited by us: or is otherwise misleading.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Responsibilities for the financial statements We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
and the audit Directors remuneration Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report if, in our As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 69, the Directors are responsible for the opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified preparation of the Group and Parent Company financial statements by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and to report arising from these responsibilities.
Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Corporate Governance Statement with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion a corporate governance statement has not been This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only prepared by the Parent Company.
We have no exceptions to report for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter arising from this responsibility.
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 27 November 2013
