INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF 89 TRAVIS PERKINS PLC FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEmBER 2013 opinion on finanCiaL statements of separate opinion in reLation to ifrss travis perkins pLC as issUed by the iasb In our opinion the financial statements: As explained in note 1 to the group financial statements, Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has and of the Groups and the Parent companys profit for the also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting year then ended Standards Board IASB.
Have been properly prepared in accordance with In our opinion the group financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
adopted by the European Union Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements GoinG ConCern of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation directors statement contained within the Corporate The financial statements comprise the Group and Parent Governance Statement, that the Group is a going concern.
Company Income Statements, the Group and Parent We confirm that: Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Group We have concluded that the directors use of the going and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and financial statements is appropriate: and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, and the related We have not identified any material uncertainties that notes 1 to 37.
The financial reporting framework that has may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs continue as a going concern as adopted by the European Union.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
oUr assessment of risks of materiaL misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets We challenged managements assumptions used in the impairment management are required to undertake an annual model for goodwill and intangible assets, including specifically impairment review, which incorporates judgments the determination of cash-generating units, the forecast cash flow based on assumptions of future cash flows, including projections for each cash-generating unit and the discount rates, assumptions around revenue growth, margins and particularly with respect to the Consumer operating segment.
In forecast cash flows, the selection of appropriate making this critical assessment of the cash flow projections we discount rates and the assessment of the Groups assessed historical forecasting accuracy and compared forecast cash-generating units.
profit margins to historical margins and benchmarked the discount rate and growth rates employed to available market data.
We critically assessed managements position as to whether or not a reasonably possible change to key assumptions could result in an impairment.
In doing so we considered the sensitivity of the asset valuations to adverse outturn versus the forecasts, in particular adverse changes in the long term growth rate assumed and like-for-like sales.
We also specifically challenged and considered the appropriateness of the disclosures set out in note 13 and note 14 to the accounts detailing the point at which the valuation of goodwill and intangibles would equal their carrying amounts.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TRAVIS PERKINS PLC Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 90 Accounting for recognition of supplier rebate income We tested the operating effectiveness of the controls in the supplier The Group has entered into certain supplier rebate rebate cycle in both 2012 and 2013.
A key focus of our work was arrangements, which include provisions that vary on the controls to ensure new agreements entered into during the the amount of rebate due to the Group in line with year are appropriately captured by managements reporting systems.
volumes purchased or other parameters over periods We circularised a sample of suppliers to confirm rebate terms and that are not necessarily coterminous with the Groups balances, verified post year-end cash receipts to assess recoverability financial year.
These arrangements are complex and and validity of the amount recognised as receivable at year end.
We therefore management judgement is necessary in also reviewed and challenged managements calculations to estimate relation to recognition of the associated income.
the impact of rebate agreements on purchases of items held in stock at year end.
Inventory valuation We performed substantive audit testing over the valuation of inventory Inventory valuation, including recognition at cost after balances, including attendance at inventory counts.
We critically appropriate adjustment for supplier rebates, and assessed and challenged the adjustments made to gross inventory allowances to recognise inventories at the lower of balances, including adjustments for stock handling costs, supplier cost and net realisable value.
rebates and slow moving obsolete stock to determine that the provisions recorded were appropriate.
Provisions for liabilities We assessed the Groups provisions for self-insurance in light of The Group incurs certain liabilities in the normal evidence from the Groups insurance advisors and critically assessed course of business where assessment of the related the appropriateness of the assumptions by the Groups property provision requires the exercise of judgement, including specialists applied in determining the level of property provisions in respect of self-insurance and property leases.
recognised in the financial statements.
We assessed and challenged the assumptions around the length for which properties are expected to remain vacant, the judgments around sub-letting, and the cost assumptions applied throughout the onerous periods.
Income taxes We challenged managements determination of the Groups The Group is required to consider the extent to accounting for income taxes, using our taxation specialists to assess which the impact of uncertain tax positions should the judgements made, including the level of provision maintained be recognised within the current and deferred for any uncertain tax positions, in light of evidence that included taxation charge for the year and related current and correspondence with the relevant tax authorities.
deferred taxation assets and liabilities in the financial statements.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out an overview of the sCope of oUr aUdit on pages 65 and 66.
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding Our audit procedures relating to these matters were of the Group and its environment, including group-wide designed in the context of our audit of the financial controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on the group level.
The senior statutory auditor was involved in individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the all decisions including the risk assessment and approach to financial statements is not modified with respect to any of group-wide controls testing.
Based on that assessment, we the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion focused our group audit scope primarily on the Groups four on these individual matters.
These principal divisions are the Groups four operating segments and represent 99% of the Groups oUr appLiCation of materiaLity net assets, the Groups revenue and the Groups profit We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement before tax.
Our statutory audits were executed at levels of in the financial statements that makes it probable that the materiality applicable to each individual entity, which were economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person much lower than group materiality.
would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our results of our work.
conclusion that there were no significant risks of material We determined materiality for the group to be 22 misstatement of the aggregated financial information of million, which is below 7.5% of pre-tax profit.
the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would specified account balances.
report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.3 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 opinion on other matters presCribed by the discloses those matters that we communicated to the 91 Companies aCt 2006 Audit Committee which we consider should have been In our opinion: disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be inconsistencies or misleading statements.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and respeCtive responsibiLities of direCtors The information given in the Strategic Report and the and aUditor Directors Report for the financial year for which the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation financial statements of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit matters on whiCh we are reqUired to report and express an opinion on the financial statements in by exCeption accordance with applicable law and International Standards Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards to you if, in our opinion: for Auditors.
We have not received all the information and explanations This report is made solely to the Companys members, we require for our audit: or as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have so that we might state to the companys members those not been received from branches not visited by us: or matters we are required to state to them in an auditors The Parent Company financial statements are not in report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent agreement with the accounting records and returns.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for Directors remuneration the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors sCope of the aUdit of the finanCiaL remuneration have not been made or the part of the statements Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to have nothing to report arising from these matters.
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Corporate governance statement fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to and the Parent Companys circumstances and have the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates arising from our review.
made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report and non-financial information in the annual report to Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information statements and to identify any information that is apparently in the annual report is: materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent materially inconsistent with the information in the audited with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of financial statements: or performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in implications for our report.
the course of performing our audit: or Otherwise misleading Colin Hudson FCA Senior statutory auditor In particular, we are required to consider whether we have for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor acquired during the audit and the directors statement London, United Kingdom that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and 25 February 2014 understandable and whether the annual report appropriately FINANCIAL STATEmENTS
