TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 175 BuSineSS and financial review directOrS rePOrt Financial statements SharehOlder infOrmatiOn independent auditors report to the members of tui travel Plc Report on the Parent Company financial statements Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Our opinion In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent companys under the companies act 2006 we are required to report to you if, affairs as at 30 September 2013: in our opinion: have been properly prepared in accordance with united Kingdom we have not received all the information and explanations we require generally accepted accounting Practice: and for our audit: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent companies act 2006. company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received this opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the What we have audited directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement The Parent Company financial statements, which are prepared with the accounting records and returns.
by tui travel Plc, comprise: we have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Parent company balance sheet as at 30 September 2013: the notes to the Parent Company financial statements, which Directors remuneration include a summary of significant accounting policies and other under the companies act 2006 we are required to report if, in our explanatory information.
opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
we have no exceptions to report arising from this The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their responsibility.
preparation comprises applicable law and united Kingdom accounting Standards united Kingdom generally accepted accounting Practice.
Other information in the annual Report In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have made under iSas uK & ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our a number of subjective judgments, for example in respect of significant opinion, information in the annual report is: accounting estimates.
in making such estimates, they have made materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Parent assumptions and considered future events.
Company financial statements: or Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent been presented elsewhere in the annual report & accounts the with, our knowledge of the Parent company acquired in the course Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
of performing our audit: or These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are is otherwise misleading.
we have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
What an audit of financial statements involves Our responsibilities and those of the Directors we conducted our audit in accordance with international Standards on auditing uK and ireland iSas uK & ireland.
an audit involves as explained more fully in the directors responsibilities Statement set obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial out on page 102, the directors are responsible for the preparation of statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by they give a true and fair view.
this includes an assessment of: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and companys circumstances and have been consistently applied iSas uK & ireland.
those standards require us to comply with the and adequately disclosed: auditing Practices Boards ethical Standards for auditors.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by this report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only the directors: and for the companys members as a body in accordance with chapter 3 the overall presentation of the financial statements.
of Part 16 of the companies act 2006 and for no other purpose.
we do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our Parent Company financial statements and to identify any information prior consent in writing.
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of Other matter performing the audit.
if we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our We have reported separately on the Group financial statements report.
of tui travel Plc for the year ended 30 September 2013.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the companies act 2006 in our opinion: the information given in the Strategic report and the directors Roger fide Peyrecave senior statutory auditor Report for the financial year for which the Parent Company financial for and on behalf of  llP statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent company chartered accountants and Statutory auditors financial statements.
london 9 december 2013 the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the companies act 2006.
