104 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Independent Auditors report to the members of TUI Travel PLC Based on our professional judgement, we set materiality for the Group Report on the Group financial statements financial statements as a whole at 27.5 million.
In arriving at this Our opinion judgement we have had regard to the Groups underlying operating In our opinion the Group financial statements: profit as defined in Note 1 B ii on page 112.
We used the Groups give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at underlying operating profit in order to exclude the volatility from one 30 September 2013 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then off items, acquisition related expenses, impairment of goodwill, ended.
taxation and interest as in our view this is the most relevant measure have been properly prepared in accordance with International for the members of the Company in assessing financial performance.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them Union.
misstatements identified during our audit above 1.4m as well as have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion must be read in the context of what we say below.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group is structured along three business lines being Mainstream, What we have audited Accommodation & Destinations and Specialist & Activity.
The Groups The Group financial statements, which are prepared by TUI Travel PLC, financial statements are a consolidation of its world-wide reporting comprise: units, comprising its operating businesses and centralised functions.
The consolidated income statement for the year ended In establishing the overall Group audit strategy and plan, we 30 September 2013. determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the The consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year reporting units by the group engagement team and by component ended 30 September 2013. auditors from other PwC network firms and from one other firm The consolidated balance sheet as at 30 September 2013. working under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by The consolidated statements of changes in equity and cash flows component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we for the year ended 30 September 2013. needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units so as to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their For each reporting unit we determined whether we required an audit preparation comprises applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the of their complete financial information or whether higher level European Union.
Those where a complete audit was Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have required included the two largest reporting units Mainstream UK & been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report & Accounts the Ireland and Mainstream Germany, because they each make up more Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
than 15% of the Groups revenue or underlying profits.
We included a These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are further 17 reporting units due to the risk characteristics of those units, identified as audited.
and another 18 reporting units so that the major mainstream source markets were covered.
The total of these units gave us coverage of What an audit of financial statements involves 85% of the Groups revenue.
As a consequence of the maturing control We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards environment and in consultation with the Audit Committee, we added on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves a further 14 smaller units, principally made up of Accommodation & obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial Destinations and Specialist & Activity reporting units.
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial In addition, we performed higher level procedures with respect to statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by the remaining reporting units, including specific audit procedures on fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: certain account balances and transactions.
We also performed work on whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups the consolidation of the reporting units.
This gave us the evidence we circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
disclosed: Areas of particular audit focus the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of by the Directors: and subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting the overall presentation of the financial statements.
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in in the Annual Report & Accounts the Annual Report to identify these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to evidence, forming our own independent judgements, and evaluating identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based the disclosures in the financial statements.
on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained for our report.
audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Overview of our audit approach We considered the following areas to be those that required particular Materiality focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all areas of focus We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and to be significant issues in relation to the Group financial statements is on the financial statements as a whole.
indd 104 13 12 2013 17:57 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 105 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAl stAteMents ShAREhOLDER INFORMATION Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the risk Goodwill and intangible impairment assessment We evaluated and challenged the Directors future cash flow forecasts, and The Directors have booked an impairment charge of 188m, leaving a the process by which they were drawn up, including comparing them to the balance of 3.7bn of goodwill and 0.7bn of intangibles on the balance latest Board approved three year plans, and testing the underlying value in sheet.
We focused on this area because the determination of whether or not We challenged an impairment charge for goodwill was necessary involved significant the Directors key assumptions for long term growth rates in the judgements about the future results of many parts of the business, forecasts by comparing them to economic and industry forecasts: and as set out in note 10 to the financial statements.
the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the company and comparable organisations.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around those cash generating units where the impairment review showed they were closest to impairment, including challenging the speed of recovery in the poorer performing businesses.
having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill and intangibles to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising and the adequacy of the disclosures made in note 10 to the financial statements.
entry into service of new aircraft and related accounting We read and understood the clauses in, and subsequent amendments to, Significant costs have been incurred and credits received with respect the original contracts relating to the acquisition of these new aircraft.
We to the introduction of the Boeing 787 aircraft to the fleet.
We focused evaluated the amounts and nature of the sums to be received by the Group on this area because there is judgement involved in the accounting and the costs incurred, or to be incurred, related to the introduction of a treatment of these costs and credits both in terms of timing of new aircraft type and tested a sample of these items.
recognition and their classification in the income statement.
We evaluated the appropriateness of how the Directors have accounted for and presented such items in the financial statements.
Provision for taxes We obtained the latest correspondence between the Group and the We focused on this area because the actual or potential challenges by relevant tax authorities, understood the judgements made by the the tax authorities, particularly in Spain and Germany, involve a level Directors, held meetings with senior management and we consulted the of inherent uncertainty as to the amount of provision.
There is also Groups external advisers and considered their views on these matters.
judgement required with respect to the adequacy of the disclosures We challenged the judgements made by the Directors and evaluated the made in the financial statements.
appropriateness of the provisions and disclosures made.
Maturity of control environment We evaluated the progress of the Groups project that is designed The financial controls, processes and procedures across the Group are to formalise certain controls, policies and processes to improve the at varying stages of maturity and there are a large number of different robustness of the control environment throughout the businesses financial systems in operation.
We focused on this area because financial information at locations Given the on-going nature of this project our audit approach incorporated where the control environment is less mature is inherently more at risk a greater focus on those reporting units with weaker control of misstatement.
These locations tend to be the smaller businesses environments: and operated by the Group.
a greater emphasis on substantive testing of transactions balances and key reconciliations.
After discussion with the Audit Committee we included a greater number of smaller businesses in scope for an audit of their complete financial information.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition We assessed and tested the design and operation of the controls over Most businesses face a risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
revenue systems and also tested key reservation system reconciliations at 30 September 2013.
We checked that revenue had been recognised at the We focused on the timing of recognition of revenue because there is a correct time including testing deferred revenue balances with reference to difference between the timing of receipt of cash from customers and the departure dates.
subsequent recognition of revenue on the holiday departure date and because the reservation systems and interfaces with the accounting Our work included testing a sample of manual journals and assessing the records are complex.
consistency of the application of the revenue recognition policy.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group and interviewed Management in all businesses are in a position of authority that means senior management and the Groups legal, compliance and internal audit they can override internal controls established to prevent fraud or error.
We understood the key trigger points for incentive payments to senior management and examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors.
We also tested significant one-off transactions, performed some unpredictable procedures, and tested manual journal entries and key reconciliations.
indd 105 13 12 2013 17:57 TT14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 106 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Independent Auditors report to the members of TUI Travel PLC continued Going concern Other information in the Annual Report Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our statement, set out on page 101, in relation to going concern.
We have opinion, information in the Annual Report is: nothing to report having performed our review.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group As noted in the Directors statement the Directors have concluded that financial statements: or it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis assumes with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and performing our audit: or that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the is otherwise misleading.
date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit, we We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit however, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, Our responsibilities and those of the Directors these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set continue as a going concern.
out on page 102, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give Opinion on matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 a true and fair view.
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs statements.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matters on which we are required to report by This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for exception the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Adequacy of information and explanations received Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Other matter Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by statements of TUI Travel PLC for the year ended 30 September 2013 law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report to review certain elements of the Directors Remuneration Report.
described as having been audited.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Roger fide Peyrecave senior statutory Auditor Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys for and on behalf of  LLP compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
London On page 102 of the Annual Report, as required by the UK Corporate 9 December 2013 Governance Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On pages 73 to 74, as required by C3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
