Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members ofUBMplc We have audited the Group financial statements of UBM plc for the Our assessment of risks of material misstatement year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the directing the efforts of the engagement team: Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 8.3.
The financial Improper revenue recognition arising from inappropriate cut off : reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is Appropriateness of taxation provisions: applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Capitalisation of software costs: as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Accounting for exceptional items: Assessing the carrying value of goodwill for impairment.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and Our application of materiality our engagement letter dated 31 July 2013.
Our audit work has been We determined materiality for the Group to be 8 million, which is undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those approximately 5% of profit before tax.
This provided a basis for matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this audit procedures.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in page 59, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group an individual account or balance for the Group should be 75% of financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and planning materiality, namely 6 million.
Our objective in adopting this fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Standards for Auditors.
Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.4m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting In addition, the Company has also instructed us to: on qualitative grounds.
Report to you our opinion on whether the information given in the An overview of the scope of our audit Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent Group financial statements, we selected eight components which with the Group financial statements: and represent the principal business units within the Group and account for Review the Directors statement in relation to Going Concern as set 95% of the Groups profit before tax and 88% of the Groups revenue.
out on page 33, which for a premium listed incorporated company is Four of these were subject to a full scope audit and four were subject specified for review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct to a specific scope audit where the extent of audit work was based on Authority.
our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups business operations in that component.
They Scope of the audit of the financial statements were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable above.
For the remaining components, we performed other assurance that the financial statements are free from material procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an misstatement in the Group financial statements.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and The audit work in the eight components was executed at levels of adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting materiality applicable to each individual division, which were lower estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the than Group materiality.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify The Senior Statutory Auditor interacted regularly with the component material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, visited key identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based accounting locations in the US and China, reviewed key working on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in papers and was responsible for the scope and direction of the audit the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any process.
apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members ofUBMplc continued The principal ways in which we responded to the risks described Matters on which we are required to report by exception above included: We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in Improper revenue recognition arising from inappropriate cut off our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: We audited the key controls to ensure recognition was appropriate and applied in line with managements policies and procedures.
We Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial performed substantive procedures and analytical procedures to statements: or validate the movement in revenue and related costs throughout the Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent year and at the year end.
We performed transaction testing, with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of specifically over the release of deferred income to the profit and loss performing our audit: or account to specifically address the risk of inappropriate cut off.
audited a sample of contracts and challenged management in respect of the reasonableness of judgements made affecting the recognition In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified of revenue including multiple element arrangements.
any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is Appropriateness of taxation provisions fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report We challenged the tax exposures estimated by management and the appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the risk analysis associated with these exposures along with claims or Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
assessments made by tax authorities to date.
We audited the Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to calculation and disclosure of deferred tax to ensure compliance with you if, in our opinion: local tax rules and the Groups accounting policies including the impact of complex items such as managements assessment of the likelihood Proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns of the realisation of deferred tax balances.
These assessments relate adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not to the accuracy of management forecasts and the time period over visited by us: or which assets are likely to be recovered.
The financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Capitalisation of software costs We have not received all the information and explanations we We challenged amounts capitalised to ensure these met the require for our audit.
recognition criteria for an intangible asset.
We performed audit procedures to validate the amounts capitalised to ensure that they Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: included only directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce, The part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the and prepare the asset to be capable of operating in the manner Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate intended by management.
Governance Code specified for our review.
We challenged to managements annual assessment of recoverable Where the Company has also instructed us to review: amounts for intangible assets not yet available for use to validate that The Directors statement on page 33 in relation to Going Concern: there were no indicators of impairment.
and Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Accounting for exceptional items Directors remuneration.
We challenged items classified as exceptional to ensure that the nature of each item is consistent with the criteria set out in the Groups Other matter accounting policy as described in note 3.5 and assessed the We have reported separately on the parent company financial consistency in the application of the exceptional classification with statements of UBM plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on previous accounting periods.
We performed audit procedures on both the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is the amount and related disclosure for all exceptional items deemed described as having been audited.
Alison Duncan Assessing the carrying value of goodwill for impairment For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, We challenged managements assumptions used in its impairment London model for goodwill as set out in note 4.1.
We focused on the 28 February 2014 appropriateness of the methodology applied, discount rates, implied revenue and EBIT multiples.
We challenged management on cash 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the UBM plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of flow forecasts, implied growth rates and we assessed the historical these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any accuracy of cash flow forecasting.
We reviewed and challenged changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were managements sensitivity analysis particularly in relation to those cash initially presented on the website.
generating units with reduced headroom above carrying value.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
64 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
