78 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Independent auditors report Independent auditors report To the members of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Opinion on financial statements of In our opinion: Ultra Electronics Holdings plc the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 49.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Directors Report on page 58 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect misstatement on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition Revenue recognition has been deemed a risk Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the area, specifically in relation to: design and implementation of controls over long-term contract accounting.
We reviewed Significant long-term contracts, due to the the contract risk registers and evidence for the financial effects of judgements, including progress made against the contract such as future milestone success, associated with milestone completion, to confirm that revenue determining the percentage of contract and profit recognised to date are based on the completion at the balance sheet date and risks current best estimate of the degree of contract associated with completing the contract: and completion.
We understood and challenged Delivery of goods, due to the complex managements assumptions by referring to contractual terms with regards to the transfer evidence including signed contract terms and of risk and reward that arise within the latest project status reports, and discussed Aerospace and Defence industry and therefore contract progress and future risks with contract the appropriate point at which revenue should engineers.
We also assessed the reliability of be recognised.
management estimates through consideration of the historical accuracy of prior period management estimates.
For each contract selected for testing, we made enquiries as to any unusual contract terms or side agreements separate to the original contract.
In response to the risk of inappropriate revenue recognition arising from complex contractual terms, we reviewed contractual evidence to understand how the specific terms in respect of the transfer or risk and reward had been met.
We then performed a sample test of sales recognised either side of the year end to assess whether the appropriate terms of the relevant contracts had been satisfied and that the risks and rewards associated with the contract had passed to the customer.
We used external evidence, such as shipping documentation or evidence of client acceptance, to confirm that revenue had been recognised in the appropriate period.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 79 Independent auditors report continued Our assessment of risks of material Risk How the scope of our audit responded to misstatement continued the risk Goodwill and other intangible assets There is a risk regarding potential impairment We challenged the assumptions used by over the valuation of goodwill and intangible management within their annual impairment assets arising on historical acquisitions.
assessment through benchmarking the short and long term growth rates to independently available In managements impairment assessment there data, peer group analysis, our understanding of are a number of key judgements in determining the secured orders underpinning the Groups the recoverable amount, including identification cashflow forecasts, and historical performance of of cash generating units, growth rates in future the business.
In addition, valuation specialists cashflow forecasts and discount rates applied to within the audit team provided additional these forecasts.
challenge over the discount rate applied to these cashflows through the use of external confirmation and benchmarking.
We independently identified the cash generating units within the Group based on a review of the cashflows internally reported by management, and our understanding of the Group structure.
Having audited the assumptions within managements annual impairment assessment, we checked the arithmetical accuracy of the impairment model using these assumptions.
Provisions There is judgement required in respect of We recalculated and assessed managements potential provisions required on long-term estimates for the provisions in conjunction with support arrangements and warranties, and our understanding of the potential liability as complex mission critical product manufacturing.
set out in contract terms.
Consequently we have deemed the In respect of warranties, we assessed the level appropriateness and completeness of provisions of provisioning by verifying the actual failure made by management in respect of product costs incurred to date and the products in warranties and other provisions to be a risk.
We used external evidence to evaluate this further, including sales data and contract terms together with any correspondence with third parties in respect of product failures and claims.
In response to other provisions, we circularised the Groups external legal advisors and reviewed legal costs incurred in the year to confirm the completeness of legal cases to which the Group is party.
Through external evidence including submitted legal advice and discussion with management, we sought to corroborate the basis for the Groups expections over likely outcomes and their subsequent quantification of the related provisions.
Introduction 80 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Independent auditors report continued Our assessment of risks of material Risk How the scope of our audit responded to misstatement continued the risk Pensions The Group operates four defined benefit pension We included pension specialists within our audit schemes, for which there is judgement in team to assess the appropriateness of the determining the IAS 19 valuation as recorded at assumptions and methodology used to value the balance sheet date.
the defined benefit pension schemes at the balance sheet date.
The valuation is based on a number of assumptions on both a micro and a macro-economic level as In addition, we circularised the independent disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
actuary and investment managers responsible for managing the pension fund to confirm the source inputs into the pension valuation.
This confirmed the completeness of the pension assets and the valuation for which we further agreed a sample to publically available asset valuations.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on pages 60 to 62.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 8 million, which represents 7% of underlying pre-tax profit, and 2% of equity.
Underlying pre-tax profit was identified as being the main indicator of trading business performance, and represents statutory pre-tax profit adding back impairment of goodwill, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, adjustments to deferred consideration net of acquisition costs, defined benefit pension interest charges, unwinding of discounts on provisions and the revaluation of financial instruments based on their fair values.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 160,000 as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit at fifteen of the Groups twenty principal business units, all of which were subject to full audit.
In addition the remaining five business units were subject to an audit of specific account transactions and account balances where the extent of our testing was focused on our Group audit risks and our assessment of the risk of material misstatement.
The twenty locations represent the principal business units within the Groups reportable segments and account for 87% of the Groups net assets, 91% of the Groups revenue and 93% of the Groups underlying operating profit.
They also provided an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the twenty units was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity, all of which were lower than Group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team follows a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the significant overseas components locations at least once every three years.
Every year, regardless of whether we have visited or not, we include the component audit partner and other senior members of the component audit team in our team briefing, direct the scope of their work for the purposes of our Group audit, discuss their risk assessment and review documentation of the findings from their work.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the In our opinion: Companies Act 2006 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 81 Independent auditors report continued Matters on which we are required to report Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records by exception Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for and auditor the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any Notes: An audit does not provide assurance information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the on the maintenance and integrity of the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the Directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Kerr Mitchell FCA, Senior Statutory Auditor Legislation in the United Kingdom governing for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP the preparation and dissemination of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor financial statements differs from legislation Reading, United Kingdom in other jurisdictions.
