INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT NETHERLANDS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
TO: THE GENERAL MEETING OF UNILEVER N. V. OPINION WITH RESPECT TO THE CONSOLIDATED REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true statements 2013 as set out on pages 90 to 135 which are part of and fair view of the financial position of Unilever Group as at the Annual Report and Accounts 2013 of the Unilever Group for 31December 2013, and of its result and its cash flows for the year the year ended 31 December 2013, which comprise the then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of Standards as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in International Accounting Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book equity, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash flow 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
statement and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and SEPARATE REPORT ON COMPANY ACCOUNTS other explanatory information.
We have reported separately on the company accounts of Unilever N. V. for the year ended 31 December 2013.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY The Directors are responsible for the preparation and fair OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH presentation of these consolidated financial statements in For an overview of our joint audit approach, which includes accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as certain thresholds set for materiality, an overview of the scope of adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International our audit and areas of particular audit focus, we refer to the Accounting Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the paragraph Overview of our audit approach in the Independent Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report of the Auditors Report to the Members of Unilever PLC as set out on Directors in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil page87.
Furthermore, the Directors are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY preparation of the consolidated financial statements that are free REQUIREMENTS from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Pursuant to the legal requirement under Section 2: 393 sub 5 at eand f of the Dutch Civil Code, we have no deficiencies to report AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITY as a result of our examination whether the Report of the Directors Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated comprising the sections Strategic Report and Governance, to the financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on 9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the information as required Auditing.
This requires that we comply with ethical requirements under Section 2: 392 sub 1 at b-h has been annexed.
Further we and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance report that the Report of the Directors, to the extent we can about whether the consolidated financial statements are free assess, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements from material misstatement.
as required by Section 2: 391 sub 4 of the Dutch CivilCode.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors Amsterdam, 4 March 2014 judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material  Accountants N. V. misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the Original has been signed by P J van Mierlo RA auditor considers internal control relevant to the companys preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
86 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT UNITED KINGDOM INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH TO THE MEMBERS OF UNILEVER PLC MATERIALITY We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and OUR OPINION on the financial statements as a whole.
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality 31 December 2013 and of the consolidated profit and cash for the consolidated financial statements as a whole to be 330 flows for the year then ended: million.
This represents approximately 5% of profit before tax.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them European Union: and misstatements identified during our audit above 25 million as have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT remainder of the report.
The Group is primarily structured and monitored across four key categories being Personal Care, Foods, Refreshment and Home SEPARATE OPINION IN RELATION TO IFRS AS ISSUED Care.
The consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of BYTHE IASB the Groups reporting units which include operating businesses, As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, centralised functions and supply chain entities.
the Group, in addition to applying IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS as issued by the In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
determined the type of work that needed to be performed at reporting units.
We also determined the level of involvement we In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be IFRS as issued by the IASB.
able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED financial statements as a whole.
The consolidated financial statements, which are prepared by Unilever PLC, comprise: Accordingly, we identified 11 operating businesses which, in our the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: view, required an audit of their complete financial information, the consolidated income statement and consolidated either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
We also statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: performed specific audit procedures on inventory at the Groups the consolidated statement of changes in equity and three supply chain entities and specific risk based procedures on consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: and other financial statement line items in a further four operating the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
businesses and three corporate centre entities.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their This, together with additional procedures performed on preparation comprises applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the centralised functions and at the Group level, gave us the evidence European Union.
we needed for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards AREAS OF PARTICULAR AUDIT FOCUS on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and significant accounting estimates that involved making disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assumptions and considering future events that are inherently assurance that the financial statements are free from material uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, assessment of: forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups the financial statements.
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered by the Directors: and necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information combination of both.
in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited consolidated financial We considered the following areas to be those that required statements and to identify any information that is apparently particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or those matters that they considered to be significant issues in inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
relation to the financial statements is set out on page 53.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements 87 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT UNITED KINGDOM CONTINUED AREA OF FOCUS HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS Provisions and contingences indirect tax provisions We obtained a detailed understanding of the significant potential Due to the complexity of certain local tax regimes, particularly in exposures and challenged the appropriateness of managements emerging markets, the Group has potential exposures relating to assumptions and resulting provisions.
We assessed the levels of indirect taxes.
provisions having regard to correspondence between Unilever and local tax authorities and, where relevant, third party legal opinions.
We focused on this area because certain exposures and the related provisions recorded within the financial statements are material, involve a high level of judgement and are subject to uncertainty.
Refer to note 19 to the financial statements.
Provisions and contingences direct tax provisions We obtained a detailed understanding of the Groups tax strategy The Directors are required to exercise significant judgement when and assessed key technical tax risks related to business and determining the appropriate amount to provide in respect of legislative developments including reading the Groups transfer potential direct tax exposures relating to challenges by the tax pricing arrangements.
We recalculated direct tax provisions and authorities on inter-company transfer pricing arrangements and determined whether the calculations were in line with the Groups global supply chains, particularly in emerging markets.
Refer to methodology and principles had been applied consistently.
We note 19 to the financial statements.
challenged the key underlying assumptions, particularly in territories where new tax structures are in place, having due regard We focused on this area because changes in assumptions can materially to correspondence between Unilever and local tax authorities.
affect the levels of provisions recorded in the financial statements.
Pensions obligations and assumptions For the four largest defined benefit pension plans, we considered and In many countries the Group operates defined benefit pension plans, challenged the reasonableness of key actuarial assumptions including giving rise to pension plan liabilities.
pension increase, salary increases, inflation, discount rates and mortality, using benchmark ranges based on market conditions and We focused on this area because of the magnitude of the pension plan expectations at the balance sheet date and comparison across the wider liability in the context of the overall balance sheet.
We also confirmed whether the methods used by the balance requires a significant level of judgement and technical management to determine key assumptions had been consistently expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
Changes in key applied year-on-year and evaluated the rationale for any changes in assumptions can have a material impact on the liability recorded.
We tested the reconciliation of the opening to closing liability Refer to note 4B to the financial statements.
for accuracy taking into account the movements in key assumptions over the year and any changes made to benefits provided within the schemes.
Goodwill and intangible assets impairment testing We evaluated the Directors cash flow forecasts: including The Directors assess the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite comparing them to the latest Board approved budgets.
We lived intangible assets and conduct an annual impairment review.
challenged the Directors key assumptions, including the long term Refer to note 9 to the financial statements.
growth rate and the discount rate.
We performed sensitivity analysis around these assumptions to ascertain the extent of change that We focused on this area because of the materiality of these assets, either individually or collectively would be required for the relevant particularly in the three cash generating units relating to Foods, and asset to be impaired.
We then considered the likelihood of such because it involves complex and subjective judgements by the movement in those key assumptions arising.
Directors about near term and long term sales growth rates, commodity prices and the projected operating margins.
Fraud in revenue recognition We challenged the appropriateness of managements revenue ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition policies, particularly regarding the recording of sales recognition because of the pressure management may feel to around the year end date.
We performed a combination of testing the achieve the planned results.
financial controls and substantive testing of revenue recorded during the year, using sampling and data auditing techniques, and testing of Unilevers focus on revenue targets as a key performance measure sales transactions and credit notes around the year end date to creates incentive for revenue to be recorded in the incorrect period.
determine whether the criteria for recording revenue had been met.
Therefore, we focused on whether transactions have been recorded We performed trend analysis on weekly sales and returns reports to in the period in which the Group becomes entitled to record revenue.
identify unusual patterns of sales transactions before the year end date and returns after the year end date.
We tested manual adjustments impacting revenue to determine whether these had occurred in the period and met the Groups revenue recognition policies.
Risk of management override of internal controls We tested key reconciliations and manual journal entries.
We ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We incorporated a number of unpredictable audit procedures into our work, including the audit of certain operations or balances at short notice.
88 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 GOING CONCERN OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in statement, set out on page 85, in relation to going concern.
We our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: have nothing to report having performed our review.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited consolidated financial statements: or As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the consolidated inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
course of performing our audit: or The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate is otherwise misleading.
resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE DIRECTORS ability to continue as a going concern.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 85, the Directors are responsible for OPINION ON MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for ACT 2006 being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements are prepared is consistent with consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable the consolidated financial statements.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO Auditors.
REPORT BY EXCEPTION This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and ADEQUACY OF INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other in our opinion we have not received all the information and purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to report arising from this responsibility.
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, OTHER MATTER in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration We have reported separately on the parent company financial specified by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules statements of Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2013 we are required to review certain elements of the report to and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
We have is described as having been audited.
no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the John Baker Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Senior Statutory Auditor Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate for and on behalf of  LLP Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors performed our review.
London 4 March 2014 On page 85 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 54, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements 89
