AVEVA Group plc | 54 Annual report 2013 Financial statements independent auditors report to the members of AVEVA Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of AVEVA Group plc opinion on finanCial StatementS for the year ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the Consolidated In our opinion the Group financial statements: income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated statement B give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs of changes in shareholders equity, the Consolidated cash flow as at 31 March 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: statement and the related notes 1 to 31.
The financial reporting B have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable as adopted by the European Union: and law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
B have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the opinion on other matter preSCribeD Companys members those matters we are required to state to them by theCompanieSaCt 2006 in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to the financial year for which the Group financial statements are anyone other than the Company and the Companys members prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
matterS on whiCh we are requireD to report by exCeption reSpeCtive reSponSibilitieS of DireCtorS anD auDitor We have nothing to report in respect of the following: As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 53, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they if, in our opinion: give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express B certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with are not made: or applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing B we have not received all the information and explanations Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: SCope of the auDit of the finanCial StatementS B the Directors statement, set out on page 50, in relation An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and to going concern: and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable B the part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 30 to 37 assurance that the financial statements are free from material relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate review: and to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant B certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall on Directors remuneration.
presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual other matter report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent We have reported separately on the parent Company financial material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider statements of AVEVA Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 the implications for our report.
and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
BOB FORSyTh SEnIOR STATUTORy AUDITOR for and on behalf of Ernst & young LLP, Statutory Auditor Cambridge 23 May 2013 WWW.
