Vedanta Resources plc of Vedanta Resources plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the Parent Company Balance sheet and the a s a t 3 1 Ma rc h 2 013: that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law have been properly prepared in accordance with United and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the parent Companys members, as a body, in accordance with chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been Act 2006 undertaken so that we might state to the Companys In our opinion: members those matters we are required to state to them in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest audited has been properly prepared in accordance with extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume the Companies Act 2006: and responsibility to anyone other than the parent Company the information given in the Directors Report for the and the parent Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
prepared is consistent with the parent Company Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the We have nothing to report in respect of the following m at te rs w h ere the C om p an ie s A ct 200 6 r eq ui re s u s t o report t o y ou if, in our o p ini on: responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the p are n t C om pany, o r retu rn s a fide qua te f o r our audi t h av e applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK not been received from branches not visited by us: or and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and re tu rn s: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts b y l aw are n o t m a fide : o r we ha five n o t r ecei five d all the in fo rm a tio n a n d from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or explanations we require for our audit.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Other Matter Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of statements of Vedanta Resources plc for the year ended 31 M arc h 201 3. information in the annual report to identify material for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP C ha rte re d Acco un ta nt s a nd S tatuto ry A u di to r to identify any information that is apparently materially London, United Kingdom incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 15 May 2013 knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
184 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
