Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Vedanta Resources plc Resources plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow ended: Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopt ed by t he E urop ea n Union : a n d framework that has been applied in their preparation is have been prepared in accordance with the requirements applicable law and International Financial Reporting of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Act 2006 Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys We have nothing to report in respect of the following: members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities by law are not made: or Statement, the Directors are responsible for the we have not received all the information and e xp lan at io ns w e r eq uire for o ur audi t. responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: th e Di rectors s ta te ment, c on ta in ed w ith in t h e International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Directors Report, in relation to going concern: standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices the part of the Corporate Governance Statement Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts certain elements of the report to shareholders by the B oa rd on D ire c tor s r e mu n era tion.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Other Matter error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the We have reported separately on the parent Company accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and ended 31 March 2013 and on the information in the D ire ct or s R e mu n era ti on Re port t hat is d es cri be d a s h a vin g accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the been audited.
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the for and o n be half of fide lo itt e L LP apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor consider the implications for our report.
London, United Kingdom 15 May 2013 112 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
