89 corporate governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Vesuvius plc Only of expected future profits and the ability of the of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and Opinions and conclusions arising from Group to offset any of its accumulated losses uncertain tax positions.
our audit against these expected profits.
This is one of 1 Our opinion on the financial Provisions 56.1 million : the key judgemental areas on which our audit statements is unmodified Refer to page 62 Audit Committee Report, concentrated.
We have audited the financial statements of pages 98 and 136 accounting policy and page Vesuvius plc for the year ended 31 December Our response: In this area, our audit 136 financial disclosures.
2013 which comprise the Group income procedures included, among others, using our The risk: Provisions are measured at the statement, the Group statement of comprehensive own tax specialists to assist in assessing and Directors best estimate of the Groups ultimate income, the Group statement of cash flows, the challenging the assumptions and judgements liability to settle an obligation arising from a past Group and Company balance sheets, the Group made by the Directors.
In assessing the level event.
In providing for known or probable costs, statement of changes in equity, and the related of deferred tax asset balances recognised in resulting from indirect tax, legal, regulatory, notes.
In our opinion: the Group balance sheet we compared the or environmental requirements, the Directors the financial statements give a true and fair assumptions used in respect of future taxable use their judgement, experience, and where view of the state of the Groups and of the profit forecasts in respect of the relevant appropriate receive external advice, in order parent companys affairs as at 31 December components to the Groups long-term forecasts.
to make provisions in the financial statements 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year We considered, amongst other things, historical for such matters.
This is one of the key areas then ended: levels of US tax profits, the historical accuracy on which our audit concentrated as a result of of forecasts, and the growth forecasts used by the impact that a material legal, regulatory, or the Group financial statements have been the Group.
This included critically assessing environmental claim might have on the Groups properly prepared in accordance with the assumptions and judgements made by the financial position and result for the year.
International Financial Reporting Standards Directors in those growth forecasts, by using as adopted by the European Union: Our response: In this area our audit our knowledge of the Group and the industry procedures included, among others: obtaining the parent company financial statements in which it operates and by comparing certain an understanding from the Directors of the have been properly prepared in accordance assumptions to externally derived data.
We also basis for their best estimates, challenging with UK Accounting Standards: and assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures the basis used with reference to the latest setting out the basis of the deferred tax balance the financial statements have been prepared available corroborative information and in light and the level of estimation involved.
in accordance with the requirements of the of our understanding of the business gained Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Current tax provisions 45.0 million : throughout the audit process, and obtaining Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Refer to page 62 Audit Committee Report, third party confirmations.
In addition we met IAS Regulation.
page 98 accounting policy and page 105 with the Groups in-house legal counsel to financial disclosures.
2 Our assessment of risks of material discuss the nature of ongoing claims, and misstatement The risk: Provisions for tax contingencies obtained formal confirmations from the Groups In arriving at our audit opinion above on require the Directors to make judgements and external legal advisers for all significant the financial statements the risks of material estimates in relation to income tax issues and litigation.
We also assessed whether the misstatement that had the greatest effect on our exposures.
This is one of the key judgemental Groups disclosures about provisions, contingent audit were as follows: areas that our audit concentrated on due to the liabilities, and the movements in the year were Group operating in a number of tax jurisdictions, appropriate.
Recognition of a US deferred tax asset the complexities of transfer pricing and other 29.2 million : 3 Our application of materiality and an international tax legislation, and the time Refer to page 62 Audit Committee Report, overview of the scope of our audit taken for tax matters to be agreed with the tax page 98 accounting policy and page 105 The materiality for the Group financial authorities.
statements as a whole was set at 7.0 million.
Our response: In this area our audit procedures This has been determined with reference to a The risk: The Group has recognised a deferred included, among others, the use of our own benchmark of Group profit before taxation of tax asset in respect of unutilised losses and global tax specialists to assess the Groups which it represents 6.7%, which we consider other temporary differences arising in the US.
tax positions, and its correspondence with to be one of the principal considerations for In addition the Group has losses and other the relevant tax authorities to analyse and members of the Company in assessing the temporary differences for which no deferred tax challenge the assumptions used to determine financial performance of the Group.
asset has been recognised in these financial tax provisions based on our knowledge and We agreed with the Audit Committee to report statements.
The recognition or otherwise of a experience of the application of international to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements deferred tax asset in respect of these losses and local legislation by the relevant authorities we identified through our audit with a value and other temporary differences is based on and courts.
We also considered the adequacy in excess of 0.4 million, in addition to other judgement in respect of the timing and quantum www.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 Vesuvius plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 audit misstatements below that threshold which we have not received all the information and 4 Our opinion on other matters we believe warranted reporting on qualitative explanations we require for our audit.
prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 grounds.
is unmodified Under the Listing Rules we are required In our opinion: Audits for Group reporting purposes were to review: performed by component auditors in the the Directors statement, set out on page 84, the part of the Directors Remuneration following countries: Germany, the UK, in relation to going concern: and Report to be audited has been properly Switzerland, India, China, Mexico, Poland, prepared in accordance with the Companies the part of the Corporate Governance Belgium, and Italy.
In addition, specified audit Act 2006: and Statement on page 54 to 60 relating to procedures were performed for Group reporting the Companys compliance with the nine the information given in the Strategic Report purposes by component auditors in the US and provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate and the Directors Report for the financial Brazil.
Combined, these audits and specified Governance Code specified for our review.
year for which the financial statements are audit procedures covered 72% of the Groups prepared is consistent with the financial We have nothing to report in respect of the revenue, 74% of the Groups profit before statements.
tax, and 83% of the Groups total assets.
The segmental disclosure in Note 5 sets out the 5 We have nothing to report in respect of Scope of report and responsibilities individual significance of specific geographical the matters on which we are required As explained more fully in the Directors locations.
to report by exception Responsibilities Statement set out on page Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required The audits and procedures undertaken for 88, the Directors are responsible for the to report to you if, based on the knowledge we Group reporting purposes at the key reporting preparation of the financial statements and for acquired during our audit, we have identified components of the Group were all performed being satisfied that they give a true and fair other information in the annual report that to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the view.
A description of the scope of an audit contains a material inconsistency with either Group audit team.
These local materiality levels of financial statements is provided on the that knowledge or the financial statements, were set individually for each component and Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
a material misstatement of fact, or that is ranged from 0.1 million to 6.7 million.
This report is otherwise misleading.
made solely to the Companys members as a Detailed instructions were sent to all the auditors In particular, we are required to report to you if: body and is subject to important explanations in these locations.
These instructions covered and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, the significant areas that should be covered by we have identified material inconsistencies published on our website at www.
com uk the component audit teams which included the between the knowledge we acquired during auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated relevant risks of material misstatement detailed our audit and the Directors statement that into this report as if set out in full and should be above and set out the information required they consider that the annual report and read to provide an understanding of the purpose to be reported back to the Group audit team.
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, of this report, the work we have undertaken and The Group audit team visited key reporting balanced and understandable and provides the basis of our opinions.
components in the following countries: Brazil, the information necessary for shareholders China, the UK, the US, Germany, and Mexico.
to assess the Groups performance, business Telephone meetings were also held with the model and strategy: or auditors at these locations and all other key the Audit Committee Report does not Paul Korolkiewicz Senior Statutory Auditor reporting component locations that were not appropriately address matters communicated for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor visited.
by us to the Audit Committee.
Chartered Accountants For those components for which audits or 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL Under the Companies Act 2006 we are specified audit procedures for Group reporting 4 March 2014 required to report to you if, in our opinion: purposes are not performed, the Group audit adequate accounting records have not been kept team communicates with the component by the parent company, or returns adequate for auditors regularly throughout the year our audit have not been received from branches particularly in relation to any control findings not visited by us: or that may impact on the overall strategy for the parent company financial statements the Group audit.
Local statutory audits are and the part of the Directors Remuneration performed at the majority of these components Report to be audited are not in agreement but generally these are to be completed after the with the accounting records and returns: or date of this report.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or www.
