Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Independent auditors report Independent auditors report Opinions and conclusions arising In respect of adjustments relating to fully As presented in note 14 of the financial fromour audit absorbed manufacturing costs our audit statements, the Groups net deficit was Opinion on financial statements procedures included, among others: 3.6million.
Small changes in assumptions We have audited the financial statements of challenging the Groups assessment and estimates used to value the Groups Victrex plc for the year ended 30 September ofthe normal levels of production for netpension deficit would have a 2013 set out on pages 68 to 92.
In our opinion: absorption costing purposes by comparison significant effect on the results and to actual and budgeted levels of production financial position of the Group.
In this the financial statements give a true and over thepast two years: understanding area our audit procedures included, fair view of the state of the Groups and and corroborating the impact of among others, testing of the controls over of the parent companys affairs as at manufacturing variances in relation to the maintenance of each schemes 30September 2013 and of the Groups production output and comparing actual membership data as well as sample profit for the year then ended: production output levels to standard and testing from those data to the source the Group financial statements have historical levels: and recalculating purchase documentation establishing the been properly prepared in accordance price variances by reference to actual obligation to members and vice versa.
with International Financial Reporting purchase invoice costs.
With the support of our own actuarial Standards as adopted by the European specialists, we then challenged the key In assessing provisions for slow moving Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : assumptions applied to those data to and obsolete inventories our audit determine the Groups net deficit, being the parent company financial statements procedures included, among others: thediscount rate, inflation rate, rate of have been properly prepared in accordance testing the Groups controls designed future salary increases, and mortality life with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as toidentify slow moving and obsolete expectancy.
This included a comparison applied in accordance with the provisions inventories: comparison, by product of these key assumptions against of the Companies Act 2006: and grade, of inventory levels to sales data externally derived data.
We also tocorroborate whether slow moving the financial statements have been considered the adequacy of the Groups andobsolete inventories had been prepared in accordance with the disclosures in respect of the sensitivity appropriately identified by the Group, requirements of the Companies Act ofthe deficits tothese assumptions and provided for based on expected 2006 and, as regards the Group financial seenote 14. recoveries: and attended the year-end statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
stock take to consider the extent of slow Our application of materiality and an Our assessment of risks of material moving and obsolete inventories.
We overview of the scope of our audit misstatement considered realisations of slow moving The materiality for the Group financial In arriving at our audit opinion above on inventories during the year and post year statements as a whole was set at 7.5m.
thefinancial statements the risks of material end and compared these to the Groups This has been calculated with reference to misstatement that had the greatest effect expected recoveries for slow moving abenchmark of Group profit before taxation on the audit were as follows: inventories at theyear-end date.
which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company Valuation of inventories: The Group Retirement benefit obligations: As detailed in assessing thefinancial performance inventory balance at the year-end date in note 14, the Group operates defined oftheGroup.
is51.1m and a number of estimates benefit pension schemes.
A valuation of areinvolved in arriving at the valuation the scheme liabilities is provided by an We agreed with the Audit Committee to ofinventories relating to fully absorbed external actuary on behalf of the Group report to it all corrected and uncorrected manufacturing costs and the assessment based on various assumptions set out misstatements we identified through our of provisions against cost in respect of innote 14. audit with a value in excess of 380,000, slow moving and obsolete inventories.
inaddition to other audit misstatements Further as detailed in the accounting This risk is highlighted in the Audit below that threshold that we believe policies included within note 14 and in Committee Report on page 47. warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
the Audit Committee Report on page 47, significant estimates are made in valuing the Groups post-retirement defined benefit schemes.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 65 Independent auditors report continued Opinions and conclusions arising Matters on which we are required Under the Listing Rules we are required fromour audit continued toreport by exception toreview: Our application of materiality and an Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required the Directors statement, set out on overview of the scope of our audit to report to you if, based on the knowledge page63, in relation to going concern: continued we acquired during our audit, we have Audits for Group reporting purposes were identified other information in the annual the part of the Corporate Governance performed at three key reporting components report that contains a material inconsistency Statement on pages 41 to 47 relating to inthe UK and the USA by the Group audit with either that knowledge or the financial the Companys compliance with the nine team, and review procedures for Group statements, a material misstatement of fact, provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate reporting purposes were completed by or that is otherwise misleading.
Governance Code specified for our component auditors in Japan.
This Group review: and In particular, we are required to report to reporting covered 96% of total Group you if: certain elements of the report revenue: 95% of Group profit before toshareholders by the Board on taxation: and 99% of total Group assets.
we have identified material inconsistencies Directors remuneration.
The segment disclosures in note 2 set between the knowledge we acquired outthe individual significance of a during our audit and the Directors We have nothing to report in respect specificcountry.
statement that they consider that the oftheabove responsibilities.
annual report and financial statements The audits and review procedures taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Scope of report and responsibilities undertaken for Group reporting purposes understandable and provides the As explained more fully in the Directors atthe key reporting components of the information necessary for shareholders Responsibilities Statement, set out on Group were performed to materiality levels to assess the Groups performance, page64, the Directors are responsible for set individually for each component which business model and strategy: or the preparation of the financial statements ranged from 2.0m to 4.9m.
and for being satisfied that they give a true the Audit Committee Report included Detailed instructions were sent to all and fair view.
A description of the scope of within the Corporate Governance theauditors in these locations.
These an audit of financial statements is provided sectionofthe Annual Report and instructions covered the significant areas on the Financial Reporting Councils website Accounts does not appropriately that should be covered by the component at www.
address matterscommunicated auditors which included the relevant risks Thisreport is made solely to the Companys byusto theAuditCommittee.
ofmaterial misstatement detailed above members as a body and is subject to and set out the information required to be Under the Companies Act 2006 we are important explanations and disclaimers reported back to the Group audit team.
required to report to you if, in our opinion: regarding our responsibilities, published onour website at www.
com uk Opinion on other matters prescribed by adequate accounting records have not auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated the Companies Act 2006 been kept by the parent company, or into this report as if set out infull and In our opinion: returns adequate for our audit have not should be read to provide an understanding been received from branches not visited the part of the Directors Remuneration of the purpose of this report, the work we by us: or Report to be audited has been properly have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
prepared in accordance with the the parent company financial statements Companies Act 2006: and and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement the information given in the Strategic with the accounting records and returns: or Report and Directors Report for the Stuart Burdass Senior Statutory Auditor financial year for which the financial certain disclosures of Directors for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, statements are prepared is consistent remuneration specified by law are not Statutory Auditor with the financial statements.
made: or Chartered Accountants St James Square, Manchester, M2 6DS we have not received all the information 9 December 2013 and explanations we require for our audit.
66 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com O Ove ver rv viie ew w St Str ra at te eg giic c r re ep po or rt t G Go ov ver ern na anc nce e Fi Fin na anc nciia all s st ta at tem emen ent ts s S Sh ha ar re eho holld fide er r i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Maintaining our financial performance with s st tr ro on ng p g pr ro ofi fit ta ab bili ilit ty y a an nd d m ma ar rg gin ins s and record cash generation Financial statements 68 C onsolidated income statement 68 C onsolidated statement ofcomprehensive income 69 Balance sheets 70 Cash flow statements 71 Consolidated statement of changes inequity 72 C ompany statement of changes in equity 73 N otes to the financial statements Shareholder information 93 Five year financial summary 94 N otice of Annual General Meeting 100 Financial calendar and advisers www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 67
