Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE WEIR GROUP PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of The Weir Group PLC for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 116, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 3 January 2014 and of its profit for the 53 weeks then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team: acquisition accounting, focussing on the fair value adjustments made on the 2013 acquisition of Mathena Inc: the assessment of the valuation applied to contingent consideration, focussing on the consideration related to the 2013 acquisition of Mathena Inc: valuation of inventory, focussing on the excess and obsolescence risk associated with the North American Oil and Gas pressure pumping businesses: the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets, focussing on the reassessment and disclosure of the change in CGUs applied during the year and the carrying values of intangibles related to the renewables businesses: adequacy of the Groups liability provisioning, including those relating to legal or regulatory obligations: the Groups exposure to significant tax risks and the level of provisions recognised, given the estimation uncertainty in respect of settlements with tax authorities around the world: and the risk of fraud and management override of internal controls, specifically in relation to revenue and profit recognition on significant construction contracts across the Group.
Our application of materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These provide a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group to be 20m 2012: 20m, which is below 5% of forecast profit before tax from continuing operations.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all individual unadjusted audit differences and significant judgemental items which either affect the Income Statement in excess of 0.5m 2012: 0.5m, or the Balance Sheet in excess of 2m 2012: 2m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our professional judgement, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we selected twenty one 2012: nineteen locations which represent the principal business units within the Groups three reportable segments and account for 69% 2012: 70% of the revenue, 73% 2012: 77% of the profit before tax from continuing operations and 75% 2012: 72% of the net assets.
Three 2012: two of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining eighteen 2012: seventeen were subject to a partial audit where the extent of audit work was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups business operations at those locations.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 117 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE WEIR GROUP PLC Continued The audit work at the twenty one locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
In addition, certain central reporting entities and Group functions including those covering treasury, taxation, pensions and the Parent Company were subject to a full scope audit.
For the remaining locations, we performed other procedures to confirm there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits and video-conferencing that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits those locations with greatest exposure to the risks of material misstatements noted above.
Our response to the risks of material misstatement identified above included the following procedures: Acquisition accounting For the acquisition of Mathena Inc in the year, we reviewed the purchase contracts to understand key terms and conditions, reviewed due diligence accounting checklists prepared by management or their independent advisors and the disclosures proposed for the financial statements.
We challenged managements assumptions in their assessment of the acquisition fair values of other assets and liabilities, focussing on the adjustments to provisions, properties and taxation.
We engaged valuation specialists to challenge the key judgements and models applied in the recognition and measurement of separately identifiable intangible assets.
The fair valuation assessment of contingent consideration We obtained and reviewed the purchase contracts for the Mathena Inc acquisition, along with current and forecasted operating results for that entity.
We challenged managements current fair valuation assessment of the contingent consideration balance, and considered any impact on the carrying value of related goodwill or intangible balances.
We reviewed the presentation and disclosure within the financial statements of the contingent consideration balance and the adjustments made during the year.
Valuation of inventory Focussing on the North American Oil and Gas pressure pumping business, we performed an aged analysis of the inventory, comparing specific inventory lines against market activity as well as current and forecast sales to identify excess or obsolete inventory exposures.
We also considered the application of the inventory provisioning accounting policy, including challenging the appropriateness of assumptions made by management, through comparison of the provisioning made at a local and Group level against our analysis of excess or obsolete inventory.
The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets We challenged managements impairment testing of intangible assets including projected cash flows and perpetuity rates and sensitivities performed, and engaged our valuations specialists to review the discount rate assumptions.
We considered potential indicators of impairment for each Group entity with associated intangible assets, focussing on the specific renewables businesses noted as having indicators of impairment.
We considered a reasonable change in impairment assumptions to determine whether an impairment charge was required.
We challenged managements process for reassessing the appropriateness of the CGUs during the year, and their disclosure of the basis for this change in the year.
Adequacy of the Groups liability provisioning We have reviewed the assumptions and methodologies applied behind specific provision calculations, and compared against our expectations.
Where applicable, we have agreed projected costs against historical cost experience or supporting external evidence.
We have discussed the status of current litigation or regulatory issues with in house legal and external lawyers throughout our audit process, reviewing correspondence with third parties and related contractual agreements.
The Groups exposure to significant tax risks We have utilised internal national and appropriate international taxation specialists to assist the Group team in the evaluation of the assumptions and estimates in relation to the level of provisions recognised for significant tax risks.
We have considered the movements in these provisions during the period, and the closing balances against our expectations.
The risk of fraud and management override of internal controls, specifically in relation to revenue and profit recognition on significant construction contracts across the Group In relation to the specific risk of management override noted, we tested controls around accounting for significant construction contracts at specific locations, performed reviews of those contracts at those locations with operational management, and challenged the appropriateness of assumptions made by management following the outcome of similar assumptions made at the prior year end.
118 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the Groups financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 115, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of The Weir Group PLC for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 and on the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as being audited.
James Nisbet Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Glasgow 26 February 2014 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 119
