1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of WH Smith PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on financial statements WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2013 which comprise In our opinion the parent company financial statements: the Company Balance Sheet and the related Notes 1 to 9. give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their as at 31 August 2013: preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Companies Act 2006. in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the In our opinion: Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act anyone other than the Company and the Companys members 2006: and as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions the information given in the Directors report for the financial year we have formed.
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, Matters on which we are required to report by exception the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and from branches not visited by us: or Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing the parent company financial statements and the part of the Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement Scope of the audit of the financial statements with the accounting records and returns: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable not made: or assurance that the financial statements are free from material we have not received all the information and explanations we misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an require for our audit.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Other matters the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2013. accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read Stephen Griggs Senior Statutory Auditor all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material London, United Kingdom misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
10 October 2013 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 75
