Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Consolidated accounts 2012 13 71 Independent auditors report to the members of Whitbread PLC Independent auditors report to the members Opinion on consolidated financial statements of Whitbread PLC In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: We have audited the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups of Whitbread PLC for the year ended 28 February 2013 affairs as at 28 February 2013 and of its profit for the which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash as adopted by the European Union: and Flow Statement and the related Notes 1 to 33.
The have been prepared in accordance with the requirements financial reporting framework that has been applied of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS in their preparation is applicable law and International Regulation.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 This report is made solely to the Companys members, In our opinion the information given in the Directors report as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the for the financial year for which the consolidated financial Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated so that we might state to the Companys members those financial statements.
matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Matters on which we are required to report by exception permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We have nothing to report in respect of the following: to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report or for the opinions we have formed.
to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified Respective responsibilities of directors and of auditor by law are not made: or As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities on page 70, the directors are responsible we have not received all the information and explanations for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements we require for our audit.
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the directors statement, set out on page 67, in relation applicable law and International Standards on Auditing to going concern: UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating for Auditors.
to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our Scope of the audit of the consolidated financial statements review: and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts certain elements of the report to shareholders by the and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements Board on directors remuneration.
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement, Other matter whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the statements of Whitbread PLC for the year ended 28 February Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied 2013 and on the information in the directors remuneration and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant report that is described as having been audited.
accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
Les Clifford In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial Senior statutory auditor information in the Annual Report to identify material for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP inconsistencies with the audited consolidated financial Statutory Auditor statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material London misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
