Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Company accounts 2012 13 117 Independent auditors report to the members of Whitbread PLC Independent auditors report to the members Opinion on other matter prescribed by the of Whitbread PLC Companies Act 2006 We have audited the Company financial statements of In our opinion: Whitbread PLC for the year ended 28 February 2013 which the part of the Directors remuneration report to be comprise the Balance Sheet and related notes 1 to 11. audited has been properly prepared in accordance with The financial reporting framework that has been applied the Companies Act 2006: and in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted the information given in the Directors Report for the Accounting Practice.
financial year for which the consolidated financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Company financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Matters on which we are required to report by exception that we might state to the Companys members those matters We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we in our opinion: do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than adequate accounting records have not been kept by the the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Company or returns adequate for our audit have not been audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
received from branches not visited by us: or Respective responsibilities of directors and of auditor the Company financial statements and part of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation with the accounting records and returns: or of the Company financial statements and for being satisfied certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit by law are not made: or and express an opinion on the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards we have not received all the information and explanations on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to we require for our audit.
comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Other matter for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the consolidated Scope of the audit of the Company financial statements financial statements of Whitbread PLC for the year ended An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 28 February 2013. and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Company financial statements Les Clifford are free from material misstatement, whether caused Senior statutory auditor by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Statutory Auditor circumstances and have been consistently applied and London adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant 29 April 2013 accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Company financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Company financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Company financial statements In our opinion the Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 28 February 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
