Our 2013 financial statements Independent auditors report In our opinion: Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as the Group financial statements give a true and issued by the IASB fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the As explained in the accounting policies to the Group Groups and the parent companys profit for the year financial statements, in addition to complying with then ended: its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the the Group financial statements have been properly European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs prepared in accordance with International Financial as issued by the International Accounting Standards Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial European Union: statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: Going concern and the financial statements have been prepared in As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991. the directors statement on page 187 that the Group The financial statements comprise the accounting isa going concern.
policies, the consolidated income statement We confirm that: excluding the US dollar information, the we have not identified material uncertainties consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the related to events or conditions that may cast consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes as a going concern which we believe would need to in equity, the parent company profit and loss account be disclosed in accordance with IFRSs as adopted and balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 42.
The bythe European Union: and financial reporting framework that has been applied we have concluded that the directors use of the in the preparation of the Group financial statements going concern basis of accounting in the preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the of the financial statements is appropriate.
The financial reporting framework However, because not all future events or that has been applied in the preparation of the parent conditions can be predicted, this statement is not company financial statements is applicable law and aguarantee as to the Groups ability to continue United Kingdom Accounting Standards United asagoing concern.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
240 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Our 2013 financial statements Independent auditors report Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on ouraudit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
As part of our risk assessment procedures we obtained an understanding of and tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of internal controls that respond to the identified risks, inaddition to performing the substantive audit procedures detailed below.
Risk How the scope of our substantive audit procedures responded to the risk Revenue recognition We challenged the timing of recognition and valuation of media volume income earned onmedia contracts and assessed the ageing of balance sheet provisions.
We checked that Accounting for media volume income: management could demonstrate that persuasive evidence exists in respect of the arrangement assessing the timing of recognition and with the supplier at the time it is recorded.
We also closely monitored the trend of media valuation of media volume income volume income recognised against prior year activity.
earned on media contracts in accordance with the underlying contractual terms isan area of complexity.
Goodwill The Group is highly acquisitive.
As such, given the magnitude of the goodwill balance andthe continued economic uncertainty in certain countries, the valuation of goodwill is Determining whether the carrying considered a significant audit risk.
In order to address this key audit risk we have audited the valueof goodwill is recoverable assumptions used in the impairment model for goodwill.
In doing so, we challenged the key requiresmanagement to make assumptions used, including specifically the operating cash flow projections, discount rates, significantestimates.
and long term growth rates and compared these assumptions to externally derived data where applicable as well as forming our own assessment with the assistance of our internal fair value specialists.
We considered the sensitivity of the impairment testing model to changes in key assumptions.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of its goodwill impairment testing and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in such assumptions.
Taxation The highly disaggregated nature of the Group coupled with its acquisitive nature means that there are a number of different tax jurisdictions in which the Group could be liable to pay There is uncertainty in respect of resolving tax, making potential tax exposures a key audit risk.
We considered all significant taxation matters with tax authorities around the exposures across the Group.
We challenged the estimates and judgements made by world.
Therefore assessing the Groups management when calculating the income tax payable in each territory and the associated exposure to significant tax risks and the provisions held.
level of provisions recognised is an area of judgement.
We reviewed correspondence with taxation authorities in significant locations, as well as reviewing the support or opinions received from external counsel and other advisors where management has utilised such opinions to make assumptions on the level of taxation payable.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 241 Our 2013 financial statements Independent auditors report Our application of materiality provides for substantive audit coverage of over 78%of the Groups consolidated revenue: achieved We define materiality as the magnitude of through a combination of direct testing and specified misstatement in the financial statements that makes audit procedures including substantive analytical it probable that the economic decisions of a review procedures performed by the Group auditor reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed and or component auditors across the world.
We use materiality both in planning audit work at the components is executed at levels of the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the materiality appropriate for such components, which results of our work.
in all instances are lower than Group materiality.
We determined materiality for the Group to be Weperform analytical procedures at a Group level 52.5 million, which is below 5% of pre-tax profit, on the remainder of the Group to confirm our and below 1% of equity.
original risk assessment, that the risk of material We agreed with the Audit Committee that we misstatement is low.
The Group audit team plans would report to the committee all audit differences itsvisits to component auditors based on a carefully inexcess of 0.5 million for the consolidated income derived program: one that is put in place to check statement and 1.0 million for the consolidated that appropriate oversight and guidance is provided balance sheet, as well as differences below that to the component auditors, and which is designed threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on sothat the Senior Statutory Auditor visits all key qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit locations across the Group.
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: An overview of the scope of our audit the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance As a result of the highly disaggregated nature of the with the Companies Act 2006 as if that act had Group, with operations in 110 countries and more applied to the Company: than 3,000 offices among 150 or more companies the information given in the Strategic report and within the Group, a significant portion of audit the Directors report for the financial year for which planning time is spent to ensure the scope of our the financial statements are prepared is consistent work is appropriate to address the Groups identified with the financial statements.
In selecting the components that are in scope each year, we refresh and update our understanding of the Group and its Matters on which we are required to report environment, including obtaining an understanding by exception of the Groups system of internal controls, in order to check that the units selected provide an appropriate basis on which to undertake audit work to address Adequacy of explanations received the identified risks of material misstatement.
Such andaccounting records audit work represents a combination of procedures, all of which are designed to target the Groups Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are identified risks of material misstatement in the most required to report to you if, in our opinion: effective manner possible.
Our Group audit scope we have not received all the information and 242 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Our 2013 financial statements Independent auditors report explanations we require for our audit: or knowledge acquired during the audit and the adequate accounting records have not been kept directors statement that they consider the annual by the parent company, or returns adequate for our report is fair, balanced and understandable and audit have not been received from branches not whether the annual report appropriately discloses visited by us: or those matters that we communicated to the audit the financial statements are not in agreement committee which we consider should have been withthe accounting records and returns.
We confirm that we have not identified We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
anysuch inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Directors remuneration Respective responsibilities of directors Under the UK Listing rules we are also required to and auditor report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the As explained more fully in the Directors part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be responsibilities statement, the directors are audited is not in agreement with the accounting responsible for the preparation of the financial records and returns.
Under the Listing Rules we are statements and for being satisfied that they give a required to review certain elements of the Directors true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to report express an opinion on the financial statements in arising from these matters or our review.
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Corporate Governance Statement standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We Under the UK Listing Rules we are also required to also comply with International Standard on Quality review the part of the corporate governance statement Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology relating to the Companys compliance with nine and tools aim to ensure that our quality control provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
procedures are effective, understood and applied.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, Our duty to read other information in the strategically focused second partner reviews and Annual Report independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys Under International Standards on Auditing UK and members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work opinion, information in the Annual Report is: has been undertaken so that we might state to the materially inconsistent with the information in Companys members those matters we are required the audited financial statements: or to state to them in an auditors report and for no apparently materially incorrect based on, or other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Group acquired in the course of performing our other than the Company and the Companys audit: or members as a body, for our audit work, for this otherwise misleading.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 243 Our 2013 financial statements Independent auditors report Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for ourreport.
Graham Richardson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP London, United Kingdom 16 April 2014 244 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013
