Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Xaar plc Opinion on financial In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of statements of Xaar plc the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Reconciliation of Adjusted Financial Measures, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 34, and the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement in the Going concern Directors report that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
com 69 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Xaar plc continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Inventory valuation We tested the inventory standard costing valuation methodology to assess whether it is We consider there to be a significant risk with respect to the determined in accordance with International Accounting Standard 2 IAS 2.
This has valuation of raw materials, work-in-progress and finished included testing the controls in relation to the inventory standard costing system, such goods at all stages of the assembly process owing to the as the review of variance reports, and the data generated by that system.
judgemental nature of determining the costs used in the inventory standard costing model.
We challenged the assumptions used in the derivation of the cost absorption rates through performing independent checks against actual costs for the year and The inventory provision, which is based on review of old and comparing cost absorption rates with prior years for consistency.
Our testing assessed obsolete inventory lines in addition to historic evidence of the reasonableness of the amendments to inventory valuation for changes in actual inventory write-offs, is also considered to be a significant risk costs of production.
owing to the judgmental nature of the inventory provision.
We tested the completeness and accuracy of the year end inventory valuation, assessing whether standard costs have been applied appropriately to items of raw materials, work-in-progress and finished goods.
We tested the inventory provision for completeness by reference to inventory damage obsolesence issues identified through interviews with inventory management personnel external to the finance function.
We challenged the assumptions that underlie the provision and substantiated via reference to third party transactions and evidence.
Revenue recognition When auditing revenue streams we considered the Groups revenue recognition policy, The Xaar Group accounts for revenue on printheads per International Accounting Standard 18 Revenue IAS 18, to assess whether and system components at the point of despatch as this is revenue recognition is acceptable under IFRSs and whether the policy has been the point at which the risks and rewards of the products applied consistently through the year.
held as stock are transferred to the customer.
The Group has no significant distribution consignment agreements in We performed testing over customer contract pricing agreements granted to place with third parties.
customers during the year by testing a sample of these agreements, reviewing the terms and conditions of sale and agreeing the accounting treatment and revenue We consider there to be a significant risk with respect to recognition applied: also ensuring compliance with IFRSs.
For the most significant the accounting for customer contract pricing with Xaars customers we obtained the customer contract pricing agreement and reconciled this significant customers owing to the degree of estimation to the accounting treatment per the financial statements.
involved in accounting for contract pricing and the associated revenue in line with IFRSs and the Groups accounting policy.
70 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Capitalisation of internally generated We challenged managements accounting treatment of development costs by intangible assets reviewing research and development project costs and discussing those projects with We consider there to be a significant risk in relation to significant expenditure with the Research and Development Director, in order for us to development costs being incorrectly recognised through assess whether projects have reached the development phase and therefore require the profit or loss during the year, in contravention of IAS 38. capitalisation.
For each project we made an assessment of the technical feasibility and Owing to the quantum of investment in R&D in the year and likelihood of future economic benefit by reference to product test stage classifications the number of R&D projects to be approaching technical and and communications with the markets.
economic feasibility, the failure to capitalise appropriate costs could result in material misstatement of profit and loss for the year.
Warranty provision We performed a review of sales returns to identify any specific warranty issues that There are two components to the warranty provision, have arisen over the course of the year.
All specific issues identified are included in a general provision based on the historic product return the specific provision.
We discussed warranty issues with staff external to finance rate over a twelve month period and a specific provision.
and challenged estimates and assumptions when our wider audit procedures indicated We consider there to be a significant risk with respect to the to us that product issues may exist that have yet to be updated for in the warranty completeness and valuation of the specific warranty provision provision calculation.
In addition, we assessed the current year warranty provision by owing to the judgemental nature of the provision calculations reference to historic product return reports and the accuracy of the prior year provision.
which are estimated with reference to known product issues We also agreed all known issues back to the specific warranty calculation.
which have arisen during the year.
Depreciation of property, plant We tested a sample of PPE additions and transfers from assets under construction and equipment PPE on which no depreciation is charged to live assets categories in order to assess As a result of the growth of the business and resulting whether depreciation has commenced when the asset was available for use, in expansion of the Huntingdon manufacturing facility, 19.4 accordance with International Accounting Standard 16 Property, Plant and million of PPE additions had been recognised during the year Equipment IAS 16. ended 31 December 2013.
The depreciation of PPE has been considered to be a significant audit risk due to the judgemental nature of the point at which depreciation commences and the potentially material effect if accounted for the incorrect accounting period.
com 71 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Xaar plc continued The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 40.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the Our application of economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 1.9 million, which is below 5% of pre-tax profit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 40,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide An overview of the controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused scope of our audit our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at the UK headquarters in Cambridge.
Five entities were subject to a full audit Xaar plc, XaarJet Ltd, Xaar Technology Ltd, XaarJet Overseas Ltd and Xaar Digital Ltd performed directly by the Group audit team.
Three entities XaarJet AB, Xaar Group AB and Xaar America Inc. were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
The eight entities subject either to a full audit or specified audit procedures account for 100% of the Groups net assets, 100% of the Groups revenue and 100% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work for each entity was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
As the Group auditor we planned the work conducted by the component auditor, reviewed their work and attended conference call audit planning, status update and close meetings.
Revenue % profit before tax % Net assets % Review at Group level 1% Full audit scope 98% Full audit scope 96% Full audit scope 89% specified audit procedures 2% specified audit procedures 4% specified audit procedures 10% In our opinion: Opinion on other matters prescribed the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the by the Companies Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial Act 2006 statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
72 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequacy of explanations received we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or and accounting records adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors Directors remuneration remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Corporate governance companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report statement arising from our review.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, Our duty to read other information in the annual report is: information in the annual report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of Respective the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and responsibilities express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on of Directors and Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical auditor Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Scope of the audit reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or of the financial error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent statements companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
David Halstead FCA Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Cambridge, United Kingdom 18 March 2014 www.
