FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Company accounts continued Independent auditors report to the members of BAE Systems plc 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year 11.
Reserves Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit then ended: Share Profit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified premium Statutory Other and loss We have audited the financial statements of BAE Systems plc the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in account reserve reserves account for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as m m m m Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement adopted by the European Union: At 31 December 2012 1,249 202 90 2,330 of Comprehensive Income, the Group and parent company the parent company financial statements have been properly Profit for the year 758 balance sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards: and Dividends paid 638 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and related notes.
Share-based payments 41 In our opinion: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards Purchase of own shares 1 212 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Movements in hedging reserve 3 of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at At 31 December 2013 1,249 202 88 2,279 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our Statutory reserve audit were as follows: Under Section 4 of the British Aerospace Act 1980, this reserve may only be applied in paying up unissued shares of the Company to be allotted to members of the Company as fully paid bonus shares.
The procedures to address these audit risks included, amongst others, those Risk listed below Other reserves Recognition of revenues and profits on long-term contracts Other reserves for the Company comprise: capital reserve 24m 2012 24m : hedging reserve 4m debit 2012 1m : capital Refer to page 75 Audit Committee report and page 130 accounting policy and financial disclosures redemption reserve 1m 2012 nil and non-distributable reserve arising from property disposals to other Group undertakings 67m A significant proportion of the Groups revenues and profits are The directors have detailed procedures and processes, called 2012 67m.
The non-distributable reserve arising from property disposals to other Group undertakings relates to the revaluation derived from long-term contracts.
Lifecycle Management LCM, in place to manage the commercial, surplus realised by the Company on properties which were sold to other Group companies as part of operational reorganisations in prior technical and financial aspects of the Groups long-term contracts.
Amounts within this reserve are transferred to the profit and loss account as distributable when the related properties are These contracts include complex technical and commercial risks The LCM process includes the regular preparation of a Contract disposed of outside the Group, or written down following impairment.
and often specify performance milestones to be achieved Status Report CSR which includes key accounting information for throughout the contract period, which can last many years, Profit and loss account the relevant contract.
resulting in estimates and assumptions being made to: The Companys profit for the financial year was 758m 2012 797m.
The non-distributable portion of the profit and loss account is We considered the design and tested the effective operation of 196m 2012 196m.
forecast the margin on each contract after making appropriate key LCM controls.
For significant contracts, determined on the allowances for technical and commercial risks related to Own shares held basis of technical and commercial complexity and profitability of performance milestones yet to be achieved: and Own shares held, including treasury shares and shares held by BAE Systems ESOP Trust, are recognised as a deduction from retained the contract, we also: earnings.
assess the proportion of revenue to recognise, in particular with obtained an understanding of the status of the contract through regards to the value of claims for contract variations.
BAE Systems ESOP Trust discussions with contract project teams and directors at a Group The Group has an Employee Share Option Plan ESOP discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire Company shares, The risk of misstatement is that the accounting for the Groups and operating business unit level, attendance at project teams using funds loaned by the Group, to meet commitments to Group employees.
A dividend waiver was in operation for shares within the significant contracts does not accurately reflect the status of the contract review meetings, and examining externally available ESOP Trust, other than those owned beneficially by the participants, for the dividends paid in June and December 2013. relevant contract.
evidence, such as customer correspondence: and At 31 December 2013, the ESOP held 1,451,631 2012 2,633,198 ordinary shares of 2.5p each with a market value of 6m challenged the key estimates and assumptions applied in 2012 9m.
The shares held by the ESOP are recorded at cost and deducted from retained earnings until such time as the shares vest determining financial status of these contracts by: unconditionally to employees.
corroborating the consistency of changes in the updated Dividend waivers were in operation for the dividends paid in June and December 2013 over shares in the Group All-Employee Free contract financial information summarised in the year-end Shares Plan Trust other than those shares owned beneficially by participants.
A dividend waiver was also in operation for the dividends CSRs to other financial information received: paid in June and December 2013 over shares within the Companys Share Incentive Plan Trust other than those shares owned considering how key uncertainties are reflected in the beneficially by the participants.
contracts status taking into account externally available information: 12.
Other information assessing whether allowances for risks and uncertainties are Employees consistent with past experience considering the maturity of the The total number of employees of the Company at 31 December 2013 was 831 2012 801.
Total staff costs, excluding charges for contracts and the extent of technical or commercial risk share-based payments, were 102m 2012 129m.
identified: and Directors emoluments using our cumulative knowledge of contract issues to assess Under Schedule 5 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 Schedule 5, total the appropriateness of the contract positions reflected in the directors' emoluments, excluding Company pension contributions, were 6,289,295 2012 6,542,000 : these amounts are calculated financial statements at the year end.
on a different basis to emoluments in the Annual remuneration report which are calculated under Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Schedule 8 2013.
These emoluments We performed the above procedures, amongst others, in respect were paid for their services on behalf of the BAE Systems Group.
No emoluments related specifically to their work for the Company.
of the Groups significant contracts which included, but are not Under Schedule 5, the aggregate gains made by directors from the exercise of share options in 2013 as at the date of exercise was limited to: 1,909,962 2012 370,881 and the net aggregate value of assets received by directors in 2013 from Long-Term Incentive Plans as Saudi Typhoon aircraft: calculated at the date of vesting was 129,722 2012 869,116 : these amounts are calculated on a different basis from the valuation of share plan benefits under Schedule 8 2013 in the Annual remuneration report.
Radford Army Ammunition Plant: and Company audit fee Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts totalled 1,621,000 2012 1,570,000.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups segmental and Related party transactions operating cost disclosures in respect of changes in the status of Details of related party transactions are detailed in note 30 to the Group accounts.
contracts which had a material impact on the Groups financial performance for the year.
The Company also has a related party relationship with its directors and key management personnel, and pension schemes.
BAE SyStEmS AnnuAl RepoRt 2013 189 WORD Background.
indd 189 3 7 2014 1:59:26 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of BAE Systems plc continued The procedures to address these audit risks included, amongst others, those 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either Risk listed below our audit that knowledge or the financial statements, a material Carrying value of US goodwill 7.5bn In establishing the overall audit strategy, and performing the audit, misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Refer to page 74 Audit Committee report and page 146 accounting policy and financial disclosures materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set In particular, we are required to report to you if: at 100m.
This has been determined with reference to a An impairment charge of 865m was recognised against the US The directors annual goodwill impairment testing is based on the benchmark of Group profit before taxation which we believe to be we have identified material inconsistencies between the cash-generating units in 2013.
Groups five-year Integrated Business Plan.
one of the principal considerations for members of the Company knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors The uncertainty over future US defence spending increases the We considered the Groups budgeting procedures upon which the in assessing financial performance of the Group.
The same statement that they consider that the Annual Report and risk that the goodwill allocated to the Groups US cash-generating forecasts are based and the principles and integrity of the Groups benchmark was used in the prior year.
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and units will not be recoverable.
understandable and provides the information necessary for Materiality represents 8% of Group profit before taxation excluding shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and We compared the Groups assumptions, where possible, to the impairment charge for the year as disclosed on the face of the model and strategy: or discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of the externally derived data as well as our own assessments in relation Consolidated Income Statement.
assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key judgemental to key inputs, such as projected economic growth, inflation and the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected areas that our audit is concentrated on.
We used our own valuation matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit specialists in also assessing the discount rates used.
We with a value in excess of 5m for income statement items in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, performed breakeven analysis on the key assumptions and, as a addition to other audit misstatements we believe warranted in our opinion: sense check, compared the sum of discounted cash flows to the reporting on qualitative grounds.
Groups market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent those cash flows.
We considered the individual financial significance and level of company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been significant contract judgements at each business unit received from branches not visited by us: or We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the components and the requirement to prepare local audited sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to the parent company financial statements and the part of the statutory financial statements in scoping the procedures for our changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in Group audit.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: or As a result, audits for Group reporting purposes were performed at Retirement benefit obligations 3.5bn certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law 12 of BAE Systems components based in the UK, the US, the Refer to page 74 Audit Committee report and page 162 accounting policy and financial disclosures are not made: or Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia.
These audits covered 74% As presented in note 23 of the financial statements, the Groups We considered whether the methodology used by the directors, to of Group revenue, 82% of profits and losses before tax, and 84% we have not received all the information and explanations we share of the net deficit was 3.5bn after allocating 1.0bn to allocate a proportion of the Groups retirement benefit obligation of Group total assets.
Three of these component audits were require for our audit.
equity accounted investments and other participating employers.
to the equity accounted investments and other participating performed by the Group audit team with the remainder performed employers, was appropriate in estimating such allocation with Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Small changes in assumptions and estimates used to value the by component audit teams.
Specified audit procedures were also reference to agreements between the Group and the equity Groups retirement benefit obligation, including those supporting performed at an additional five components covering an additional the directors statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going accounted investments and participating employers.
the proportion allocated to equity accounted investments and 13% of Group revenue, 8% of profits and losses before tax, and concern: and other participating employers, have a significant impact on the We challenged the key assumptions supporting the Groups 5% of Group total assets.
the part of the Governance section relating to the Companys Groups share of the retirement benefit obligation.
retirement benefit obligations valuation, with input from our own The audit procedures at each of the components for Group compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate actuarial specialists.
This included a comparison of the discount, reporting purposes were all performed to materiality levels set by, Governance Code specified for our review.
inflation and life expectancy assumptions used against externally or agreed with, the Group audit team.
These materiality levels derived data.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
were set individually for each component and ranged from 6m We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in to 50m.
Scope of report and responsibilities respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to changes in these key Detailed instructions were sent to all component auditors.
As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities instructions included the significant areas that should be covered statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the by these component auditors which included the relevant risks of Tax accruals financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true material misstatement detailed above and set out the information Accruals for tax contingencies require the directors to make We used our own international and local tax specialists to assess and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group judgements and estimates in relation to tax risks.
This is one of the Group's tax positions, its correspondence with the relevant tax statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils audit team visited the more significant components in each of the the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on due authorities and its external tax advisers and to analyse and website at www.
This report is following countries: the UK, the US, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to the Group operating in a number of tax jurisdictions, the challenge the assumptions used to determine tax accruals based made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject and Australia.
Telephone meetings were also held with the complexities of international tax legislation and the time taken for on our knowledge and experience of the application of the to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our component auditors of these components and the majority of the tax matters to be agreed with the tax authorities.
international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and responsibilities, published on our website at other components that were not physically visited.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Group's www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be 2006 is unmodified read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the In our opinion: work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements Ian Starkey Senior Statutory Auditor are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we 15 Canada Square are required to report by exception London Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland we are E14 5GL required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the 19 February 2014 190 BAE SyStEmS AnnuAl RepoRt 2013 WORD Background.
indd 190 3 7 2014 1:59:26 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of BAE Systems plc continued The procedures to address these audit risks included, amongst others, those 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either Risk listed below our audit that knowledge or the financial statements, a material Carrying value of US goodwill 7.5bn In establishing the overall audit strategy, and performing the audit, misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we 15 Canada Square are required to report by exception London Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland we are E14 5GL required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the 19 February 2014 BAE SyStEmS AnnuAl RepoRt 2013 191 WORD Background.
