86 Going concern INdEpENdENT aUdITOrS rEpOrT As required by the Listing Rules we havereviewed the Directors statement on page 27 that the Group is a going TO THE MEMBErS Of concern.
Weconfirm that: BalfOUrBEaTTy plC we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue opinion on financial statements of 2006 and, as regards the Group as a going concern which we believe Balfour Beatty plc financialstatements, Article 4 of the would need to be disclosed in In our opinion the financial statements: IASRegulation.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted give a true and fair view of the state of The financial statements comprise the Group bythe European Union: and the Groups and of the Parent and Parent Company Income Statements, we have concluded that the Directors Companys affairs as at 31 December the Group and Parent Company Statements use of the going concern basis of 2013 and of the Groups loss and of Comprehensive Income, the Group and accounting in the preparation of the Parent Companys profit for the year Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group financial statements is appropriate.
thenended: and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, However, because not all future events have been properly prepared in the Group and Parent Company Statements orconditions can be predicted, this accordance with International Financial of Changes in Equity and the related Notes 1 statement is not a guarantee as to Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted to 41.
The financial reporting framework theGroups ability to continue as a by the European Union: and thathas been applied in their preparation goingconcern.
have been prepared in accordance with isapplicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the requirements of the Companies Act the European Union.
our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: suBjeCt nAtuRe oF RIsK hoW the sCoPe oF ouR AuDIt ResPonDeD to the RIsK Recognition The industry is characterised by Our work on the recognition of contract revenue, margin and related of contract contract risk with significant receivables and liabilities included: revenue, judgements involved in the tests of controls over the recognition of contract revenue and margin: margin and assessment of current and future challenge of managements key judgements inherent in the forecast related contract financial performance, costs to complete that drive the accounting under the percentage receivables variations to original contract terms of completion method, including a review of the contract terms andliabilities and claims.
and conditions, managements assessments of the forecasts, the existence and valuation of claims and variations both within contract revenue and contract costs: and an assessment of the recoverability of related receivables.
Goodwill Management is required to carry out We assessed and challenged managements assumptions used in an annual impairment test which the impairment model for goodwill and intangible assets, described incorporates judgements based on in Note 15 to the financial statements, including benchmarking the assumptions about future profitability discount and long-term growth rates, against third party data and for the related businesses.
assessing the reasonableness of forecast future cash flows by comparison to historic performance and future outlook.
Assets held The classification and valuation of We challenged managements judgement on assets held for sale for sale, assets as held for sale is a key area of through understanding the status of the sales process and reviewing discontinued management judgement.
In addition, correspondence from prospective purchasers.
We assessed the operations the classification of businesses as classification of disposed businesses and assets held for sale as anddisposal discontinued operations must be discontinued operations against the relevant criteria in the accounting accounting carefully considered in line with the standard.
For disposed businesses we tested the calculation of the relevant accounting standard.
In relation gain or loss on disposal and challenged the judgements made in relation to disposed operations, management to consideration and disposal provisions with reference to the sales also applies judgement in determining agreements and supporting documentation.
the gain or loss on disposal.
The Audit Committees consideration of our application of materiality person, relying on the financial statements, the above risks is set out on page 56.
We apply the concept of materiality would be changed or influenced.
both in planning and performing our Our audit procedures relating to these When establishing our overall audit audit, and in evaluating the effect of matters were designed in the context of strategy, we determined planning misstatements on our audit and on the our audit of the financial statements as a materiality for the Group to be 15 million, financial statements.
For the purposes whole, and not to express an opinion on which is approximately 8% of underlying of determining whether the financial individual accounts or disclosures.
We use underlying statements are free from material opinion on the financial statements is not profit before tax to exclude the effect misstatement we define materiality as modified with respect to any of the risks of volatility for example, separately the magnitude of misstatement that described above, and we do not express disclosed non-underlying items from our makes it probable that the economic an opinion on these individual matters.
determination and as it represents a key decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable performance measure for the Group.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 87 Our responsibility is to audit and express An overview of the scope of our audit we have not received all the information an opinion on the financial statements Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining and explanations we require for our an understanding of the Group and its in accordance with applicable law and audit: or environment, including group-wide controls, International Standards on Auditing adequate accounting records have not and assessing the risks of material UK and Ireland.
Those standards require been kept by the Parent Company, or misstatement at the group level.
Based on us tocomply with the Auditing Practices returns adequate for our audit have not that assessment, we focused our Group Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
been received from branches not visited audit scope primarily on the audit work at We also comply with International by us: or the most significant operating companies Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and the Parent Company financial where either full or specified audit Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools statements are not in agreement with procedures were carried out based on aim to ensure that our quality control the accounting records and returns.
ourassessment of the identified risks of procedures are effective, understood and We have nothing to report in respect material misstatement identified above.
Our quality controls and systems of these matters.
The remaining operating companies were include our dedicated professional subject to analytical review procedures standards review team, strategically Directors remuneration designed to confirm that no further risks focused second partner reviews and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are ofmisstatement existed that were independent partner reviews.
also required to report if in our opinion material to the Group financial statements.
certain disclosures of Directors This report is made solely to the remuneration have not been made or Operating companies representing the Companys members, as a body, in the part of the 2013 Remuneration Report principal business units within the Groups accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of to be audited is not inagreement with reportable segments and accounting for the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work the accounting records and returns.
80% of the Groups revenue are subject to has been undertaken so that we might Under the Listing Rules we are required full audit procedures with those accounting state to the Companys members those to review certain elements ofthe 2013 for 7% of the Groups revenue subject to matters we are required to state to them specified audit procedures.
We have nothing in an auditors report and for no other review procedures were carried out at the to report arising from these matters or purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted remaining operating companies accounting our review.
by law, we do not accept or assume for 13% of the Groups revenue.
The responsibility to anyone other than the Corporate Governance Statement coverage of our audit procedures as a Company and the Companys members as Under the Listing Rules we are also percentage of the revenue of each a body, for our audit work, for this report, required to review the part of the reportable segment is similar.
or for the opinions we have formed.
Corporate Governance Statement relating The Group audit team follow a programme to the Companys compliance with scope of the audit of the financial of planned visits to the significant operating nine provisions of the UK Corporate statements companies.
The Senior Statutory Auditor or Governance Code.
We have nothing An audit involves obtaining evidence another senior member of the Group audit to report arising from our review.
aboutthe amounts and disclosures in the team visited operating companies covering Our duty to read other information financial statements sufficient to give 77% of Group revenue in the year.
The in the Annual Report reasonable assurance that the financial Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior Under the International Standards and statements are free from material member of the Group audit team also Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required misstatement, whether caused by fraud discussed the risk assessment, reviewed to report to you if, in our opinion, orerror.
This includes an assessment of: documentation of key findings and information in the Annual Report is: participated in the close meetings for all whether the accounting policies are operating companies subject to full scope.
appropriate to the Groups and the Parent materially inconsistent with the Companys circumstances and have information in the audited financial At the parent entity level we also tested beenconsistently applied and adequately statements: or the consolidation process and carried out disclosed: the reasonableness of apparently materially incorrect based analytical procedures to confirm our significant accounting estimates made by on, or materially inconsistent with, our conclusion that there were no significant the Directors: and the overall presentation knowledge of the Group acquired in risks of material misstatement of the of the financial statements.
In addition, the course of performing our audit: or aggregated financial information of the we read all the financial and non-financial is otherwise misleading.
remaining components not subject to audit information in the Annual Report to identify or audit of specified account balances.
In particular, we are required to consider material inconsistencies with the audited whether we have identified any financial statements and to identify any opinion on other matters prescribed inconsistencies between our knowledge information that is apparently materially by the Companies Act 2006 acquired during the audit and the incorrect based on, or materially In our opinion: Directors statement that they consider inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired the part of the 2013 Remuneration the Annual Report is fair, balanced and by us in the course of performing the audit.
Report to be audited has been properly understandable and whether the Annual If we become aware of any apparent prepared in accordance with the Report appropriately discloses those material misstatements or inconsistencies Companies Act 2006: and matters that we communicated to the we consider the implications for our report.
the information given in the Strategic Audit Committee which we consider Report and the Directors Report for the should have been disclosed.
We confirm financial year for which the financial that we have not identified any such statements are prepared is consistent inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors john Adam Matters on which we are required and auditor Senior Statutory Auditor toreport by exception As explained more fully in the Directors For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Adequacy of explanations received Responsibilities Statement, the Directors Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor and accounting records are responsible for the preparation of the London, United Kingdom Under the Companies Act 2006 we are financial statements and for being satisfied 5 March 2014 required to report to you if, in our opinion: that they give a true and fair view.
