Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital & Counties Properties PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Overview of our audit approach Our opinion Materiality In our opinion: We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures The financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as on the financial statements as a whole.
at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and of the Groups and Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 23 million.
The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in This represents approximately 1 per cent of total assets.
We set a accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards specific materiality level of 9 million for the audit of net rental IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: income, finance costs and administrative expenses.
The Parent Company financial statements have been properly We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million as well Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted Companies Act 2006: and reporting for qualitative reasons.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Overview of the scope of our audit the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the The Group is structured along four business lines, being Covent Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Garden, Earls Court Properties including the Lillie Square This opinion is to be read in the context of the remainder of development, Venues and Other including the discontinued this report.
operation, The Great Capital Partnership, each of which is a reporting unit.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation What we have audited of these reporting units and centralised functions.
The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we statements the financial statements, which are prepared by determined the type of work that needed to be performed at Capital & Counties Properties PLC, comprise: the reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, or the Group and Parent Company balance sheets as at component auditors within PwC UK operating under our 31 December 2013: instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, as was the case at Venues reporting unit, we determined the consolidated income statement and statement of the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at comprehensive income for the year then ended: those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient the Group and Parent Company statements of changes in equity appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our and statements of cash flows for the year then ended: and opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a Of the Groups four reporting units, we identified three which, in summary of significant accounting policies and other our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, explanatory information.
as they are each financially significant.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the statements as a whole.
European Union and, as regards the Parent Company, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a What an audit of financial statements involves number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of We conducted our audit in accordance with International significant accounting estimates that involved making Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
assumptions and considering future events that are inherently An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, assurance that the financial statements are free from material forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes the financial statements.
an assessment of: In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered and Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
applied and adequately disclosed: We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
the Directors: and We considered the following areas to be those that required the overall presentation of the financial statements.
particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of audit focus identified by our audit.
We discussed In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on in the Annual Report & Accounts Annual Report to identify those matters that they considered to be significant issues in material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and relation to the financial statements is set out on page 58. to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
com 85 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital & Counties Properties PLC continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of investment and development property The valuation of property is inherently subjective due to, among other We assessed whether the properties held by the Group were valued on factors, the individual nature of each property, its location and the a consistent basis and using appropriate methods.
expected future rental revenues for that particular property.
Specific to We performed testing over data provided by the Group to the external Earls Court Properties there are additional valuation considerations such valuers, including lease data.
as the nature of interests held, contracts for land assembly, commitments We also tested the controls over the external valuation process and met to acquire land under the Conditional Land Sale Agreement CLSA with the external valuers to understand and challenge their assumptions with the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham and the status and conclusions, utilising our valuation experience.
We performed testing over significant contracts which underpin land Refer also to note 18 to the financial statements.
assembly and planning permission, in particular the Network Rail lease re-gear and accounting treatment of the Conditional Land Sale Agreement with the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham.
Taxation We focused on this area because of the degree of judgement involved Using our previous experience of similar matters, we assessed the in the ongoing activity of the Group including transfers and disposals principal assumptions and judgements made in arriving at the current of property portfolios.
This gives rise to material tax considerations and deferred tax position.
We read the open dialogue with HMRC on the calculation, recognition, and classification of deferred tax and evaluated the Groups position with senior management, the balances from both a tax compliance and accounting perspective.
in-house tax specialists and their external advisers.
Refer also to note 31 to the financial statements.
Revenue recognition ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls recognition.
Because of this we focused on the timing of the over the data included in the property management system and the recognition of rental income and revenue from the disposal of reconciliations between the property revenue systems used by the properties and its presentation in the income statement as well as Group and its financial ledgers.
gains on the valuation of investment and development property.
We tested the timing of revenue recognition, taking into account Refer to note 1 to the financial statements.
contractual obligations, and in particular considered how the Group recorded revenue based on sales of investment and trading properties.
The scope of our work on the valuation of investment and development property is described above.
Risk of management override of internal controls ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested journal entries.
OPINIONS ON MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE Going Concern COMPANIES ACT 2006 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors In our opinion: statement, set out on page 83, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Parent Companys are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that 2006: and the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the the information given in the Corporate Governance Report date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we set out on pages 52 to 56 in the Annual Report & Accounts have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis with respect to internal control and risk management systems is appropriate.
and about share capital structures is consistent with the However, because not all future events or conditions can be financial statements.
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
86 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO Other information in the Annual Report REPORT BY EXCEPTION Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, Adequacy of accounting records and information and in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: explanations received materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, financial statements: or in our opinion: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially we have not received all the information and explanations we inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent require for our audit: or Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent is otherwise misleading.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in AND THE AUDIT agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 84, the Directors are responsible Directors remuneration for the preparation of the Group and Parent Company financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration fair view.
specified by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group responsibility we are required to review certain elements of the and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Corporate Governance Statement for Auditors.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only in our opinion a Corporate Governance Statement has not been for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 prepared by the Parent Company.
We have no exceptions to report of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance agreed by our prior consent in writing.
On page 84 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and Mark Pugh Senior Statutory Auditor provides the information necessary for members to assess the for and on behalf of  LLP Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 58, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors as required by C3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out London the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial 25 February 2014 statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
