108 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Independent auditors report To the members of Countrywide Plc Report on the Parent Company financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013: Y have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Y have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Y This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by Countrywide plc, comprise: the Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: and Y the notes to the Parent Company financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Y The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Y the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and Y the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Y In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Countrywide Annual Report the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Parent Company financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Parent Company financial Y statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Y Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Y adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Y branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the Y accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
109 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Other matters on which we are required to report by exception continued Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Parent Company financial statements: or Y apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Parent Company acquired in the course Y ofperforming our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Y We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 58, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK& Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any otherpurpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our priorconsent in writing.
Other Matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Countrywide plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Darryl Phillips Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants andStatutoryAuditors London 27 February 2014
