60 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Independent auditors report To the members of Countrywide plc What an audit of financial Overview of the scope of our audit Report on the Group statementsinvolves The Group is a residential estate agency and financialstatements We conducted our audit in accordance property services provider in the UK operating Our opinion In our opinion the Group withInternational Standards on Auditing in seven complementary businesses as set out financial statements: UKand Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Anaudit in the Annual Report.
Each of the businesses involves obtaining evidence about theamounts is broken down into a number of reporting give a true and fair view of the state Y and disclosures in the financial statements units which are consolidated into the Group ofthe Groups affairs as at 31 December sufficient to give reasonable assurance that financial statements along with the 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash the financial statements are free from material centralisedfunctions.
flows for the year then ended: misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Reporting units from the seven businesses have been properly prepared Y error.
This includes an assessment of: were included in the scope of our work inaccordance with International Financial whether the accounting policies are andwere subject to audits by the group Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted Y appropriate to the Groups circumstances engagement team of their complete financial bythe European Union: and and have been consistently applied and information.
In some of the businesses we have been prepared in accordance Y adequately disclosed: audited all the reporting units and in some withthe requirements of the wefocused on the larger reporting units to the reasonableness of significant accounting CompaniesAct 2006 and Article Y give us appropriate coverage.
Our scope estimates made by the directors: and 4ofthe IAS Regulation.
meant that we achieved 95% coverage of the overall presentation of the Y revenue and 93% of the profit before tax This opinion is to be read in the context of financialstatements.
what we say in the remainder of this report.
In addition, we read all the financial and This, together with additional procedures What we have audited non-financial information in the Countrywide performed by us on the remaining reporting The Group financial statements, which are annual report the Annual Report to identify units, and on impairment, going concern and prepared by Countrywide plc, comprise: material inconsistencies with the audited acquisition accounting, gave us sufficient, financial statements and to identify any the consolidated balance sheet as appropriate audit evidence for our opinion Y information that is apparently materially at31December 2013: onthe Group financial statements as a whole.
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent the consolidated income statement Y Areas of particular audit focus with, the knowledge acquired by us in the forthe year then ended: In preparing the financial statements, the course of performing the audit.
If we become the consolidated statement of directors made a number of subjective aware of any apparent material misstatements Y comprehensive income for the year judgements, for example in respect of or inconsistencies we consider the thenended: significant accounting estimates that involved implications for our report.
making assumptions and considering future the consolidated statement of changes Y Overview of our audit approach events that are inherently uncertain.
We in equity for the year then ended: Materiality primarily focused our work in these areas the consolidated cash flow statement We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These Y byassessing the directors judgements forthe year then ended: and helped us to determine the nature, timing and againstavailable evidence, forming our extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the notes to the Group financial ownjudgements and evaluating the Y the effect of misstatements, both individually statements, which include a summary disclosures in the financial statements.
and on the financial statements as a whole.
ofsignificant accounting policies and In our audit, we tested and examined other explanatory information.
Based on our professional judgement information, using sampling and other auditing wedetermined overall materiality for the techniques, to the extent we considered The financial reporting framework that Groupfinancial statements as a whole to necessary to provide a reasonable basis for has been applied in their preparation be2.9million.
This represented 5% of profit usto draw conclusions.
We obtained audit comprises applicable law and IFRSs before tax adjusted for exceptional items and evidence through testing the effectiveness as adopted by the European Union.
the non-recurring finance costs that arose as a ofcontrols, substantive procedures or a result of the capital restructure onIPO, which combination of both.
we judged to be the most relevant measure We considered the following areas to be those ofunderlying profit for ouraudit.
that required particular focus in the current We agreed with the Audit Committee that year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or wewould report to them all misstatements areas of focus identified by our audit.
We identified during our audit above 0.1 million discussed these areas of focus with the Audit as well as misstatements below that amount Committee.
Their report on those matters that that, in our view, warranted reporting for they considered to be significant issues in qualitative reasons.
relation to the financial statements is set outon page 42.
61 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Report on the Group financialstatements continued Overview of our audit approach continued Areas of particular audit focus continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Management override of controls ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this as there is a risk that senior We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the management can potentially override controls, regardless of how strong the arrangements for employees to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed control environment is.
seniormanagement and the Groups internal audit function.
We audited significant balances which were judgemental and subjective in nature, for example, provisions and impairment, and assessed whether there was evidence of bias by the senior employees in their estimates, individually and in aggregate.
We tested manual journal entries posted during the year to identify unusual orirregular items.
Fraud in revenue recognition ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
We evaluated the process and key controls underlying the recording .
Revenue is the key driver for the business and as such represents a financial statement line item that is susceptible to fraud or manipulation.
We deemed We tested recorded revenue transactions to underlying documentation, occurrence of revenue transactions to be the particular risk.
obtaining external confirmations in some cases.
Our work in this area also included tests of reconciliations between the detailed account listings and the general ledger, and of a sample of credit notes issued post year end, and we also examined journal entries posted to revenue accounts.
Accounting estimates and judgements The Group financial statements include a number of significant accounting We understood and evaluated the processes by which these accounting estimates estimates that required judgement by the directors: and judgements were arrived at.
provisions for Professional Indemnity PI claims principally from the For each significant provision, we assessed the appropriateness of themethodology, Y surveyingbusiness.
Our audit procedures had to take into account tested the relevant data to supporting documentation, examined the integrity of the both the potential exposure and the extent to which liabilities are likely model used to generate the calculation, and evaluated discount rates where appropriate.
We also looked at historical information on the outcome of previous tocrystallise: provisions.
onerous leases dilapidation provisions with a substantial property Y We corroborated the directors estimates and judgements to third party portfolio there is judgement around provisions in relation to the documentation where possible.
Groupsunoccupied properties and future dilapidation costs: In relation to the provisions for PI claims, we attended meetings with the Groups other provisions such as bad debt and other litigation costs Y lawyers and insurers and discussed the matter with the Groups external and in the normal course of business: and internal legal counsel and obtained legal confirmation letters from them.
available-for-sale financial assets need to be fair valued Y For available-for-sale financial assets, we tested the valuations carried out by at each balance sheet date.
the management and obtained comfort over the fair value used by comparing it with the most recent share purchase transactions in the relevant company.
Financial statement disclosure The Group has not reported as a listed company for a number of years, We carried out a full range of tests of the contents of the financial statement whichcould increase the risk of error or omission in the reporting process.
disclosures, and other aspects of the annual report that we audit, to check that they met the technical and regulatory requirements.
As reported below, we also considered whether the statement given by the directors that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable was materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
62 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Independent auditors report continued To the members of Countrywide plc Corporate governance statement Report on the Group Responsibilities for the financial Under the Listing Rules we are required financialstatements continued statements and the audit toreview the part of the Corporate Going concern Our responsibilities and Governance Statement relating to the Under the Listing Rules we are required thoseof the directors Companys compliance with nine provisions toreview the directors statement, set out As explained more fully in the directors ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code onpage 57, in relation to going concern.
responsibilities statement set out on page 58, theCode.
We have nothing to report Wehave nothing to report having thedirectors are responsible for the preparation havingperformed our review.
of the Group financial statementsand for being satisfied thattheygive a true and On page 58 of the Annual Report, as required As noted in the directors statement, the fairview.
by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state directors have concluded that it is appropriate that they consider the Annual Report taken as to prepare the Groups financial statements Our responsibility is to audit and express a whole to be fair, balanced and using the going concern basis of accounting.
anopinion on the Group financial statements understandable and provides the information The going concern basis presumes that the inaccordance with applicable law and ISAs necessary for members to assess the Groups Group has adequate resources to remain in UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us performance, business model and strategy.
operation, and that the directors intend it to tocomply with the Auditing Practices Boards Onpage 42, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, do so, for at least one year from the date the Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Audit Committee hasset out the significant financial statements were signed.
As part of This report, including the opinions, has been issues that it considered in relation to the our audit we have concluded that the directors prepared for and only for the Companys financial statements, and how they were use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
members as a body in accordance with addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are However, because not all future events or Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act required toreport to you if, in our opinion: conditions can be predicted, these statements 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, the statement given by the directors Y are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability ingiving these opinions, accept or assume ismaterially inconsistent with our tocontinue as a going concern.
responsibility for any other purpose or to any knowledge of the Group acquired other person to whom this report is shown inthecourse of performing our Opinions on matters prescribed orinto whose hands it may come save audit: or bythe Companies Act2006 whereexpressly agreed by our prior the section of the Annual Report consentin writing.
Y In our opinion the information given in the describing the work of the Audit strategic report and the directors report Committee does not appropriately Other matter forthe financial year for which the Group address matters communicated by financial statements are prepared is consistent We have reported separately on the ustothe Audit Committee.
with the Group financial statements.
parentcompany financial statements ofCountrywide plc for the year ended We have no exceptions to report arising Other matters on which we are 31December 2013 and on the information fromthis responsibility.
required to report by exception inthe directors remuneration report that Other information in the Annual Report isdescribed as having been audited.
Adequacy of information and Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required explanationsreceived toreport to you if, in our opinion, information Under the Companies Act 2006 we are in the Annual Report is: required to report to you if, in our opinion, materially inconsistent with the wehave not received all the information Y Darryl Phillips information in the audited Group andexplanations we require for our audit.
Senior Statutory Auditor financialstatements: or Wehave no exceptions to report arising for and on behalf of fromthis responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based Y  LLP on, or materially inconsistent with, Directors remuneration Chartered Accountants andStatutoryAuditors ourknowledge of the Group acquired Under the Companies Act 2006 we are London inthe course of performing our required to report if, in our opinion, certain 27 February 2014 audit: or disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made, and under is otherwise misleading.
Y theListing Rules we are required to review We have no exceptions to report arising certain elements of the report to shareholders fromthis responsibility.
bythe Board on directors remuneration.
Wehave no exceptions to report arising fromthese responsibilities.
