105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:07 Page 29 Independent Auditors Report The risk The Groups property portfolio Independent Auditors Report to accounted for 83.3 per cent of the Groups total the members of F&C Commercial assets as at 31 December 2013.
The fair value Property Trust Limited of the investment properties at 31 December 2013 was assessed by the Board of Directors Opinions and Conclusions Arising from our based on an independent valuation prepared by Audit the Groups external property valuer.
As Opinion on Financial Statements highlighted in the Report of the Audit We have audited the consolidated financial Committee, the valuation of the Groups property statements the financial statements of F&C portfolio, given it represents the majority of the Commercial Property Trust Limited the Company total assets of the Group and requires the use and its subsidiaries together, the Group for the of significant judgment, is a significant area of year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the our audit.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Our response Our audit procedures with Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated respect to the Groups investment properties Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes.
The included, but were not limited to, testing the design, implementation and operating financial reporting framework that has been applied effectiveness of the relevant controls, in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as involvement of our own UK Real Estate adopted by the EU.
In our opinion, the financial specialist group to review the valuation prepared by the external property valuer and to evaluate statements: the appropriateness of the valuation give a true and fair view of the state of the methodologies and assumptions used, including Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of undertaking discussions on key findings with the its profit for the year then ended: external valuer and challenging the assumptions used.
We compared key inputs to the valuation have been properly prepared in accordance with such as current and estimated rental income, International Financial Reporting Standards as initial and equivalent yields, estimated capital adopted by the EU: and value, occupancy and tenancy contracts for comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, consistency with other audit findings.
We also 2008 considered the Groups investment property valuation policies and their application as Our Assessment of Risks of Material described in the notes to the financial Misstatement statements for compliance with International The risks of material misstatement detailed in this Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the section of this report are those risks that we have EU in addition to the adequacy of disclosures in deemed, in our professional judgment, to have had notes 1 f and 9 in relation to the fair value of the the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the investment properties.
allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit Our Application of Materiality and an Overview procedures relating to these risks were designed in of the Scope of our Audit the context of our audit of the financial statements Materiality is a term used to describe the acceptable as a whole.
Our opinion on the financial statements level of precision in financial statements.
Auditing is not modified with respect to any of these risks, standards describe a misstatement or an omission and we do not express an opinion on these as material if it could reasonably be expected to individual risks.
influence the economic decisions of users taken on In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial the basis of the financial statements.
The auditor statements, the risk of material misstatement that has to apply judgment in identifying whether a had the greatest effect on our audit was as follows: misstatement or omission is material and to do so Valuation of Investment Properties 914.2 million the auditor identifies a monetary amount as materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Refer to page 24 of the Report of the Audit Committee, note 1 f accounting policies and note 9 The materiality for the financial statements as a disclosures.
This has been Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:07 Page 30 Independent Auditors Report continued calculated using a benchmark of the Groups total audited financial statements and to identify any assets of which it represents approximately 2.4% information that is apparently materially incorrect which we believe is the most appropriate based on, or materially inconsistent with, the benchmark as investment property values are knowledge acquired by us in the course of considered as the prime driver of returns to performing the audit.
If we become aware of any shareholders and main focus of users of the apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies financial statements.
we consider the implications for our report.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it Matters on Which We are Required to Report all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we by Exception identified through our audit with a value in excess of 1.3 million, in addition to other audit misstatements Under International Standards on Auditing [ISAs] UK below that threshold that we believe warranted and Ireland we are required to report to you if, reporting on qualitative grounds.
based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the For the purposes of the Group audit, the audit of Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency the Companys subsidiaries were all performed by with either that knowledge or the financial the Group audit team based on the materiality levels statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that set out above.
Our assessment of materiality has informed our In particular, we are required to report to you if: identification of significant risks of material we have identified material inconsistencies misstatement and the associated audit procedures between the knowledge we acquired during our performed in those areas as detailed above.
audit and the Directors statement that they Whilst the audit process is designed to provide consider that the Annual Report and financial reasonable assurance of identifying material statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced misstatements or omissions it is not guaranteed to and understandable and provides the do so.
Rather the auditor plans the audit to information necessary for members to assess determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to the Groups performance, business model and an appropriately low level the probability that the strategy: or aggregate of uncorrected and undetected the Report of the Audit Committee does not misstatements does not exceed materiality for the appropriately address matters communicated by financial statements as a whole.
This testing us to the Audit Committee.
requires us to conduct significant depth of work on a broad range of assets, liabilities, income and Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, we expense as well as devoting significant time of the are required to report to you if, in our opinion: most experienced members of the audit team, in the Company has not kept proper accounting particular the Responsible Individual, to subjective records: or areas of the accounting and reporting process.
the financial statements are not in agreement An audit involves obtaining evidence about the with the accounting records: or amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the we have not received all the information and financial statements are free from material explanations, which to the best of our misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
knowledge and belief are necessary for the This includes an assessment of: whether the purpose of our audit.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the circumstances and have been consistently applied part of the Corporate Governance Statement on and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of pages 22 to 23 relating to the Companys significant accounting estimates made by the Board compliance with the nine provisions of the UK of Directors: and the overall presentation of the Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual We have nothing to report in respect of the above Report to identify material inconsistencies with the responsibilities.
30 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited 105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:07 Page 31 Scope of Report and Responsibilities The Purpose of this Report and Restrictions on its use by Persons other than the Companys Members as a Body This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and, in respect of any further matters on which we have agreed to report, on terms we have agreed with the Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 28, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the UK Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Heather J MacCallum For and on behalf of KPMG Channel Islands Limited Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors 20 New Street St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 4AN 11 April 2014 The maintenance and integrity of the F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements or audit report since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
