INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FOXTONS GROUP PLC Opinion on financial statements of Foxtons Group plc In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice : and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 32 and the parent company balance sheet and related notes 33 to 38.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
As required by the Listing Rules, we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Directors Report on page 45, that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: We have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and We have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
50 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets We have used internal valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of the discount calculation model.
We have The Groups assessment of impairment of goodwill and other challenged managements key assumptions relating to the intangible assets is a judgemental process which requires estimated future cash flows, growth rates and the discount estimates of future cash flows and associated discount rates rate applied to the separate cash-generating units through and growth rates.
benchmarking against comparator businesses, comparison against the prevailing Group cost of capital and our understanding of the future prospects of the business, with particular focus on assessment of forecasts against historical forecast accuracy.
Revenue recognition in respect of lettings commission We have tested the controls in relation to the lettings business cycle and reporting systems used.
We have challenged A significant volume of lettings contracts include break clauses.
managements judgement of the likelihood of a break clause The Group recognises revenue from lettings commission based on being exercised by reference to historic average lease lengths, its estimate of the period of the tenants occupation of the lease.
including reviewing a sample of lettings contracts, to assess This requires management judgement in respect of the likelihood that the overall level of revenue recognised at the year end of a break clause being exercised.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 29.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 1.8m, which is below 5% of profit before tax, and below 2% of equity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 36,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit scope covers 100% of the Group companies, all of which are UK legal entities with the procedures performed entirely by the central audit team using a statutory materiality appropriate for the entity.
At the parent entity level, we also tested the consolidation process.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FOXTONS GROUP PLC continued Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
52 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Richard Muschamp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 10 March 2014 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53
