Independent Auditors Report Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Independent Auditors Report The assessed risks of material misstatement described below to the members of BBA Aviation plc are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts Opinion on financial statements of BBA Aviation plc of the engagement team: In our opinion: The carrying value of inventory across the Aftermarket the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Services businesses, in particular the appropriateness of state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as judgements applied within the inventory provisioning.
at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year Given the nature of the Groups operations, inventory then ended: can be held for long periods of time before utilisation.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting We tested the provisions held against inventory in the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Aftermarket Services businesses by assessing the judgements the Parent Company financial statements have been properly regarding the expected levels of surplus and obsolete stock prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally held.
Key to these judgements are the estimated remaining Accepted Accounting Practice: and lives of the engine platforms, the estimated frequency of the financial statements have been prepared in accordance engine overhauls, the expected future usage of inventory with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, based on past experience and the level of write-offs in as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the previous years.
We also considered the amendment to the IAS Regulation.
provisioning policy which is designed to achieve greater consistency across the different Aftermarket Services The financial statements comprise: the Consolidated Income businesses and validated the revised approach.
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Revenue recognition in the Aftermarket Services businesses.
Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in There is judgement associated with the revenue recorded Equity, the related notes 1 to 28 and the Group Accounting on a percentage of completion basis at the year-end for Policies.
This also comprises the Parent Company Balance Sheet engine overhauls.
There is also judgement associated with and the related notes 1 to 13 and the Parent Company the revenue recognised and operating lease classification Accounting Policies.
The financial reporting framework that has on the sale of certain engines which are subject to been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements leaseback arrangements.
is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the We assessed the judgements applied on revenue recognised preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is on a percentage of completion basis by verifying time and applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards cost records and the nature of the contractual arrangements United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
where engines have been sold and are then subject to leaseback arrangements.
In assessing the lease classification Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB in the sale and leaseback arrangements, we also reviewed As explained in the Accounting Policies to the Group financial the terms of the leases and third party valuation reports statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to confirm the balance of risks and rewards between the to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group lessor and the lessee.
has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The measurement of taxation assets and liabilities, In our opinion the Group financial statements comply in particular the judgements that support the income with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
tax provision and recognition of deferred tax assets.
Going concern We considered the appropriateness of managements As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors judgement in relation to the level of corporate income tax statement contained within the Directors Report on page 89 provisions held through the use of our tax specialists and that the Group is a going concern.
review of third party evidence, including the status of We confirm that: discussions and communications with the relevant tax we have concluded that the directors use of the going authorities.
In addition, we assessed the appropriateness of concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial managements assumptions and estimates in relation to statements is appropriate: and generating future taxable profits to support the recognition we have not identified any material uncertainties that may of deferred tax assets.
cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
indb 93 12 03 2014 12:45 Independent Auditors Report For the remaining location, which was subject to specific audit The Audit and Risk Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 65. procedures, the extent of our audit work was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements materiality of the Groups business operation at that location.
as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Our application of materiality Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic statements: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $8.3 million.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception This equates to approximately 5% of underlying profit before tax and less than 0.5% of total assets.
Underlying profit before tax is Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records normalised for the materiality calculation to exclude exceptional items because these are audited separately and would, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: if included, significantly distort the materiality calculation year onyear.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them all audit differences in excess of $165,000, adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding Directors remuneration of the Group and its environment, including group-wide Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration audit scope on 12 operating locations, of which seven were Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting subsidiaries subject to a full scope audit for the year ended records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from 31 December 2013 in accordance with statutory reporting these matters.
requirements in the UK and Europe.
Two were subject to specific audit procedures, focused on the audit risk areas.
The remaining Corporate Governance Statement three operating locations were the Groups US businesses Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the for which full scope audits were completed.
These locations part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the represent the principal operating locations of the Group Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate and account for 97% of the Groups revenue and 85% of Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from the Groups total assets.
Audits of these locations are performed at a materiality level determined by reference to a proportion of Group Our duty to read other information in the annual report materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, concerned.
we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information The Group audit team continue to be involved in the audit in the annual report is: work completed in relation to the Groups principal operating materially inconsistent with the information in the audited locations, including following a programme of planned visits that financial statements: or has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially team visits each of the ten operating locations that have been inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired assessed as the most financially significant to the Group on an in the course of performing our audit: or annual basis.
For each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the Group audit team discusses audit findings with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit engagement and reviews relevant audit working papers.
indb 94 12 03 2014 12:45 Independent Auditors Report In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Edward Hanson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 4 March 2014 95 BBA complete.
