| | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc Report on the financial statements In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Our opinion in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report to In our opinion: identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently The financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or of the Groups and Parent Companys cash flows for the year inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly Overview of our audit approach prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Materiality the European Union: We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to The Parent Company Financial statements have been determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually the European Union and as applied in accordance with the and on the financial statements as a whole.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The Financial statements have been prepared in accordance Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 3.8m, as regards the Group Financial statements, Article 4 of being 5% of underlying profit before tax.
We believe that the IAS Regulation.
underlying profit before tax is the most appropriate measure of recurring Group performance.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2m What we have audited as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
statements the Financial statements, which are prepared by Savills plc, comprise: Overview of the scope of our audit The Group is structured along four business lines, being the Consolidated and Company statements of financial transaction advisory, consultancy, property and facilities position as at 31 December 2013: management, and investment management services.
The Group the Consolidated income statement and statement of financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units that comprehensive income for the year then ended: make up the four business lines, spread across four geographic the Consolidated and Company statements of changes regions, UK, Asia, Europe and America, and the centralised in equity and statements of cash flows for the year then functions see note 6 to the financial statements.
ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we summary of significant accounting policies and other determined the type of work that needed to be performed explanatory information.
at the reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the was performed by component auditors, we determined the level European Union and, as regards the Parent Company, as applied of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for What an audit of financial statements involves our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Accordingly, of the groups four geographic regions, we An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and identified two which, in our view, required an audit of their disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give complete financial information, due to their size.
Specific reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
performed on the remaining geographic regions.
This, together This includes an assessment of: with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the financial statements as a whole.
Groups and Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Savills plc 73 Report and Accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc continued Areas of particular audit focus In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
This required them to make We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of assumptions and consider future events that are inherently controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available We considered the following areas to be those that required evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of the disclosures in the financial statements.
all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 47 to 50.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts, We focused on this area because the determination of whether and the process by which they were drawn up, including or not an impairment charge for goodwill was necessary involved comparing them to the latest Board approved budgets, significant judgements about the future results of the business.
and testing the underlying calculations.
We challenged: No impairment charge was booked in the year ended the directors key assumptions for long term growth 31 December 2013. rates in the forecasts by comparing them to historical results, economic and industry forecasts: and Refer also to Note 15 to the financial statements.
the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the company and comparable organisations.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts, including historic profit margins achieved, growth rates, and the benefits from cost reduction programmes.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
Provision for litigation We met with the Groups internal and external legal The Group is subject to various legal actions and proceedings counsel to discuss significant legal cases, and assessed in the normal course of business.
The assessment of the the appropriateness of the provisions held at the balance provisions required is judgemental and could be subject sheet date, taking into account the Groups insurance cover.
Legal cases settled during the year were reviewed to assess Refer also to Note 25 a to the financial statements.
the accuracy of past provisions.
Our audit procedures had to take into account both the potential To test further that the list of legal cases provided exposure and the extent to which liabilities are likely to crystallise, by management was complete, we examined the legal as well as the adequacy of the insurance cover held by the Group.
expenses incurred during the year and any litigation-related matters arising after the year-end.
There is also the risk that legal exposures may arise or may exist for which appropriate provisions are not held.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested journal entries to determine the rationale for manual adjustments.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition As part of the evidence we obtained regarding the revenue recognised during the year, we evaluated the relevant IT systems ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud and tested the internal controls over the completeness, accuracy in revenue recognition.
and timing of revenue recognised in the financial statements.
We focused on the risk that revenue may have been We tested a sample of revenue transactions back to cash inaccurately recorded and or recorded in the incorrect receipts and the related contracts, for example a property period for the transaction advisory and consultancy sale completion statement, or an asset or property revenue streams.
Where revenue was recorded through journal entries, we performed testing to appropriate supporting documentation to establish whether a service had been provided or a sale had occurred in the financial year.
74 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Going Concern On page 72 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual statement, set out on page 72, in relation to going concern.
Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable We have nothing to report having performed our review.
and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page As noted in the directors statement, the directors have 49, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the Parent Companys financial statements using the going concern financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the performing our audit: or directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters However, because not all future events or conditions can be communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, Companies Act 2006 in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: In our opinion: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited the information given in the Strategic Report and the financial statements: or Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially financial statements are prepared is consistent with the inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent financial statements: and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be is otherwise misleading.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other matters on which we are required to report Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit by exception Our responsibilities and those of the directors Adequacy of accounting records and information and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement explanations received set out on page 72, the directors are responsible for the preparation Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to of the Group and Parent Company financial statements and for you if, in our opinion: being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
we have not received all the information and explanations Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group we require for our audit: or and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with adequate accounting records have not been kept by the applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards not been received from branches not visited by us: or for Auditors.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom Directors remuneration this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made, and under the Listing David A Snell Rules we are required to review certain elements of the report to Senior Statutory Auditor shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
We have for and on behalf of  LLP no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of 19 March 2014 the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Savills plc 75 Report and Accounts 2013
