Financial Statements independent Auditors Report to the members of St. Modwen Properties PlC in respect of the Group Financial Statements opinion on Financial Statements of In our opinion: St. Modwen Properties plc the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the th Parent Companys affairs as at 30 November 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IASRegulation.
the financial statements comprise the Group income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive income, the Group and Parent Company balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the related Group notes 1 to 22 and Parent Company notes A to P. the financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and iFRSs as adopted by the European union.
the financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and united Kingdom Accounting Standards united Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
As required by the listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within Going concern the directors Report on page 101 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
however, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
our assessment of risks of the assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest material misstatement effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk how the scope of our audit responded to the risk We met with the third-party valuers, Jones lang laSalle llP Jll, appointed by management Valuation of investment property for each element of the property portfolio and we assessed the reasonableness of the Valuation of investment property is an significant judgements and assumptions applied in their valuation model, including occupancy area of judgement which could materially rates, lease incentives, break clauses and yields.
With the assistance of a member of the audit affect the Financial Statements.
the team who is a chartered surveyor we tested a sample of properties through benchmarking, external valuers make a number of key understanding the valuation methodology and wider market analysis along with testing the estimates and assumptions, certain of integrity of a sample of the data provided to Jll.
We verified the integrity of a sample of which require input from management.
information provided to valuers by management relating to rental income, occupancy and life these estimates and assumptions are of the lease.
subject to market forces and will change over time.
We tested the net realisable value of inventories through testing a sample of those valued by Valuation of inventories management which is the majority using their internal site appraisals, and those valued by Valuation of inventories requires Jll to focus on those with lower margins and assessed the reasonableness of the management to ensure that those assumptions applied.
properties under construction and land held under option are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Accounting for property using Sale and Purchase agreements we carried out testing on purchase cost or sales acquisitions and disposals proceeds, re-calculation of profit or loss on disposal and consideration around whether the profit or loss on disposal provides further evidence of the carrying values of other assets in Accounting for property acquisitions theportfolio.
and disposals as these can be significant and complex transactions.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 103 Financial Statements independent Auditors Report continued to the members of St. Modwen Properties PlC in respect of the Group Financial Statements Risk how the scope of our audit responded to the risk We tested the Group tax workings and considered the current and deferred tax implications of Accounting for taxation property acquisitions, disposals and valuation movements which occurred during the year.
We Accounting for taxation to ensure utilised our tax specialists to appraise the likely outcome of uncertain tax positions and appropriate tax provisions have considered the adequacy of disclosures made in the Annual Report.
Covenant compliance and We tested compliance with loan covenants and reviewed managements forecasts and liquidity disclosure assumptions for ongoing covenant compliance and available headroom on these covenants and existing finance facilities.
We also confirmed that adequate disclosures have been made in Covenant compliance and liquidity the Annual Report.
disclosure which are dependent on cash management and the associated headroom available, property valuations and the terms of the Groups financefacilities.
Revenue recognition We carried out testing around cut off and timing of revenue recognition, the treatment of discounts, rebates, VAt and other sales taxes or duty as well as substantive testing, Revenue recognition, including the analyticalprocedures and assessing whether the revenue recognition policies adopted timing of revenue recognition in relation complied with iFRSs.
to the sale of property, recognition of revenue arising from construction contracts and rental income arising from investment properties.
the Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 71. our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
our opinion on the Financial Statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes our application of materiality it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the Financial Statements as a whole.
We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 6.2 million, which is approximately 7.5% of adjusted pre-tax profit, below 1% of equity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.12 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
our Group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work of the major lines of business of An overview of the scope of which the Group auditor is responsible and as such there is no component auditor reporting our audit into Group.
the Group auditor is responsible for the other significant lines of business where joint venture agreements are in place, notably around the Key Property investments KPi and VSM uxbridge Group limited VSM uxbridge.
KPi accounts for 11% of the Groups net assets, 9% of the Groups revenue and 25% of the Groups recurring pre-tax profit.
VSM uxbridge Group accounts for 4% of the Groups net assets, 0% of the Groups revenue and 4% of the Groups recurring pre-tax profit.
in our opinion: opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies the part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in Act 2006 accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
104 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Matters on which we are required to report by exception we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequacy of explanations received adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns and accounting records adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance statement under the listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the uK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information under international Standards on Auditing uK and ireland, we are required to report to you if, in the Annual Report in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
in particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
As explained more fully in the directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are Respective responsibilities of responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they directors and auditor give a true and fair view.
our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and international Standards on Auditing uK and ireland.
those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
this report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
to the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Financial Statements Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
this includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
in addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
if we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Jonathan Dodworth Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Birmingham, UK rd 3 February 2014 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 105
