Berendsen plc Report and 108 Accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc consistently applied and adequately engagement team, or component Report on the group disclosed: auditors within PwC UK and from other financial statements PwC network firms operating under our, the reasonableness of significant instruction.
Where the work was Our opinion accounting estimates made by the performed by component auditors, we directors: and In our opinion the group financial determined the level of involvement we statements, defined below:, the overall presentation of the needed to have in the audit work at financial statements.
those reporting units to be able to, give a true and fair view of the state of conclude whether sufficient appropriate the groups affairs as at 31 December In addition, we read all the financial audit evidence had been obtained as a 2013 and of the Groups profit and and non-financial information in the basis for our opinion on the group cash flows for the year then ended: Berendsen Report and Accounts financial statements as a whole.
Annual Report to identify material, have been properly prepared in inconsistencies with the audited group Accordingly, of the group's 23 operating accordance with International financial statements and to identify any reporting units, we identified eight Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs information that is apparently materially across all five business lines which, in our as adopted by the European Union: incorrect based on, or materially view, required an audit of their complete and inconsistent with, the knowledge financial information, either due to their, have been prepared in accordance acquired by us in the course of size or their risk characteristics.
These with the requirements of the performing the audit.
If we become eight reporting units represented over Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 aware of any apparent material 88% of both group revenue and group of the IAS Regulation.
misstatements or inconsistencies we adjusted profit before tax.
In addition, consider the implications for our report.
specific audit procedures on certain This opinion is to be read in the context balances and transactions were of what we say in the remainder of Overview of our audit approach performed at a further reporting unit.
Materiality This, together with additional What we have audited procedures performed at the group level We set certain thresholds for materiality.
on goodwill, share based payments and The group financial statements, which These helped us to determine the financial instruments, gave us the are prepared by Berendsen plc, nature, timing and extent of our audit evidence we needed for our opinion comprise: procedures and to evaluate the effect of on the group financial statements as misstatements, both individually and on, the group balance sheet as at a whole.
the financial statements as a whole.
31 December 2013: Areas of particular audit focus Based on our professional judgement, the group income statement and we determined materiality for the group In preparing the financial statements, the statement of comprehensive income financial statements as a whole to be directors made a number of subjective for the year then ended: 6.25million.
This was derived from judgements, for example in respect of, the group statement of changes in profit before tax, adjusted for significant accounting estimates that equity and statement of cash flows exceptional items and amortisation of involved making assumptions and for the year then ended: and the intangible asset relating to customer considering future events that are contracts adjusted profit before inherently uncertain.
We primarily, the notes to the group financial tax.
We have used adjusted profit focused our work in these areas by statements, which include a summary before tax because it is a principal and assessing the directors judgements of significant accounting policies and consistent measure of financial against available evidence, forming our other explanatory information.
performance used by the group in the own judgements, and evaluating the The financial reporting framework that financial statements.
disclosures in the financial statements.
has been applied in their preparation We agreed with the Audit Committee In our audit, we tested and examined comprises applicable law and IFRSs as that we would report to them information, using sampling and other adopted by the European Union.
misstatements identified during our auditing techniques, to the extent we audit above 300,000 as well as considered necessary to provide a What an audit of financial statements misstatements below that amount that, reasonable basis for us to draw involves in our view, warranted reporting for conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence We conducted our audit in accordance qualitative reasons.
through testing the effectiveness of with International Standards on Auditing controls, substantive procedures or a Overview of the scope of our audit UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence The group is structured along five We considered the following areas to be about the amounts and disclosures in business lines, being Workwear, those that required particular focus in the financial statements sufficient to give Facilities, UK Flat Linen, Flat Linen the current year.
This is not a complete reasonable assurance that the financial outside the UK and Clinical Solutions list of all risks or areas of focus identified statements are free from material and Decontamination.
We discussed these areas misstatement, whether caused by fraud financial statements are a consolidation of focus with the Audit Committee.
This includes an assessment of: of 23 operating reporting units and the report on those matters that they groups centralised functions.
whether the accounting policies are considered to be significant issues in In establishing the overall approach to appropriate to the groups relation to the financial statements is set the group audit, we determined the type circumstances and have been out on page 74. of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the group St Str ra ategic tegic repo repor rt t G Go ov five ernance rnance F Fi inanc financial ial statements statments Berendsen plc Report and 109 Accounts 2013 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment We focused on this area because the determination of We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts, and the whether or not impairment charges for goodwill were process by which they were drawn up, including comparing them necessary involved significant judgements by the to the latest Board approved budgets, and testing the underlying directors about the future results of the business.
We challenged: Refer also to note 8 of the financial statements the directors key assumptions for long term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to historical results and economic forecasts: and the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the company and comparable organisations.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
Onerous contracts and asset impairment risk The group makes provisions for estimated future losses We evaluated the processes by which the group identifies contracts on onerous contracts based on discounted cash flow as being onerous.
We assessed whether adequate provision had We challenged the reasonableness of the discounted cash flow been made against all relevant exposures.
forecasts prepared by management to support the provisions made There is also an impairment risk in relation to the assets and the carrying value of the associated assets.
We specifically associated with loss-making contracts.
Refer also to considered the onerous decontamination contract provisions and the note 18 to the financial statements.
We compared the forecasts to the latest Board approved plans and performed procedures to check the operation of the discounted cash flow models.
We challenged management on the assumptions made in the forecasts and the disclosures made in the financial statements around the judgemental nature of the accounting.
Contingent liabilities The group operates from laundries across Europe and We examined the groups latest assessment of the status of the legal historic environmental liabilities may exist.
Though the claims and obtained confirmation from the external legal advisors of group has indemnities from third parties and expects the likelihood of the group successfully defending its position.
to have its warranties confirmed in full with no significant We evaluated managements assessment of material losses arising, loss, it is defending legal claims in respect of certain sites together with the associated accounting and disclosure as a acquired in Sweden.
contingent liability in the group financial statements.
We carried out procedures to assess the groups net exposure in respect of these matters.
Refer also to note 30 to the financial statements.
Fraud in revenue recognition ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in We performed substantive testing on the revenue balances at a local revenue recognition because of the pressure country level and critically evaluated central revenue adjustments to management may feel to achieve the planned results.
We also identified a risk that revenue may not have We read extracts of the relevant customer agreements and our work occurred or may be inappropriately recognised in the included evaluating customer acceptance of the services provided reporting period due to the variety of customer contracts and any on-going disputes.
and range of services performed.
We also performed revenue cut-off testing at each reporting unit Refer also to note 1 to the financial statements.
where an audit of their complete financial information was required.
Risk of management override of internal controls ISAs UK & Ireland stipulate that management override We assessed the overall control environment of the group, including of controls is always a significant risk.
the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the groups internal audit Berendsen is a large organisation with many subsidiaries function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and and some complexity in its reporting process so we judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias considered misstatement through the financial reporting by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement process to be the principal area of risk.
We also tested key reconciliations and manual journal entries and in each of the components where an audit of the complete financial information was required, we agreed the group reporting packs to underlying ledgers.
Berendsen plc Report and 110 Accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc Going Concern On page 78 of the Annual Report, as Other matters on which required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the we are required to report Under the Listing Rules we are required directors state that they consider the by exception to review the directors statement, set Annual Report taken as a whole to be out on page 104, in relation to going fair, balanced and understandable and Adequacy of information and concern.
We have nothing to report provides the information necessary for explanations received having performed our review.
members to assess the groups Under the Companies Act 2006 we are As noted in the directors statement, the performance, business model and required to report to you if, in our directors have concluded that it is strategy.
On page 74, as required by opinion we have not received all the appropriate to prepare the groups C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee information and explanations we require financial statements using the going has set out the significant issues that it for our audit.
We have no exceptions to concern basis of accounting.
The going considered in relation to the financial report arising from this responsibility.
concern basis presumes that the group statements, and how they were has adequate resources to remain in addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland Directors remuneration operation, and that the directors intend we are required to report to you if, in it to do so, for at least one year from the our opinion: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are date the financial statements were required to report if, in our opinion, the statement given by the directors signed.
As part of our audit we have certain disclosures of directors is materially inconsistent with our concluded that the directors use of the remuneration specified by law have not knowledge of the group acquired in going concern basis is appropriate.
been made, and under the Listing Rules the course of performing our audit: or we are required to review certain However, because not all future events elements of the report to shareholders, the section of the Annual Report or conditions can be predicted, these by the Board on directors remuneration.
describing the work of the Audit statements are not a guarantee as to the We have no exceptions to report arising Committee does not appropriately groups ability to continue as a going from these responsibilities.
address matters communicated by us concern.
Corporate Governance Statement Opinions on matters We have no exceptions to report arising prescribed by the Companies Under the Companies Act 2006, we are from this responsibility.
required to report to you if, in our Act 2006 opinion a corporate governance Other information In our opinion: statement has not been prepared by the in the Annual Report, the information given in the Strategic Parent Company.
We have no Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are exceptions to report arising from this Report and the Directors Report for required to report to you if, in our the financial year for which the group responsibility.
opinion, information in the Annual financial statements are prepared is Under the Listing Rules we are required Report is: consistent with the group financial to review the part of the Corporate statements: and Governance Statement relating to the, materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group Companys compliance with nine the information given in the Corporate provisions of the UK Corporate financial statements: or Governance Statement set out on pages Governance Code the Code.
We have 62 to 79 in the Annual Report with, apparently materially incorrect based nothing to report having performed respect to internal control and risk on, or materially inconsistent with, our our review.
management systems and about share knowledge of the group acquired in capital structures is consistent with the the course of performing our audit: or financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
St Str ra ategic tegic repo repor rt t G Go ov five ernance rnance F Fi inanc financial ial statements statments Berendsen plc Report and 111 Accounts 2013 Responsibilities for the Other matter financial statements and We have reported separately on the the audit parent company financial statements of Berendsen plc for the year ended Our responsibilities and those 31 December 2013 and on the of the directors information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described As explained more fully in the Directors as having been audited.
Responsibilities Statement set out on page 105, the directors are responsible Christopher Burns for the preparation of the group financial Senior Statutory Auditor statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
for and on behalf of  LLP Our responsibility is to audit and express Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors an opinion on the group financial London statements in accordance with 27 February 2014 applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Notes: with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
a The maintenance and integrity of the Berendsen plc website is the responsibility This report, including the opinions, has of the directors: the work carried out by been prepared for and only for the the auditors does not involve Companys members as a body in consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 responsibility for any changes that may of the Companies Act 2006 and for no have occurred to the financial statements other purpose.
We do not, in giving since they were initially presented on the these opinions, accept or assume website.
responsibility for any other purpose or b Legislation in the United Kingdom to any other person to whom this report governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may is shown or into whose hands it may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
