Financials and otherinformation Independent auditors report to the  plc We have audited the financial statements of 3i Infrastructure plc for the Opinion on financial statements year ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the Consolidated statement In our opinion the financial statements: of comprehensive income, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash ow give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at statement and the related notes 1 to 20.
The financial reporting 31March 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable have been properly prepared in accordance with International lawand International Financial Reporting Standards.
Financial Reporting Standards: and This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them Matters on which we are required to report inan auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone byexception other than the company and the companys members as a body, for We have nothing to report in respect of the following: ouraudit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report Respective responsibilities of directors and toyou if, in our opinion: auditors proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set visited by us: or out on page 53, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting fairview.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the records and returns: or financial statements in accordance with applicable law and we have not received all the information and explanations we require International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards for our audit.
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Scope of the audit of the financial statements companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Governance Code specified for our review.
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the Geraint Davies accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Jersey, Channel Islands reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 8 May 2013 directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the 3i Infrastructure plc web site is the responsibility financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involveconsideration of misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes ourreport.
that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 61
