Independent auditors report to the members of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC only Intangible assets arising from management contracts Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit and distribution agreements: As detailed in the summary Opinion on financial statements of significant accounting policies in on pages 84 to 90, an We have audited the financial statements of Aberdeen Asset impairment assessment of indefinite life intangibles is carried out Management PLC for the year ended 30 September 2013 set annually, while definite life intangibles are assessed for indicators out on pages 84 to 142.
In our opinion: of impairment.
We assessed the appropriateness of classifying the financial statements give a true and fair view of the intangible assets as indefinite life and managements assessment state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as for indicators of impairment for definite life assets in both cases at 30 September 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year by considering business activities such as fund outflows and then ended: associated results for the year.
We tested the impairment model by comparing the Groups key assumptions, fee rates, projected the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in assets under management and revenue multiples on projected accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as cash flows, against data derived from internal sources, such as the adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Groups own implied fee rates and assets under management and the parent company financial statements have been properly external sources, such as recent transactions.
We assessed the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as sensitivity analysis based on the key assumptions of the models.
applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Acquisition accounting: As detailed in Note 13, the Group made the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with two acquisitions during the year.
One focus of our audit work the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the related to the judgement regarding the classification of transaction Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
related payments as consideration or post-acquisition costs, as Our assessment of risks of material misstatement this classification determines the impact of the acquisitions on In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Group financial current year profit.
We considered the nature and treatment of statements the risks of material misstatement that had the each type of payment, in conjunction with source documentation.
greatest effect on our Group audit were as follows: We also focused on the identification and valuation of separately identifiable intangible assets and used our valuation specialists Intangible Assets: We concentrate our audit on the two to assess the work of the Groups external experts who assisted components of intangible assets which contain the key management in identifying and valuing the separately identifiable judgmental areas of goodwill and management contracts and intangible assets.
This is due to the range of significant assumptions used in the models as described in the subsections Share-based payments: This is a risk which also affected our below and, as these assets represent 23% of the total assets on parent company audit.
As described in Note 22 for the Group and the Balance Sheet, were inappropriate assumptions to be used, for the parent company, a significant proportion of the annual this could lead to a significant misstatement.
In auditing these bonus is awarded in shares with vesting conditions attached.
The areas, our procedures involved the use of our own valuation key risks associated with share-based compensation arrangements specialists to assist us in critically assessing the assumptions is the quantification of such arrangements and the allocation of and methodologies used by the Group.
the expense between accounting periods, as certain assumptions need to be taken into account.
Our procedures included, among Goodwill: As detailed in the summary of significant accounting others, recalculating the deferred awards element of the bonus policies on pages 84 to 90, an impairment assessment of goodwill pool and assessing the basis used to spread the charge over the is carried out annually.
We tested managements impairment performance period and ensuring the disclosures accurately assessment by comparing the Groups assumptions to externally reflected the awards in respect of current and previous years.
derived data as well as our own assessments of key inputs such as projected economic growth, cost inflation and discount rates and Each of these risks is also discussed in the section entitled assessed sensitivities as described in Note 12 as well as performing 'Audit Committee' on pages 59 to 61. a break even analysis on key assumptions.
We tested the Groups Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope procedures around the preparation of the budget, upon which of our audit the value-in-use model is based, as well as comparing the sum The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole of projected discounted cash flows to the market capitalisation was set at 19.5m.
This has been calculated with reference to a of the Group to assess whether the projected cash flows appear benchmark of Group profit before taxation which we consider reasonable.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures to be one of the principal considerations for members of the see Note 12 appropriately reflected the risks inherent in the company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 1.0m that have an impact on profit, in addition to other audit misstatements that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
144 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed at the key in our opinion: reporting components in the following countries: UK, Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia, USA, Luxembourg, Norway and Germany.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent These audits covered 88% of total Group revenue: 100% of Group company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been profit before taxation: and 100% of total Group assets.
The audits received from branches not visited by us: or undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key reporting the parent company financial statements and the part of the components of the Group were all performed to a component Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in materiality level of 9.75m.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law locations.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas are not made: or that should be covered by these audits which included the we have not received all the information and explanations we relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set require for our audit.
out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited components in the UK Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: and USA.
During the visits the audit team reviewed the planned the Directors statement, set out on page 81, in relation to approach to significant risks, discussed any issues identified by the going concern: component teams and held meetings with local management.
the part of the Corporate Governance Report on page 56 to 68 Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors at locations relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of that were not physically visited to discuss their audit approach, the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and the findings from the audit and the detail of any issues identified.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Statutory audits are performed at the majority of the other directors remuneration.
subsidiaries that are not included in scope for Group reporting purposes but generally these are completed after the date of We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Act 2006 Statement set out on page 81, the directors are responsible for In our opinion: the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting 2006: and Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our report for the financial year for which the financial statements responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as Matters on which we are required to report by exception if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have basis of our opinions.
identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: G Bainbridge Senior Statutory Auditor we have identified material inconsistencies between the for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and Chartered Accountants financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 37 Albyn Place understandable and provides the information necessary for Aberdeen shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model AB10 1JB and strategy: or 22 November 2013 the Audit Committee section of the Corporate Governance report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
