INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Admiral Group plc only Opinions and Conclusions Arising per claim method, challenging key judgements Our Response Our audit procedures made by management, for example the extent included, among others, critically assessing fromour Audit to which improvements in claims trends are the contract terms for these arrangements 1.
Our Opinion on the Financial taken into account in reserve projections, to ascertain whether, taking into account Statements is Unmodified and benchmarking key assumptions against relevant accounting standards, the treatment We have audited the financial statements KPMG sourced market data.
of the Groups co-insurance and quota share ofAdmiral Group plc for the year ended reinsurance contracts is appropriate.
We have 31December 2013 set out on pages 70 One of the most significant uncertainties also considered the adequacy of the Groups to101.
In our opinion: relates to the reserve held for large bodily disclosures and appropriateness of the injury claims and actual and potential The financial statements give a true and presentation of transactions and balances Periodic Payment Order PPO settlements.
fairview of the state of the Groups and with these arrangements.
In respect of these amounts, we investigated ofthe parent companys affairs as at the process for identifying and assessing Profit Commission 31December 2013 and of the Groups the required reserve for large claims and for Refer to pages 46 to 49 Audit Committee profitfor the year then ended: updating this reserve as more information statement, note 5 accounting policy The Group financial statements have becomes available, investigated the process andfinancial disclosures.
beenproperly prepared in accordance for assessing cases that have the potential The Risk The recognition of profit withInternational Financial Reporting tobe settled as PPOs and benchmarked the commission income from co-insurers Standards as adopted by the European keyassumptions made in calculating large andquota share reinsurers is initially in line Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : bodily injury claims reserves, including with the loss ratios booked in the financial mortality in the case of PPO cases and The parent company financial statements and willvary with movements discount rates applied.
statements have been properly inthe loss ratios, potentially introducing prepared in accordance with UK In respect of the margin held above volatility into the reported profits.
The Accounting Standards: and theactuarial best estimate, we assessed recognition of this income is therefore therationale for this margin including subject to the same level of estimation The financial statements have been consideration of the level of prudence asthe claims liability noted above until, prepared in accordance with the within the margin, the consistency with inthe case of the quota share reinsurance, requirements of the Companies Act which the underlying judgements have the relevant contracts arecommuted, at 2006 and, as regards the Group financial beenapplied in relation to the current which point no further profit commission statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
yearand prior periods, the existence of isrecognised.
Our Assessment of Risks of anymanagement bias and the adequacy arrangements are in place with the Groups ofthe disclosure in the financial statements.
MaterialMisstatement co-insurance and reinsurance partners In arriving at our audit opinion above onthe andthere is a risk thatthe differences in Our audit team included appropriately skilled financial statements the risks ofmaterial arrangements are notappropriately accounted actuarial specialists to support us in our misstatement that had the greatest effect for, resulting insignificant misstatement.
challenge of the approach taken by the on our audit were as follows.
Group in calculating the liabilities.
We have Our Response Our audit procedures also considered the adequacy of the Groups included, among others and in addition Insurance Liabilities disclosures about the degree of estimation toour procedures over insurance liabilities Refer to pages 46 to 49 Audit Committee and sensitivity to key assumptions.
The focus noted above, forming an expectation of statement, note 5 accounting policy of our work is on the UK Motor portfolio.
theprofit commission income based on andfinancial disclosures.
lossratios applied and contractual terms of Co-insurance and reinsurance The Risk The provision for claims outstanding each arrangement, comparing this to actual Refer to pages 46 to 49 Audit Committee comprises the estimated costof settling all profit commission income recognised and statement, note 5 accounting policy claims incurred but unpaid at the balance corroborating any changes to the profit andfinancial disclosures.
sheet date, whether reported or not.
This commission arrangements during the year.
isa judgemental and complex area due We have also considered the adequacy The Risk The group has in place a number tothe inherent uncertainty of estimating ofthe Groups disclosures about the of proportional risk sharing agreements, claims not yet reported, future costs of arrangements in place.
where insurers outside the Group underwrite settling claims, discount rates and whether a majority of the risk generated, either through customers will beawarded a lump sum claim co-insurance or quota share reinsurance or a periodic payment.
For reinsurance contracts, there are potentially significant and the application is judgement involved in the assessment of accounting standards to determine the ofwhether risk has been transferred, which amount, if any, to be provided as aliability, impacts on the appropriate accounting.
Forco-insurance contracts, the accounting Our Response Our audit procedures is driven by the fact that the Group does included, among others, testing the controls notretain the underlying risks and rewards over the underwriting process and performing of the business underwritten.
The outcome substantive analysis over the trends in claims of these judgements affect the recognition frequency and size.
We assessed the level and timing of revenue along with profit ofreserves held for incurred claims through recognition and disclosure of income evaluating the competence, capability and andexpenses associated with these risk objectivity of the Groups external actuary, sharing agreements.
assessing the actuarial methodologies employed, including the use of paid and incurred chainladders and the average cost Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 68 1 ADM ar13 back.
indd 68 10 03 2014 10:17:03 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER INTRODUCTION REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 3.
Our Application of Materiality and 5.
We Have Nothing to Report in Respect Scope and Responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors anOverview of the Scope of our Audit of the Matters on Which we are Required Responsibilities Statement set out on The materiality for the Group financial to Report by Exception page67, the Directors are responsible for statements as a whole was set at 18.5 million.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required the preparation of the financial statements This has been determined with reference to to report to you if, based on the knowledge and for being satisfied that they give a true a benchmark of Group profit before taxation we acquired during our audit, we have and fair view.
A description of the scope of of which it represents 5% which we consider identified other information in the annual an audit of financial statements is provided to be one of the principal considerations for report that contains a material inconsistency on the Financial Reporting Councils website members of the Company in assessing with either that knowledge or the financial at www.
This financial performance of the Group.
statements, a material misstatement of fact, report is made solely to the Companys or that is otherwise misleading.
We agreed with the audit committee to report members as a body and is subject to important to it all material corrected misstatements In particular, we are required to report to explanations and disclaimers regarding our and those uncorrected misstatements we you if: responsibilities, published on our website at identified through our audit with a value in www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, We have identified material inconsistencies excess of 0.9 million, inaddition to other which are incorporated into this report as if between the knowledge we acquired audit misstatements below that threshold set out in full and should be read to provide during our audit and the Directors that we believe warranted reporting on an understanding of the purpose of this statement that they consider that the qualitative grounds.
report, the work we have undertaken and annual report and financial statements the basis of our opinions.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were taken as a whole is fair, balanced and performed by the Group audit team at the understandable and provides the key reporting components in the UK and Italy.
information necessary for shareholders These audits covered 97% of total Group to assess the Groups performance, net revenue: 99% of Group profit before business model and strategy Salim Tharani Senior Statutory Auditor taxation: and 97% of total Group assets.
The The section of the annual report for and on behalf of KPMG Audit plc, segment disclosures in note 4b set out the describing the work of the Group individual significance of specific countries.
Statutory Auditor Auditand Risk Committee does Chartered Accountants The audits at key reporting components notappropriately address matters 3 Assembly Square ofthe Group were all performed at local communicated by us to the Audit Britannia Quay materiality levels which were set individually andRisk Committee Cardiff for each component and ranged from Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 300,000 to 16.5 million.
The Group CF10 4AX required to report to you if, in our opinion: auditteam performed the work over allsignificant components.
Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or 4.
Our Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed returns adequate for our audit have not by the Companies Act 2006 is Unmodified been received from branches not visited In our opinion: by us The part of the Directors Remuneration The parent company financial Report to be audited has been properly statements and the part of the prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report to be Companies Act 2006 audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns The information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the Certain disclosures of Directors financial year for which the financial remuneration specified by law are statements are prepared is consistent notmade with the financial statements We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit Under the Listing Rules we are required toreview: The Directors statement, set out on page67, in relation to going concern The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 36 to 67 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Admiral Group plc 69 1 ADM ar13 back.
