86 Financial statements BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BG GROUP PLC Our opinions and conclusions arising the recognition and measurement areasonably knowledgeable person, relying fromouraudit ofuncertaintax positions and deferred onthe Financial statements, would be taxassets.
Our opinion on the Financial statements We have audited the Financial statements of 3.
Our response to these risks When establishing our overall audit strategy, BG Group plc for the year ended 31 December Our response to the risks identified above wedetermined a magnitude of uncorrected 2013, which comprise the Consolidated income wasas follows: and undetected misstatements that we statement, the Consolidated statement judged would be material for the Financial ofcomprehensive income, the Consolidated We gained an understanding of the local statements as a whole.
We determined andparent Company balance sheets, the environment in Egypt and monitored its materiality for the Group to be $375 million, Consolidated and parent Company statements impact on operations.
We confirmed the which represents approximately 5% of the ofchanges in equity, the Consolidated and receivables balance and agreed the receipts Groups business performance before taxation.
parent Company cash flow statements, the tosupporting documentation.
We critically We have calculated materiality with reference Principal accounting policies and the related evaluated managements assessment of tothe Groups business performance as notes 1 to 26.
The financial reporting therecoverability of asset balances, including weconsider this to be one of the principal framework that has been applied in their theaudit of related assumptions used.
We considerations for members of the Company preparation is applicable law and International performed a detailed audit of the model inassessing the financial performance of the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted usedto calculate the impairment of Egyptian Group.
Ourevaluation of materiality requires by the European Union and, as regards the parent assets, including the inputs to that model.
professional judgement and necessarily takes Company Financial statements, as applied into account qualitative as well as quantitative We tested controls over, and considered inaccordance with the provisions of the considerations implicit in the definition.
managements assessment of, indicators of Companies Act 2006. impairment.
We challenged managements On the basis of our risk assessments, together assessment of impairment indicators and In our opinion: with our assessment of the Groups overall whether or not a formal impairment test was control environment, our judgement is that required.
Where a formal impairment test the Financial statements give a true and fair overall performance materiality that is our wasnecessary, we challenged managements view of the state of the Groups and of the tolerance for misstatement in an individual assumptions.
This included specifically the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December account or balance for the Group should determination of cash-generating units, cash 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year be50% of materiality, namely $187 million.
flow projections, discount rates, perpetuity thenended: Ourobjective in adopting this approach is to rates and sensitivities used.
We performed ensure that total uncorrected and undetected the Group Financial statements have been detailed audit procedures on the impairment audit differences in the Financial statements properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs test models.
asawhole do not exceed our materiality asadopted by the European Union: We carried out testing of controls over of$375 million.
the parent Company Financial statements BGGroups internal process for oil and gas havebeen properly prepared in accordance reserves estimation, including a critical We agreed with the Audit Committee that with IFRSs as adopted by the European examination of the work performed by an wewould report to the Committee all audit Unionand as applied in accordance with external specialist.
We assessed the objectivity differences in excess of $18 million, as well theprovisions of the Companies Act 2006: and competence of both internal and external asdifferences below that threshold that, andtheFinancial statements have been specialists.
We also discussed and challenged inourview, warranted reporting on prepared in accordance with the requirements the movements in gas and oil reserves based on qualitativegrounds.
oftheCompanies Act 2006 and, as regards other information we became aware ofduring thegroup financial statements, Article 4 the performance of our audit.
An overview of the scope of our audit of the IASRegulation.
results of these procedures to inform our audit We used a risk-based approach for determining of asset impairment testing, the calculation our audit strategy, ensuring that our audit 2.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement ofdepreciation, depletion andamortisation, teams performed consistent procedures We identified the following risks that have the calculation of decommissioning provisions andfocused on addressing the risks that hadthe greatest effect on our overall audit and the assessment of going concern.
This approach strategy: the allocation of resources in focused our audit effort towards higher We considered managements interpretation theaudit: and directing the efforts of the riskareas, such as significant management and application of relevant tax law and engagement team: judgements, and on locations that were challenged the appropriateness of considered material based upon size, managements assumptions and estimates political and economic uncertainty in Egypt complexity and risk.
inrelation to uncertain tax positions and and the related risk over the recoverability deferred tax recognition.
ofassets: Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation ofmateriality and our allocation of that the assessment of the recoverable amount 4.
Our application of materiality materiality determined our audit scope.
ofnon-current exploration and production We apply the concept of materiality both Thefactors that we considered when assessing assets: inplanning and performing our audit, and the scope of the Group audit and the level of inevaluating the effect of misstatements the impact of the estimation of the quantity work to be performed at each location included onour audit and on the Financial statements.
ofoil and gas reserves on impairment testing, the following: the financial significance and Forthe purposes of determining whether depreciation, depletion and amortisation, specific risks of the location, the effectiveness theFinancial statements are free from decommissioning provisions and the going of the control environment and monitoring materialmisstatement we define materiality concern assessment: and activities, including group-wide controls asthe magnitude of misstatement that makes andrecent internal audit findings.
itprobable that the economic decisions of BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Independent auditors report to the members of BG Group plc 87 Our Group audit scope focused on seven consider the Annual Report and Accounts, Reportand Accounts 2013 to identify material locations, of which four were subject to a taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and inconsistencies with the audited Financial fullscope audit, whilst the remaining locations understandable and whether the Annual statements and to identify any information were subject to specific audit testing based Report appropriately discloses those matters that is apparently materially incorrect onour judgement of risk and materiality.
that we communicated to the Audit Committee basedon, or materially inconsistent with, Theselocations represent the principal business which we consider should have been disclosed.
theknowledge acquired by us in the course units within the groups two reportable segments ofperforming our audit.
If we become aware and accounted for 80% of the Groups total Under the Companies Act 2006 we are of any apparent material misstatements or assets and 75% of the Groups profit required to report to you if, in our opinion: inconsistencies we consider the implications before tax.
adequate accounting records have not For the remaining locations, we performed beenkept by the parent Company, or returns The respective responsibilities other procedures to confirm there were no adequate for our audit have not been received of directors and auditor significant risks of material misstatement from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Statement of inthe Group Financial statements.
directors responsibilities set out on pages 82 the parent Company Financial statements and83, the Directors are responsible for andthe part of the Directors Remuneration The Group audit team follows a programme thepreparation of the Financial statements report to be audited are not in agreement ofplanned site visits that is designed to ensure andfor being satisfied that they give a true withthe accounting records and returns: or that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate andfairview.
Our responsibility is to audit visits each in-scope location at least once every certain disclosures of Directors remuneration andexpress an opinion on the Financial two years and the most significant locations specified by law are not made: or statements in accordance with applicable atleast once a year.
This year, the Senior Statutory lawand International Standards on Auditing we have not received all the information Auditor and his designate visited six of the UK and Ireland.
Those standards require andexplanations we require for our audit.
ustocomply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: For all in-scope locations, in addition to the sitevisits, the Group audit team reviewed the Directors statement, set out on page 83, keyworking papers and participated in the inrelation to going concern: and component teams planning and execution ofthe responses to the risks.
the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Allister Wilson Senior statutory auditor 6.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, bythe Companies Act 2006 Code specified for our review.
Statutory Auditor In our opinion: London The scope of our report the part of the Directors Remuneration report This report is made solely to the Companys 19 March 2014 to be audited has been properly prepared in members, as a body, in accordance with accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Notes: the information given in the Strategic report and sothat we might state to the Companys 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the the Directors report for the financial yearfor members those matters we are required BGGroup plc web site is the responsibility which the Financial statements areprepared tostate to them in an auditors report and of the Directors: the work carried out by isconsistent with the Financialstatements.
To the fullest extent theauditors does not involve consideration permitted by law, we do not accept or assume ofthese matters and, accordingly, the 7.
Matters on which we are required responsibility to anyone other than the auditors accept no responsibility for any to report by exception company and the Companys members as changes that may have occurred to the We have nothing to report in respect of the abody, for our audit work, for this report, Financial statements since they were following matters: orforthe opinions we have formed.
initially presented on the web site.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing The scope our audit of the Financial statements required to report to you if, in our opinion, the preparation and dissemination of An audit involves obtaining evidence about information in the Annual Report is: financial statements may differ from theamounts and disclosures in the Financial legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements sufficient to give reasonable materially inconsistent with the information assurance that the Financial statements are inthe audited Financial statements: or free from material misstatement, whether apparently materially incorrect based on, or caused by fraud or error.
This includes an materially inconsistent with, our knowledge assessment of: whether the accounting policies ofthe Group acquired in the course of are appropriate to the Groups and the parent performing our audit: or Companys circumstances and have been applied consistently and adequately disclosed: is otherwise misleading.
the reasonableness of significant accounting In particular, we are required to consider estimates made by the Directors: and the whether we have identified any inconsistencies overall presentation of the Financial statements.
between our knowledge acquired during the Inaddition, we read all the financial and audit and the Directors statement that they non-financial information in the Annual Financial statements
