Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 71 Independent Auditors report to the members of Alliance Trust PLC How the scope of our audit Opinion on financial statements of Risk responded to the risk Alliance Trust PLC Valuation and ownership of listed investments Listed investments represent Valuation was assessed by In our opinion the financial statements: the most significant number understanding the design and give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and on the balance sheet and is the implementation of key controls main driver of the Groups and around listed investments and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 Companys performance.
There by the testing of 100% of the and of the Groups profit and the Parent Companys is a risk that the prices quoted in valuations of listed investments profit for the year then ended: respect of the listed investments directly with independent pricing held may not be reflective of sources.
Any differences over 1% have been properly prepared in accordance with fair value.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as There is a risk over the recording We tested ownership of listed adopted by the European Union: and and custody of listed investments, investments by confirming the and whether listed investments holdings at year end with the have been prepared in accordance with the requirements recorded are the property of the independent custodian.
of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Valuation of unlisted investments The financial statements comprise the Group and Parent Unlisted investments are valued We reviewed and challenged using methodologies agreed by managements valuations for a Company income statements, the Group and Parent management and there are key sample of unlisted investments, Company statements of comprehensive income, the Group inputs to the valuation calculations focusing on the appropriateness and Parent Company statements of changes in equity, the which reflect managements of the valuation methodology judgement.
There is a risk that the and assumptions used within Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and application of an inappropriate the calculations.
Parent Company statements of cash flows, and the related valuation methodology and or the notes 1 to 27.
The financial reporting framework that has use of inappropriate assumptions could result in the valuation been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs of unlisted investments being as adopted by the European Union.
Risk of management override of internal control Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK We carried out analytical and Ireland we have considered procedures and journal entry As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the the risk of management override testing in order to identify and directors statement on page 51 that the Group is a going of controls.
test the risk of fraud arising from management override of concern.
We also built an element of unpredictability into our we have concluded that the directors use of the going detailed testing by testing concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the immaterial and unusual items.
financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and Our assessment of risks of material we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below Our application of materiality are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the in the financial statements that makes it probable that the efforts of the engagement team: economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
72 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 We determined planning materiality for the Group to be Directors remuneration 86.4 million, which is approximately 3% of net assets.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report remuneration have not been made or the part of the to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.7 Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to that we identified when assessing the overall presentation report arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate Governance Statement An overview of the scope of our audit Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the Our Group audit scope included the audit of all subsidiaries part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to and these were subject to a full scope audit for the year the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK ended 31 December 2013.
Audits were performed for local Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report statutory purposes at a local materiality level calculated by arising from our review.
reference to the scale of the business concerned.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Opinion on other matters prescribed Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report by the Companies Act 2006 to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: In our opinion: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially the Companies Act 2006: and inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the otherwise misleading.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the In particular, we are required to consider whether we have financial statements.
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement Matters on which we are required that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report to report by exception appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have Adequacy of explanations received and been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any accounting records such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of we have not received all the information and directors and auditor explanations we require for our audit: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have of the financial statements and for being satisfied that not been received from branches not visited by us: or they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements are not in and express an opinion on the financial statements in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 73 This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Calum Thomson Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 6 March 2014
