STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Amlin plc whether the accounting policies are that needed to be performed at the reporting Report on the Group financial appropriate to the Groups circumstances units by us, as the group engagement team, statements and have been consistently applied and or component auditors within PwC UK and Our opinion adequately disclosed: from other PwC network firms operating In our opinion the Group financial statements, under our instruction.
defined below: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Where the work was performed by give a true and fair view of the state of the Directors: and component auditors, we determined the level Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 of involvement we needed to have in the and of the Groups profit and cash flows the overall presentation of the financial audit work at those reporting units to be able for the year then ended: statements.
to conclude whether sufficient appropriate have been properly prepared in In addition, we read all the financial and audit evidence had been obtained as a basis accordance with International Financial non-financial information in the Annual Report for our opinion on the Group financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted to identify material inconsistencies with the statements as a whole.
by the European Union: and audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently We determined that certain components have been prepared in accordance with the materially incorrect based on, or materially within the underwriting segments required an requirements of the Companies Act 2006 inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by audit of their complete financial information, and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
us in the course of performing the audit.
If either due to their size or their risk This opinion is to be read in the context of we become aware of any apparent material characteristics.
Specific audit procedures on what we say in the remainder of this report.
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider certain balances and transactions were also the implications for our report.
performed in relation to other components What we have audited to ensure we obtained appropriate coverage The Group financial statements, which are Overview of our audit approach across all account balances and performed prepared by Amlin plc, comprise: Materiality audit work to cover the areas of focus we We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These the consolidated balance sheet as at identified and which are set out below.
helped us to determine the nature, timing and 31 December 2013: extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate The work performed on the components, the consolidated income statement and the effect of misstatements, both individually together with additional procedures consolidated statement of comprehensive and on the financial statements as a whole.
performed at the Group level gave us the income for the year then ended: evidence we needed for our opinion on Based on our professional judgement, we set the consolidated statement of changes the Group financial statements as a whole.
materiality for the Group financial statements in equity for the year then ended: as a whole at 14 million.
Our view on overall Areas of particular audit focus the consolidated statement of cash flows materiality was communicated to the In preparing the financial statements, for the year then ended: and Audit Committee.
the Directors made a number of subjective the notes to the consolidated financial judgements, for example in respect of In determining our materiality we have statements 1 to 38, which include a significant accounting estimates that involved considered financial metrics that we believe summary of significant accounting policies making assumptions and considering future to be relevant.
We concluded that using an and other explanatory information.
events that are inherently uncertain.
We average of profit before tax is most relevant primarily focused our work in these areas by The financial reporting framework that has as this considers the variability of results due assessing the Directors judgements against been applied in their preparation comprises to claims experience, particularly in respect available evidence, forming our own applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the of catastrophe losses.
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures European Union.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we in the financial statements.
Certain disclosures required by the financial would report to them misstatements identified In our audit, we tested and examined reporting framework have been presented during our audit above 0.7 million as well as information, using sampling and other elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than misstatements below that amount that, in our auditing techniques, to the extent we in the notes to the financial statements.
These view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
considered necessary to provide a reasonable are cross-referenced from the financial Overview of the scope of our audit basis for us to draw conclusions.
We statements and are identified as audited.
The Group is structured along five underwriting obtained audit evidence through testing What an audit of financial statements segments, being Amlin London and Amlin UK the effectiveness of controls, substantive involves together Syndicate 2001, whose sole member procedures or a combination of both.
We conducted our audit in accordance is Amlin Corporate Member Limited, Amlin We considered the following areas to be with International Standards on Auditing Bermuda, Amlin Re Europe and Amlin Europe.
those that required particular focus in the UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
The Group financial statements are a current year.
This is not a complete list of all An audit involves obtaining evidence about consolidation of numerous reporting risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
the amounts and disclosures in the financial units, comprising the Groups operating We discussed these areas of focus with the statements sufficient to give reasonable and non-operating businesses and Audit Committee.
Their report on those assurance that the financial statements are centralised functions.
matters that they considered to be significant free from material misstatement, whether issues in relation to the financial statements caused by fraud or error.
This includes an In establishing the overall approach to the is set out on page 78. assessment of: Group audit, we determined the type of work Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 109 Independent auditors report to the members of Amlin plc continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Estimation of outstanding claims and reinsurers share We understood, assessed and tested the design and operational of outstanding claims Gross 2,897.1m, Net 2,554.0m effectiveness of the governance and controls in Amlins Outstanding claims and reinsurers share of outstanding claims are reserving process.
inherently uncertain and the estimates reflect critical assumptions that We assessed the Directors estimates based on the methodology, are specific to the nature of the underlying insurance risk, as well as the assumptions and judgements made and evaluated the sensitivity of social, legal and economic environments in which the risks are located.
This work considered the consistency of reserving judgements made between periods.
Management set reserves at a level that includes an element of prudence above an actuarial best estimate to take account of Our assessment considered recognised actuarial techniques and best estimation uncertainty.
practices and application of our industry knowledge and experience.
These judgements and uncertainties in reserves are significant to the In performing our work we considered the accuracy with the benefit earnings of the Group.
of hindsight of the Groups previous estimates and the accuracy and completeness of underlying company data used in setting reserves.
Allowing for reinsurance recoveries on both outstanding losses and Incurred but Not Reported claims is inherently judgemental.
The We tested the recoverability of reinsurance assets including reviewing recoveries are subject to an assessment of credit risk.
the credit rating and payment history of specific reinsurers.
Note 3 on Risk disclosures provide further detail of these uncertainties We also assessed the disclosures in the financial statements which and the process for establishing reserves.
describe the specific uncertainties and judgements made by the Directors in setting reserves.
We assessed and tested the governance and effectiveness of controls Risk of fraud in revenue recognition over the monitoring, estimation and collation of revenue written ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue through third parties and associated estimates.
recognition because of the pressure management may feel to achieve the planned results.
We tested the historic accuracy of estimates for existing arrangements and where arrangements were new we obtained supporting evidence The recognition of revenue for policies written through third parties, for the estimate.
such as delegated authorities, is inherently uncertain and is dependent on data and estimates received from third parties.
We agreed any unusual or significant adjustments to revenue to the supporting evidence.
Note 3 on Risk disclosures provide further detail on these uncertainties and the process for establishing estimated premium income.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group including ISAs UK & Ireland require the auditor to consider the risk of fraud in the review and oversight by independent management and governance an audit of financial statements due to management override.
Our procedures include interviewing senior management and the Groups internal audit function and confirming the Groups There is an inherent risk that management might override controls that arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions.
otherwise appear to be operating effectively.
We have tested the accounting estimates relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a material misstatement due to fraud.
We evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of the controls over, and tested the appropriateness of journal entries recorded in the general ledger and other adjustments made in the preparation of the financial statements.
We also built an element of unpredictability into our testing.
Valuation of Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP LCP options We have tested the features of the options including the contractual The Group holds a 40% interest in LCP with the remainder held by terms, the strike price and the estimated valuation of the underlying management.
Under the partnership agreement, there exist a number asset in confirming the Directors assessment that the options do not of options which allow either the Group or management to purchase have material value.
the remaining shares and voting rights of LCP.
The valuation of the options requires judgement.
Going Concern Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the statement, set out on page 107, in relation to going concern.
We have financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded nothing to report having performed our review.
that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
As noted in the Directors statement the Directors have concluded that it However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the continue as a going concern.
110 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS considered in relation to the financial Opinions on other matters prescribed Other matter statements, and how they were addressed.
by the Companies Act 2006 We have reported separately on the parent Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to In our opinion: company financial statements of Amlin plc report to you if, in our opinion: for the year ended 31 December 2013 and the information given in the Strategic on the information in the Directors Report and the Directors Report for the the statement given by the Directors is Remuneration Report that is described financial year for which the Group financial materially inconsistent with our knowledge as having been audited.
statements are prepared is consistent with of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the Group financial statements: and the section of the Annual Report describing the information given in the Corporate the work of the Audit Committee does not Governance Statement set out on pages appropriately address matters communicated 68 to 72 in the Annual Report with respect by us to the Audit Committee.
to internal control and risk management Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor systems and about share capital structures We have no exceptions to report arising from for and on behalf of  LLP is consistent with the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Other matters on which we are Other information in the Annual Report required to report by exception Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to 28 February 2014 Adequacy of information and explanations report to you if, in our opinion, information in received the Annual Report is: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are materially inconsistent with the information in required to report to you if, in our opinion, the audited Group financial statements: or we have not received all the information and apparently materially incorrect based on, explanations we require for our audit.
We or materially inconsistent with, our have no exceptions to report arising from knowledge of the Group acquired in the this responsibility.
course of performing our audit: or Directors remuneration is otherwise misleading.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our opinion, certain We have no exceptions to report arising from disclosures of Directors remuneration this responsibility.
specified by law have not been made, and Responsibilities for the financial under the Listing Rules we are required to statements and the audit review certain elements of the report to Our responsibilities and those of the shareholders by the Board on Directors Directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions to As explained more fully in the Directors report arising from these responsibilities.
Responsibilities Statement set out on page Corporate Governance Statement 108, the Directors are responsible for the Under the Companies Act 2006, we are preparation of the Group financial statements required to report to you if, in our opinion and for being satisfied that they give a true a corporate governance statement has not and fair view.
been prepared by the Parent Company.
We have no exceptions to report arising Our responsibility is to audit and express an from this responsibility.
opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK Under the Listing Rules we are required to & Ireland.
Those standards require us to review the part of the Corporate Governance comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Statement relating to the Companys Ethical Standards for Auditors.
compliance with nine provisions of the UK This report, including the opinions, has been Corporate Governance Code the Code.
prepared for and only for the Companys We have nothing to report having performed members as a body in accordance with our review.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act On page 108 of the Annual Report, as 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the in giving these opinions, accept or assume Directors state that they consider the Annual responsibility for any other purpose or to Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced any other person to whom this report is and understandable and to provide shown or into whose hands it may come save information necessary for members to assess where expressly agreed by our prior consent the Groups performance, business model in writing.
On page 78 as required by C3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 111 Continuity is long-term stability backed by superior financial strength In this Section Consolidated statement of profit or loss 113 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income 114 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 115 Consolidated statement of financial position 116 Consolidated statement of cash flows 117 Notes to the accounts 118 Note 3 Risk disclosures 127 Parent Company financial statements 198 112 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013
