Strategic ov Strategic o erview verview Performance Performance Go Govern vernance ance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit interests.
If classified as HFS, the gross assets would be shown as a single line and third party investors interests are Opinion on financial statements shown as liabilities.
If an asset is classified as AFS or FVTPL We have audited the financial statements of Ashmore Group plc the Groups holding in the funds is shown as an investment.
for the year ended 30 June 2013 set out on pages 70 to 109.
In Gains and losses would also be recognised on different basis our opinion: and be presented differently.
Appropriate classification is the financial statements give a true and fair view of the therefore a key audit risk.
state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs We critically assessed the Directors rationale for classifying as at 30 June 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year seed capital investments as HFS.
We considered their plans, then ended: to reduce Groups holding in the 12 months following the Group financial statements have been properly prepared acquisition to below the consolidation threshold, against the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards pattern of reduction of Groups seed capital investments to as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the year end and against our own expectations based on our the EU : experience.
Where, as at the year end, an HFS fund had the parent company financial statements have been properly already been held for a significant period we examined the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and changes in holding that occurred in the period and the as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Directors specific plans to further reduce the Groups holding Companies Act 2006: and against the particular requirements of accounting standards.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance For all investments, we tested Ashmores holding in absolute with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, and percentage terms to independent third party as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of confirmations.
We independently priced all the underlying the IAS Regulation.
investment securities consolidated into the Group financial statements using our in-house valuation tool.
For HFS Our assessment of risks of material misstatement investments and consolidated funds we also recalculated the In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Group financial interest of external investors which is classified as liabilities.
statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our Group audit were as follows: Goodwill and intangibles as detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies on pages 78 and 79 and the Revenue as detailed in the summary of significant Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 47 to 48, goodwill accounting policies in page 81 and the Audit and Risk and intangibles are reviewed for impairment using a value in Committee report on pages 47 to 48, revenue consists of use model.
Goodwill remained unimpaired: the assessment primarily management fees and performance fees, both net showed there is significant headroom, as set out in note 15 of rebates to investors.
Performance fees and fee rebates on page 91.
There is less headroom in the intangible asset are considered significant audit risks due to the quantum and assessment, the outcome of which could vary significantly if the complexity of some performance fees and fee rebates different assumptions were applied in the model.
this is considered a key audit risk.
We performed a recalculation of performance fees earned Our audit procedures included, among others, testing during the year on a sample basis to determine whether they the principles and integrity of the model used, comparison had been calculated in accordance with the fee agreements.
of the input assumptions to externally and internally derived This included determining the basis for actual and benchmark data as well as our own assessments in relation to key inputs performance data used in the calculation.
We inspected the such as market performance, subscription redemption levels investment management agreements for a selection of clients and fee rates.
We assessed the overall consistency of the and funds to test whether the information in the fee database, assumptions and of the estimated inputs, including the used to calculate fees, was complete and accurate.
We considered the adequacy For rebates, we assessed the controls around the of the Groups disclosures see Note15 in respect of maintenance of terms sheets used to record all clients impairment testing and whether disclosures about the entitlement to fee rebates.
We also performed a recalculation sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment of fee rebates on a sample basis.
to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks Seed capital investments as set out in the summary of inherent in the key assumptions and the requirements of accounting policies on page 78 and 79, the Group may, from accounting standards.
time to time, invest in funds that are managed by a Group subsidiary.
As described in the report from the Audit and Risk Committee on pages 47 to 48, the seed capital investments may be consolidated or classified as either held-for-sale HFS or as one of two types of financial assets available-for-sale AFS or  FVTPL.
The classifications, which depend on judgments about subjective matters particularly in relation to HFS, may make a material difference to the financial statements.
If a fund is consolidated, the funds gross assets are included in the Group financial statements on a line-by-line basis and a liability is also recognised representing the third party investors Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only continued Share-based payments The Group issues share awards Matters on which we are required to report by to employees under share-based compensation plans.
As exception explained in the report of the Audit and Risk Committee on Under the terms of our engagement we are required to report pages 47 to 48, the key risk associated with share-based to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, compensation arrangements is the quantification of such we have identified other information in the annual report that arrangements, as certain assumptions need to be taken into contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or account in determining the fair value of those share-based the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that compensations that are subject to market-based performance is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report conditions.
This is therefore the key area we focused on to you if: during our audit.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the We assessed the Directors basis for determining the impact knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors of market-based conditions at the start of the vesting period statement that they consider that the annual report and and both equity and cash-settled share-based schemes and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and at the end of the period applicable only to the cash-settled understandable and provides the information necessary for scheme.
We evaluated those assessments particularly those shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business in respect of the cash-settled scheme, which have the greater model and strategy: or financial effect in the light of the movement in the share price the section of the annual report describing the work of the from the start of the relevant vesting period to the year end Group Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately and the total shareholders return of the peer Group over the address matters communicated by us to the Audit and same period.
For all share-based payments we agreed on a sample Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to basis shares granted, exercised and forfeited in the year you if, in our opinion: to supporting documentation and, based on that together adequate accounting records have not been kept by the with the assessed market-based performance conditions and parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not other inputs, tested the calculation of charges and liabilities.
been received from branches not visited by us: or We also considered the disclosures in note 10 in relation to the parent company financial statements and the part of the schemes.
the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not Our application of materiality and an overview of the in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or scope of our audit certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole by law are not made: or was set at 13.0 million.
This has been calculated using a we have not received all the information and explanations benchmark of Group profit before taxation which we believe we require for our audit.
is the key benchmark used by members of the company in assessing financial performance.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected the Directors statement, set out on page 53, in relation and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit to going concern: with a value in excess of 0.65 million, in addition to other audit the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted 40 and 46 relating to the companys compliance with the reporting on qualitative grounds.
nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 specified for our review: and Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed at the key certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board reporting components in the following countries: UK 2 entities on Directors remuneration marked as audited.
These audits covered 96% of total Group revenue: 94% of Group profit before taxation: and 98% of total We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
The Group audit team performed the audits of the Group reporting packs of the UK and the US components in accordance with the materiality levels used for local audits, which ranged from 0.6 million to 10.1 million.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
68 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 68 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic overv vervieiw ew Performance Performance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only continued Share-based payments The Group issues share awards Matters on which we are required to report by Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor The purpose of this report and restrictions on its use to employees under share-based compensation plans.
As exception by persons other than the members of the Company, As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities explained in the report of the Audit and Risk Committee on Under the terms of our engagement we are required to report as a body Statement set out on page 49, the Directors are responsible pages 47 to 48, the key risk associated with share-based to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, for the preparation of the financial statements and for being Our report is made solely to the companys members, as a compensation arrangements is the quantification of such we have identified other information in the annual report that satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies arrangements, as certain assumptions need to be taken into contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements Act 2006 and, in respect of the reporting as if ISA UK and account in determining the fair value of those share-based the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that in accordance with applicable law and International Standards Ireland 700 revised June 2013 applied to this reporting period, compensations that are subject to market-based performance is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to on terms we have agreed with the company.
Our audit work has conditions.
This is therefore the key area we focused on to you if: comply with the UK Ethical Standards for Auditors.
been undertaken so that we might state to the companys during our audit.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the members those matters we are required to state to them in an Scope of an audit of financial statements performed We assessed the Directors basis for determining the impact knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors auditors report and, in respect of the reporting as if ISA UK and in accordance with ISAs UK and Ireland of market-based conditions at the start of the vesting period statement that they consider that the annual report and Ireland 700 revised June 2013 applied to this reporting period, A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements and both equity and cash-settled share-based schemes and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and we have expressly agreed to state to them in our report and for is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at at the end of the period applicable only to the cash-settled understandable and provides the information necessary for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do www.
We evaluated those assessments particularly those shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the in respect of the cash-settled scheme, which have the greater model and strategy: or company and the companys members, as a body, for our audit The risks of material misstatement detailed in the section financial effect in the light of the movement in the share price work, for our report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the section of the annual report describing the work of the of this report titled Our assessment of risks of material from the start of the relevant vesting period to the year end Group Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately misstatement, are those risks that we have deemed, in our Gareth Horner Senior Statutory Auditor and the total shareholders return of the peer Group over the address matters communicated by us to the Audit and professional judgment, had the greatest effect on: the overall for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor same period.
audit strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and Chartered Accountants For all share-based payments we agreed on a sample directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 15 Canada Square basis shares granted, exercised and forfeited in the year procedures relating to these risks were designed in the context you if, in our opinion: London to supporting documentation and, based on that together of our audit of the financial statements as a whole.
Our opinion adequate accounting records have not been kept by the E14 5GL with the assessed market-based performance conditions and on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 9 September 2013 other inputs, tested the calculation of charges and liabilities.
of these risks, and we do not express an opinion on these been received from branches not visited by us: or We also considered the disclosures in note 10 in relation to individual risks.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the schemes.
Materiality is a term used to describe the acceptable level of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not Our application of materiality and an overview of the precision in financial statements.
Auditing standards describe a in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or scope of our audit misstatement or an omission as material if it could reasonably certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken by law are not made: or was set at 13.0 million.
This has been calculated using a on the basis of the financial statements.
The auditor has to apply we have not received all the information and explanations benchmark of Group profit before taxation which we believe judgment in identifying whether a misstatement or omission is we require for our audit.
is the key benchmark used by members of the company in material and to do so the auditor identifies a monetary amount assessing financial performance.
as materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected Whilst the audit process is designed to provide reasonable the Directors statement, set out on page 53, in relation and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit assurance of identifying material misstatements or omissions to going concern: with a value in excess of 0.65 million, in addition to other audit it is not guaranteed to do so.
Rather the auditor plans the audit the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an 40 and 46 relating to the companys compliance with the reporting on qualitative grounds.
appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed specified for our review: and Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed at the key materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
This testing certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board reporting components in the following countries: UK 2 entities requires us to conduct significant depth of work on a broad on Directors remuneration marked as audited.
These audits covered 96% of total Group range of assets, liabilities, income and expense as well as revenue: 94% of Group profit before taxation: and 98% of total We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
devoting significant time of the most experienced members Group assets.
of the audit team, in particular the senior statutory auditor, The Group audit team performed the audits of the Group to subjective areas of the accounting and reporting process.
reporting packs of the UK and the US components in accordance with the materiality levels used for local audits, which ranged from 0.6 million to 10.1 million.
68 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69
