106 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the financial statements, defined below: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups and Parent Companys profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the Accounting policies to the Consolidated financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited The Consolidated financial statements and the Company financial statements the financial statements, which are prepared by Aviva plc, comprise: the Consolidated and the Company statements of financial position as at 31 December 2013: the Consolidated and the Company income statements and statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Reconciliation of Group operating profit to profit loss for the year then ended: the Consolidated and the Company statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows for the year then ended: and the Accounting policies and the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the IASB.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual report and accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we set materiality for the Consolidated financial statements as a whole at 81 million.
Our view on overall materiality was communicated to the Audit Committee.
In determining our materiality, we have considered financial metrics which we believe to be relevant, and concluded that Operating Profit before tax attributable to shareholders profits after integration and restructuring costs was the relevant benchmark because it reflects the underlying profit of the business.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected misstatements greater than 4 million, as well as differences below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group is structured along market reporting lines being United Kingdom & Ireland Life and General Insurance, France, Poland, Italy, Spain and Other, Canada, Asia, Aviva Investors, Other group activities and Discontinued operations.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at each of the market reporting lines by us, as the group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instructions.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed as the group engagement team to have in the audit work at those reporting lines to be able to conclude whether sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Consolidated financial statements as a whole.
Certain components within the market reporting lines required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were also performed in relation Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 107 Aviva plc Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued Annual report and accounts 2013 to other components to ensure we obtained appropriate coverage across all account balances and performed audit work to cover the areas of focus we identified and which are set out below.
The work performed on the components, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Consolidated financial statements as a whole.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
For the Consolidated financial statements we discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 75 and 76.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus We tested the key methodologies and challenged the assumptions used Valuation of insurance contract liabilities by the directors in the valuation of the insurance contract liabilities We focused on this area because the directors valuation of the provisions for the settlement of future claims involves complex and consisting of the long-term and general insurance businesses.
For the long-term business liabilities, those assumptions to which the subjective judgements about future events, both internal and external liability is most sensitive are as follows: to the business, for which small changes in assumptions can result in the United Kingdom business has substantial holdings in asset classes material impacts to the valuation of these liabilities.
Refer to note 41 with significant credit risk, particularly corporate bonds and to the Consolidated financial statements.
commercial mortgages which are used to back annuitant liabilities.
We therefore focused on the allowance for credit default in setting the applicable liability discount rate: and the United Kingdom business annuitant mortality assumptions as these require a high degree of judgement due to the number of factors that result in uncertainty over future life expectancy.
We assessed the directors calculation of these liabilities by testing the underlying company data, the approach and assumptions used against recognised actuarial practices and by applying our industry knowledge and experience.
For the general insurance liabilities we performed re-projections on selected classes of general insurance business in the United Kingdom and Canada.
We also assessed the directors calculation of the general insurance liabilities by testing the underlying company data, the approach and assumptions used against recognised actuarial practices and by applying our industry knowledge and experience.
Valuation of goodwill We evaluated the results of the directors impairment assessment, including an analysis of the methodology and the assumptions adopted.
Our audit of the directors goodwill impairment assessment focused in We performed testing of the appropriateness of the key assumptions particular on Aviva Spain.
This is because the continued volatility in the Spanish economy means that there is an increased potential for used by the directors including performing a sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions used and by considering publicly available data, such as impairment in the goodwill relating to Aviva Spain.
Refer to note 17 to interest rate and economic growth projections.
For a sample of financial investments valued based on models, such as Valuation of certain investments in the Consolidated and the unquoted equity or debt securities, commercial mortgages and over the Company financial statements counter derivatives, we compared the assumptions used by the directors We focussed on financial investments based on models at United to external industry data, and in certain instances independently modelled Kingdom Life and General Insurance, France and Italy in the Consolidated certain valuations, to assess and challenge the appropriateness of the financial statements because of the subjective nature of their valuation directors models and key assumptions used.
and we focussed on investments in subsidiaries in the Company financial For investments in subsidiaries, we assessed the directors process for statements because of the judgments involved in applying the applicable identifying indicators of impairment.
We also tested the directors valuation models.
Refer to note 23 to the Consolidated financial determination of the value of these investments, including the statements and note A to the Company financial statements.
We assessed the reasonableness of the methodology used by the Valuation of the provision for client compensation arising directors and challenged the assumptions applied in valuing the provision.
from breaches in the dealing policy relating to the We tested input data in the calculation of the provision to underlying improper allocation of trades in fixed income securities books and records and or third party evidence.
in Aviva Investors We focused on this area given the subjective nature of the valuation of the provision in the context of the Consolidated financial statements.
Refer also to note 41 and 53 to the Consolidated financial statements.
108 Aviva plc Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus As the foundation of the evidence we obtained regarding the revenue Risk of fraud in revenue recognition recognised during the year, we evaluated the relevant IT systems and ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue tested the internal controls over the completeness, accuracy and timing recognition because of the pressure management may feel to achieve of revenue recognised in the financial statements.
We also tested journal the planned results.
We focused on the timing and accuracy of the recognition of gross earned premium, fees receivable under investment entries posted to revenue accounts to identify unusual or irregular items.
contracts, reinsurance and acquisition costs associated with written premium, and their presentation in the Consolidated income statement.
Refer also to note 6 to the Consolidated financial statements.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested journal entries made to identify unusual or irregular items.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on pages 83 and 84, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Consolidated and the Companys financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 84 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On pages 75 and 76 as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 109 Aviva plc Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on pages 83 and 84, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Consolidated and the Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Consolidated and the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
David Law Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 5 March 2014 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Aviva plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
