Independent Auditors Report to the If we become aware of any apparent GOVERNANCE: material misstatements or inconsistencies Members of Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS We have audited the financial statements of we consider the implications for our report.
REPORT Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the Group and Parent Company Statements of Financial Position, the Group Statement the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flow, of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related Notes profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by Union: and the parent Company financial the European Union and, as regards the parent Company financial statements, as statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance This report is made solely to the Companys with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Our assessment of risks of material assume responsibility to anyone other than misstatement and our response to the Company and the Companys members those risks as a body, for our audit work, for this report, We identified the following risks that have or for the opinions we have formed.
had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the Respective responsibilities of audit: and directing the efforts of the Directors and auditor engagement team: As explained more fully in the Directors The appropriateness of the allowance Responsibilities Statement set out on page for impairment of loans.
100, the Directors are responsible for the We documented the Groups process preparation of the financial statements and for determining the allowance, for being satisfied that they give a true and performed a walkthrough to confirm the fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and process was operating as expected and express an opinion on the financial REPORT TO identified key controls.
We examined the statements in accordance with applicable Groups documented borrower law and International Standards on Auditing assessment, recalculated the allowance, MEMBERS UK and Ireland.
Those standards require compared actual to planned us to comply with the Auditing Practices repayments and considered the Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
expected cash flows from collateral.
We also performed analytical procedures Scope of the audit of the financial over the reasonableness of the statements allowance.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about The Groups financial accounting the amounts and disclosures in the financial systems are highly dependent on IT statements sufficient to give reasonable systems and controls.
assurance that the financial statements are We evaluated the design and operating free from material misstatement, whether effectiveness of the IT systems that are caused by fraud or error.
This includes an relevant to financial reporting.
We assessment of: whether the accounting examined the controls over programme policies are appropriate to the Groups development and changes, access and the parent Companys circumstances to programs and data and IT operations and have been consistently applied and in respect of those IT systems.
Having adequately disclosed: the reasonableness established a basis to rely on IT general of significant accounting estimates made by controls, we tested the automated controls the Directors: and the overall presentation relevant to the financial statements.
In addition, we Fair value of investment properties read all the financial and non-financial and premises.
information in the Annual Report to identify We challenged managements assumptions material inconsistencies with the audited used in the determination of the fair value financial statements and to identify any of investment properties and premises.
information that is apparently materially We engaged valuations specialists to incorrect based on, or materially work with the audit team to evaluate the inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired appropriateness of the valuations.
by us in the course of performing the audit.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 102 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 Our application of materiality The Group audit team operated as an Under the Listing Rules we are required to We apply the concept of materiality in both integrated primary team involving personnel review: planning and performing the audit, and in in London and Tbilisi.
The Senior Statutory the Directors Statement, set out on evaluating the effect of misstatements on Auditor was responsible for the direction, page 101, in relation to going concern: our audit and on the financial statements.
supervision, performance and review of the and the part of the Corporate For the purposes of determining whether audit.
This was achieved through a Governance Statement relating to the the financial statements are free from schedule of planned visits and regular Companys compliance with the nine material misstatement, we define materiality meetings in Tbilisi.
provisions of the UK Corporate as the magnitude of misstatement that Governance Code specified for our makes it probable that the economic Opinion on other matters prescribed by review.
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable the Companies Act 2006 person, relying on the financial statements, In our opinion: would be changed or influenced.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly When establishing our overall audit strategy, prepared in accordance with the we determined a magnitude of uncorrected Companies Act 2006: and A J McIntyre misstatements that we judged would be the information given in the Strategic Senior statutory auditor material for the financial statements as a Report and the Directors Report for the for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, whole.
We determined materiality for the financial year for which the financial Statutory Auditor Group to be GEL 12,200,000, which is statements are prepared is consistent London approximately 5% of profit before tax.
This with the financial statements.
10 April 2014 provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment Matters on which we are required to Notes: procedures, identifying and assessing the report by exception 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Bank risk of material misstatement and determining We have nothing to report in respect of the of Georgia Holdings PLC website is the the nature, timings and extent of further following: responsibility of the Directors: the work audit procedures.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are carried out by the Auditors does not involve required to report to you if, in our opinion, consideration of these matters and, On the basis of our risk assessments, information in the annual report is: accordingly, the Auditors accept no together with our assessment of the materially inconsistent with the responsibility for any changes that may have Groups overall control environment, our occurred to the financial statements since information in the audited financial they were initially presented on the website.
judgement was that overall performance statements: or 2.
L egislation in the United Kingdom governing materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement apparently materially incorrect based the preparation and dissemination of financial in an individual account or balance for the on, or materially inconsistent with, our statements may differ from legislation in other Group should be 50% of materiality, namely knowledge of the Group acquired in the jurisdictions.
Our objective in adopting course of performing our audit: or this approach was to ensure that total is otherwise misleading.
uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not In particular, we are required to consider exceed our materiality level.
whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during We agreed with the Audit Committee that the audit and the Directors statement that we would report to the Committee all audit they consider the Annual Report is fair, differences in excess of GEL 610,000, as balanced and understandable and whether well as differences below that threshold the annual report appropriately discloses that, in our view, warranted reporting on those matters that we communicated to the qualitative grounds.
Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
An overview of the scope of our audit Following our assessment of the risk of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are material misstatement to the Group financial required to report to you if, in our opinion: statements, our audit scope focused on five adequate accounting records have not components which represent the principal been kept by the parent Company, or business units within the Group and returns adequate for our audit have not account for 93% of the Groups total assets been received from branches not visited and 96% of the Groups profit before tax.
by us: or Two of these were subject to a full scope the parent Company financial audit, whilst the remaining three were statements and the part of the Directors subject to a specific scope audit where Remuneration Report to be audited are the extent of audit work was based on not in agreement with the accounting our assessment of the risks of material records and returns: or misstatement and of the materiality of certain disclosures of Directors the Groups business operations at that remuneration specified by law are not location.
They were also selected to provide made: or an appropriate basis for undertaking we have not received all the information audit work to address the risks of material and explanations we require for our misstatement identified above.
remaining components, we performed other procedures to confirm there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 103 STRENGTH THROUGH DIVERSITY TARGETING STRONG GROWTH Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 104 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 IN THIS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SECTION 106 Stand-Alone Statement of Financial Position 107 Stand-Alone Statement of Changes in Equity 108 Stand-Alone Statement of Cash Flows 109 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 110 Consolidated Income Statement 112 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 113 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 114 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 116 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 116 Principal Activities 117 Basis of Preparation 120 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 131 Significant Accounting Judgements and Estimates 132 Business Combination 133 Segment Information 140 Cash and Cash Equivalents 140 Amounts Due from Credit Institutions 140 Investment Securities Available-for-Sale 140 Loans to Customers 144 Finance Lease Receivables 144 Investment Properties 145 Property and Equipment 147 Goodwill 149 Taxation 152 Other Assets and Other Liabilities 153 Amounts Due to Customers 154 Amounts Due to Credit Institutions 155 Commitments and Contingencies 156 Equity 158 Net Fee and Commission Income 158 Net Insurance Revenue 159 Net Healthcare Revenue 159 Salaries and Other Employee Benefits, and General and Administrative Expenses 160 Net Non-operating Expenses 160 Share-based Payments 161 Risk Management 171 Fair Value Measurements 178 Maturity Analysis of Financial Assets and Liabilities 179 Related Party Disclosures 181 Capital Adequacy 182 Event After the Reporting Period Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 105
