The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 59 Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Report on the financial statements information in the Report and Financial Statements the Our opinion Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the In our opinion the financial statements, defined below: audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 October 2013 and of its profit and cash inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course flows for the year then ended: of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the have been properly prepared in accordance with implications for our report.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Overview of our audit approach have been prepared in accordance with the requirements Materiality of the Companies Act 2006.
We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both What we have audited individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
The financial statements, which are prepared by The Bankers Based on our professional judgement, we determined an Investment Trust PLC the Company, comprise: overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole of the balance sheet as at 31 October 2013: 6.5m, which is approximately 1% of net assets.
the statement of comprehensive income for the year then We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report ended: to them misstatements identified during our audit above the statement of changes in equity for the year then 327,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, ended: in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
the cash flow statement for the year then ended: and Overview of the scope of our audit the notes to the financial statements, which include a The Company is a standalone investment trust company summary of significant accounting policies and other managed by an independent investment manager, Henderson explanatory information.
Global Investors Limited the Manager.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in The financial statements, which remain the responsibility of their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as the directors, are prepared on their behalf by the Manager.
adopted by the European Union.
The Manager has, with the consent of the directors, delegated the provision of certain administrative functions to BNP What an audit of financial statements involves Paribas Securities Services the Company Administrator.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
In establishing the overall approach to our audit we assessed the risks of material misstatement, taking into account the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and nature, likelihood and potential magnitude of any disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free misstatement.
As part of our risk assessment, we considered from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or the Companys interaction with the Manager and Company error.
This includes an assessment of: Administrator, and we assessed the control environment in place at both organisations to the extent relevant to our audit whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the of the Company.
Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates in the financial statements.
made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
60 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 Independent Auditors Report continued Areas of particular audit focus However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the In our audit, we tested and examined information, using Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to Opinions on matters prescribed by the draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or Companies Act 2006 a combination of both.
In our opinion: We considered the following areas to be those that required the information given in the Strategic Report and the particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of Report of the Directors for the financial year for which all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed the financial statements are prepared is consistent with these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on the financial statements: those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 27. the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Area of focus How the scope of our audit the Companies Act 2006: and addressed the area of focus the information given in the Corporate Governance Valuation and The majority of the investment existence of portfolio comprised listed equity Statement set out on pages 29 to 30 in the Annual investments investments.
Report with respect to internal control and risk We focused on this We tested the valuation of this management systems and about share capital structures area because investment portfolio by agreeing investments the valuation of investments to is consistent with the financial statements.
represent the independent third party sources.
principal element We tested the existence of the Other matters on which we are required to of the financial investment portfolio by agreeing statements.
the holdings to an independent report by exception custodian confirmation.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and Risk of We tested journal entries to explanations received management determine whether adjustments override of were supported by evidence and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to internal controls appropriately authorised.
you if, in our opinion: ISAs UK & Ireland We also built an element of require that we unpredictability into our detailed we have not received all the information and explanations consider testing.
we require for our audit: or management override of adequate accounting records have not been kept, or controls.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received Going concern from branches not visited by us: or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors the financial statements and the part of the Directors statement, set out on page 24, in relation to going concern.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement We have nothing to report having performed our review.
with the accounting records and returns.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The Directors remuneration going concern basis presumes that the Company has adequate Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial specified by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
report arising from this responsibility.
indd 60 15 01 2014 15:35 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 61 Independent Auditors Report continued Corporate Governance Statement Responsibilities for the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to and the audit you if, in our opinion a corporate governance statement has Our responsibilities and those of the directors not been prepared by the Company.
We have no exceptions As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors to report arising from this responsibility.
Responsibilities set out on page 31, the directors are Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing financial statements in accordance with applicable law and to report having performed our review.
Those standards require us to comply with On page 26 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance understandable and provides the information necessary for with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for members to assess the Companys performance, business no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept model and strategy.
On page 27, as required by C3.8 of the or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company Sally Cosgrove Senior Statutory Auditor acquired in the course of performing our audit: or for and on behalf of  LLP the section of the Annual Report describing the work of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the Audit Committee does not appropriately address London matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
17 January 2014 We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
