The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Independent Auditors report Overview of our audit approach Independent Auditors Report to the members Materiality of Barclays PLC We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine Report on the financial statements the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate Our opinion the effect of misstatements both individually and on the financial In our opinion, the financial statements, fide ned below: statements as a whole.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Based on our professional judgment, we determined overall materiality Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups and for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 310m.
Overall Parent Companys pro t and cash ows for the year then ended: materiality was determined through taking 5% of pro t before taxation have been properly prepared in accordance with International adjusted for own credit, the provision for payment protection insurance Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European redress payments and claims management costs, the provision for Union: and interest rate hedging products redress and claims management costs, goodwill impairment and costs to achieve Transform.
The removal of have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the these items mitigates undue volatility in determining our materiality.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Although our audit was designed to identify material misstatements, we agreed with the Board Audit Committee that we would report to This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the them uncorrected misstatements greater than 15m, as well as remainder of this report.
misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
What we have audited The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial Overview of the scope of our audit statements the financial statements for the year ended 31 December When determining the scope of our audit we considered the internal 2013, which are prepared by Barclays PLC, comprise: organisation of the Group and we sought to determine a scope of audit the Consolidated and Parent balance sheets as at 31 December 2013: work that optimised the coverage of risks, balances and transactions.
the Consolidated and Parent income statements and related The Group has eight operating segments: UK Retail and Business Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then Banking, Europe Retail and Business Banking, Africa Retail and Business ended: Banking, Barclaycard, Investment Bank, Corporate Banking, Wealth and the Consolidated and Parent statements of changes in equity and Investment Management and Head Of ce and Other Operations.
statements of cash ows for the year then ended: and For the purposes of planning our audit, we identi ed eight separate the related notes to the financial statements, which include a components in the Group, being entities and business activities for summary of signi cant accounting policies and other explanatory which the Group prepares financial information.
analysis was broadly consistent with the Groups operating segments: except that we identi ed Barclaycard UK which is part of the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Barclaycard segment and Absa Retail and Business Banking which is preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the part of the Africa Retail and Business Banking segment as separate European Union.
Therefore the components for the purposes of our audit were UK Retail and Business Banking, Europe Retail and Business Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have Banking, Absa Retail and Business Banking, Barclaycard UK, Investment been presented in the Risk review and Financial review sections of the Bank, Corporate Banking, Wealth and Investment Management and Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
Head Of ce & Other Functions the components.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identi ed as audited.
In establishing our overall approach to audit the Group, we considered the signi cance of these components to the financial statements.
We What an audit of financial statements involves also separately considered our assessment of risk within each We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on component, the overall coverage of our procedures across the Group, Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves as well as the risk associated with less signi cant components not obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial brought into the normal scope of our audit.
statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by We determined the type of work that needed to be performed for each fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: component by us in relation to components within the UK, or by other whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and PwC network rms operating under our instruction in relation to Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied components outside the UK.
Where the work was performed by other and adequately disclosed: rms, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work of those components to be able to conclude whether the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the suf cient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for directors: and our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Of the eight components, we performed an audit of the complete In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in financial information of the Investment Bank, Barclaycard UK and Absa the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Retail and Business Banking either because that was required due to financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently their size and their risk characteristics or due to the alignment of local materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the reporting timetables with that of the Group.
We also carried out speci c knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we audit procedures on certain financial statement line items in each of become aware of any apparent material misstatements or the remaining five components.
In addition, the audit of the Barclays inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Africa Group Limited Group which includes the ABSA Retail and Business Banking component and certain other business activities was concluded prior to our audit of the financial statements.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 271 Independent Auditors report continued available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the In aggregate these components, financial statement line items and the Barclays Africa Group Limited Group accounted for 83% of total disclosures in the financial statements.
income and 91% of total assets.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to In addition, we carried out other more limited audit procedures in respect of those business activities of the Group which were not provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, included in the eight components which we had identified.
substantive procedures or a combination of both.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial We consider the following areas of particular audit focus to be those areas that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the statements as a whole.
allocation of resources in our audit and directing the efforts of the audit team in the current year.
This is not however a complete list of all the Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of risks or areas of audit focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Board Audit Committee.
Their report on those subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved them making assumptions and considering matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our financial statements is set out on pages 63 and 64. work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against Areas of particular audit focus Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of complex or We focused on this area because for some of these We assessed and tested the design and operating illiquid trading portfolio assets and liabilities the external evidence supporting effectiveness of the controls over valuations and model assets and liabilities, the Groups valuations is limited because of the lack approval.
financial assets and of a liquid market and the directors judgement was liabilities and derivative required.
In those cases where the external information supporting financial instruments the Groups valuations was limited and the directors held at fair value In particular we focussed on: judgement was required, we examined the Groups internal price verification processes which test those the basis of valuation of the Education, Social judgemental valuations against other information which, Housing and Local Authority ESHLA loan while not directly comparable, may be indicative of the portfolio which is held at fair value: and appropriate valuation.
Where the Group used external the derivative valuation adjustments made by pricing sources we examined the processes and controls management including those made to reflect the operated by those sources.
costs of funding of uncollateralised derivatives and counterparty credit risk.
We also made our own examination of collateral disputes, market auctions and gains and losses on disposals and See Notes 14 to 18 to the financial statements on other events which could provide evidence about the page 298 to 322. appropriateness of the Groups valuations.
In some cases we evaluated the Groups valuation models or made our own valuations of some of the financial instruments and compared our valuations to those of the Group.
In relation to the particular areas of focus set out opposite: we assessed the methodology used to value the ESHLA portfolio and we examined potentially comparable transactions to determine the extent to which the inputs to the valuation methodology were observable: we assessed the methodology for the derivative valuation adjustments and compared it with our knowledge of current and emerging practice: and we examined relevant transactions to corroborate the methodology for the derivative valuation adjustments and the assumptions made.
272 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Areas of particular audit focus Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of the We focused on this area because the directors make We assessed and tested the design and operating carrying value of loans complex and subjective judgements over both timing effectiveness of the controls over impairment calculations.
and advances to banks of recognition of impairment and the estimation of and to customers held the size of any such impairment.
Where impairment was individually calculated, we tested at amortised cost a sample of loans and advances to ascertain whether the In the Corporate Banking and Investment Bank impairment event had been identified in a timely manner, components the material portion of impairment is including how forbearance had been considered.
In the UK, Europe and Absa identified impairments, we examined the future cash flow Retail and Business Bank and the Barclaycard UK forecasts prepared by management, challenging the components the material portion of the impairment assumptions made, and comparing the estimates to is calculated on a modelled basis for portfolios of external evidence where available.
Where impairment was calculated on a modelled basis, In particular we focussed on: we tested the basis and operation of those models and the data used.
the principal assumptions underlying the calculation of impairment for portfolios of loans In relation to the particular areas of focus set out and advances, the operation of the models to make opposite: those calculations and the application of adjustments to the results produced by those we compared the principal assumptions made with our models: and own knowledge of other practices and actual experience: how impairment events that have not yet resulted in a payment default are identified and measured, we tested the operation of the models used to calculate including the granting of forbearance.
the impairment including, in some cases, rebuilding those models independently and comparing the results: See Notes 7 and 20 to the financial statements on we examined the basis for the further adjustments pages 291 and 324 respectively and the relevant parts made to the results produced by those models: and of the Risk review to which they are cross-referred.
we tested the operation of the Groups controls to identify any potential additional impairment due to events that have not yet resulted in a payment default, including the granting of forbearance, and we specifically examined the individual judgements made for a sample of loans and advances.
Provisions for the cost We focused on this area because the directors have We assessed and tested the design and operating of conduct remediation made provisions that require significant judgement in effectiveness of the directors controls over the calculation relation to the amount of current and potential future of the provisions for the cost of conduct remediation.
claims from customers for losses or damages associated with inappropriate judgements in the In relation to the particular areas of focus set out opposite execution of the Groups business activities.
we examined the history of claim volumes and settlement amounts for PPI and IRHP and assessed whether the In particular, we focussed on the provisions in assumptions underpinning the provision calculations, relation to Payment Protection Insurance redress including future claims volumes and settlement amounts, PPI and Interest Rate Hedging Product redress were appropriate.
This assessment considered the latest IRHP.
information available including regulatory inspections and communications and our knowledge of other such See Note 28 to the financial statements on redress settlements.
Litigation and We focussed on this area because the Group is We assessed and tested the design and operating regulatory claims subject to challenge in respect of many legal, effectiveness of the controls over the identification and regulatory and competition matters, many of which reporting of legal regulatory or competition matters.
Consequently, the directors make judgements about the incidence and quantum We considered the Groups assessment of the nature of such liabilities arising from litigation and and status of litigation, claims and assessments and regulatory or competition claims which are subject to discussed them with senior Group management including the future outcome of legal or regulatory processes.
See Note 30 to the financial statements on We examined the Groups conclusions with respect to pages 334 to 340. the provisions and disclosures made for significant cases, both considering the correspondence between the Group and its external legal counsel and independently communicating with certain of those external legal counsel.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 273 Independent Auditors report continued Areas of particular audit focus Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Provision for uncertain We focussed on this area because the Group is We examined the correspondence between the Group tax positions subject to taxation in many jurisdictions and, in many and both the relevant tax authorities and the Groups cases, the ultimate tax treatment is uncertain and is external advisers.
We examined the matters in dispute not determined until resolved with the relevant tax and used our knowledge of the law of the relevant tax authority.
Consequently, the directors make jurisdictions and other similar taxation matters to assess judgements about the incidence and quantum of tax the available evidence and consider whether the liabilities which are subject to the future outcome of provisions are appropriate.
assessments by the relevant tax authorities and potentially associated legal processes.
See Note 10 to the financial statements on pages 294 and 297.
IT systems and controls We focussed on this area because the Groups We assessed and tested the design and operating financial accounting systems are heavily dependent effectiveness of the directors controls over the continued on complex IT systems which are the subject of integrity of the IT systems that are relevant to financial continuing development and improvement.
We examined the governance framework for the Groups IT organisation and the controls over program development and changes, access to programs and data and IT operations, including compensating controls where required.
Where necessary we also carried out direct tests of certain aspects of the security of the Groups IT systems including access and segregation of duties.
We assessed and tested the design and operating Risk of fraud in We focussed on this area because ISAs UK & Ireland revenue recognition presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue effectiveness of the controls over the occurrence, accuracy and timing of revenue recognised in the financial recognition as a result of the potential for management bias in order to achieve planned results.
We also focused on the instances of material judgement by the directors and by management and on those parts of the accounting processes which require manual intervention.
We incorporated unpredictability into our testing.
Risk of management We focussed on this area because ISAs UK & Ireland We tested key reconciliations and manual journal entries override of internal require that we consider the risk of management incorporating unpredictability into our approach.
controls override of internal controls.
We considered whether there was evidence of bias by the directors or by management in the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements.
We also assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistleblow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
274 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Going Concern On page 82 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as statement in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the having performed our review.
information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On pages 63 and 64, as required by C. 3.8 As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that of the Code, the Board Audit Committee has set out the significant it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Parent Companys financial issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have report to you if, in our opinion: adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing statements were signed.
In drawing this conclusion, the directors have our audit: or considered the regulatory capital position of the Group as well as the funding and liquidity position of the Group.
the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Board Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the communicated by us to the Board Audit Committee.
going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 opinion, information in the Annual Report is: In our opinion: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors statements: or Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has the course of performing our audit: or been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. is otherwise misleading.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Our responsibilities and those of the directors our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set we have not received all the information and explanations we require out on page 82, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group and Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied for our audit: that they give a true and fair view.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and from branches not visited by us: or Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do Directors remuneration not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to prior consent in writing.
review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from Andrew Ratcliffe Senior Statutory Auditor this responsibility.
for and on behalf of  LLP Corporate Governance Statement Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the London, United Kingdom Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys 3 March 2014 compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 275 Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms report control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Barclays PLC weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated income statements, consolidated statements of also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audits provide a comprehensive income and consolidated statements of changes in equity, and consolidated cash flow statements present fairly, in all reasonable basis for our opinions.
material respects, the financial position of Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries at 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2013, and the results As discussed in Notes 1 and 46, in 2013 the Company changed the manner in which it assesses consolidation, due to the implementation of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2013 in conformity with International of IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements: and the manner in which it accounts for its employee benefits due to the implementation Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Also in our opinion, the Company of IAS 19 revised : Employee Benefits, which resulted in the inclusion of the January 1, 2012 balance sheet.
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2013, based on criteria A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process established in Internal Control Integrated Framework 1992 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for Commission COSO.
The Companys management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in managements includes those policies and procedures that i pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly report on internal control over financial reporting in the Directors Report appearing on page 81 of the Annual Report to Shareholders.
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: ii provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Companys internal control over financial reporting based necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance on our integrated audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the authorizations of management and directors of the company: and iii audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the financial statement presentation.
Our audit of internal control over risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 LLP London, United Kingdon 3 March 2014 276 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
