Independent auditors report to the members of Beazley plc Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Beazley plc Beazley for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the consolidated statement of profit or loss, the consolidated and parent company statements of comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent company statements of financial position, the consolidated and parent company statements of cash flows, the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity and the related notes.
Our audit was conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: and the parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The risks of material misstatement detailed in this section of this report are those risks that we have deemed, in our professional judgment, to have had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit procedures relating to these risks were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of these risks, and we do not express an opinion on these individual risks.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Valuation of insurance liabilities $4,577.3m gross, $3,399.1m net Refer to pages 68 to 69 audit committee report, pages 111 and 113 accounting policy and pages 150 to 159 financial disclosures.
The risk: 87% of the groups liabilities relate to insurance liabilities.
The valuation of insurance liabilities remains the most significant inherent risk in our audit.
The most critical estimate included in insurance liabilities is the estimate for insurance losses incurred but not reported, for which the gross estimate is $2,597.5m and the net estimate is $1,872.8m as at 31 December 2013.
The level of subjectivity in the estimated impact of uncertain or unknown future events: the diversity of risks written by Beazley, and therefore the granular level of reserving that occurs at class of business level: the nature of the specialist classes of business that Beazley underwrites: and particular uncertainty as regards the exposure to extreme losses in the catastrophe book and reserving for new products all serve to increase the level of judgement required and subjectivity inherent in the estimation of insurance liabilities.
Our response: In this area, our audit procedures included, among others: evaluation and testing of key controls around the actuarial reserving process and the data used to determine the quantum of both gross and net insurance liabilities.
This included considerations of matters raised in reserving and underwriting committee meetings: use of our own actuarial specialists to support us in our evaluation of insurance liabilities and in particular the estimate for insurance losses incurred but not reported, and our conclusions over whether the amount calculated by the group lies within an acceptable range: re-projection on a gross and net basis based on quarter 3 data then rolled forward for quarter 4 using our own models for selected significant classes of business, including marine, property and specialty.
We also considered the consistency of the basis for the margin applied to the actuarial estimate year-on-year: discussion and consideration of the reserving assumptions and methodology applied for prudence and consistency, and benchmarking to identify any outliers against our experience of similar accounts in the market place.
Any outliers were then followed up through discussions with the group: and consideration of the quality of historic reserving exercises by tracking the outcome of prior years liabilities provisions by reference to subsequent outturn.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Existence and valuation of investments financial assets at fair value $4,043.6m Refer to page 69 audit committee report, pages 115 to 116 accounting policy and pages 143 to 146 financial disclosures.
The risk: The group holds and manages a significant investment portfolio to meet its obligations under insurance contracts and for shareholder investment purposes.
The size of the portfolio: the exposure to hedge funds: and the strategy employed to increase the allocation of assets with a higher credit risk to improve investment return all contribute to making the existence and valuation of investments a key areas of focus within our audit.
The use and oversight of outsourced service providers remains a key element of the groups approach to investment management.
Our response: In this area, our audit procedures included, among others: assessment of the groups controls for monitoring performance of investments and the data integrity of the investment records: assessment of the identification and subsequent resolution of differences in custodian reconciliations: receipt of external confirmations from custodians of the listed investment portfolio: performance of independent pricing and credit rating checks: inspection of the hedge fund managers valuation reports and consideration of the historical accuracy of these pricing estimates by reference to realized amounts.
We discussed any potential valuation issues with management: and assessment of the allocation of assets into the fair value hierarchy in note 16, placing specific emphasis on the hedge funds and higher credit risk assets where a greater degree of judgment is required in this allocation.
Note 16 provides a description of how the Group values its investments, through application of the fair value hierarchy, as required by accounting standards.
Valuation of other assets reinsurance assets $1,178.2m, insurance receivables $617.7m, intangible assets $91.6m and premium estimates Refer to page 69 audit committee report, pages 110 to 119 accounting policy and pages 139 to 166 financial disclosures.
The risk: The risks in these areas include the valuation of reinsurance assets and insurance receivables, being the recoverability of insurance and reinsurance debtors notes 18, 19 and 24, the valuation of Intangible assets note 12 and the appropriateness of premium estimates.
All of these balances require judgement to be applied by the group to the valuation and, in terms of processing, require manual adjustments to be made, which we consider on a substantive basis.
Our response: As well as the procedures conducted over the insurance liabilities on a net basis, our specific audit procedures to address the risks set out above included, among others: Reinsurance assets and insurance receivables evaluation and testing of key controls over the processes designed to record and monitor insurance and reinsurance debtors: inspection of managements aged analysis for recoveries as at 31 December 2013: understanding the terms of the reinsurance programmes in place and conducting relevant substantive procedures and analytical reviews to assess the reasonableness of the reinsurance assets relative to gross provisions: benchmarking with other market participants where possible e. g. to consider the bad debt provision percentages applied to counterparties and against past experience: and inspection of the manual adjustments substantively, checking back to supporting documentation.
Intangible assets challenge of cash flow models employed by the group in the context of our wider understanding of the business and its strategy: and critical assessment of the discount rates, assumed growth factors and terminal growth rates applied in the calculation of all impairment calculations.
Premium estimates evaluation of controls around premium estimates across the different lines of business: involvement of our actuarial specialists in assessing these amounts where the nature or calculation of the amounts is complex and or judgmental: critical assessment of the approximations involved in recording business written by binders to ensure the methodology remained appropriate in the context of the timing of business written throughout the year: and inspection of the manual adjustments substantively, checking back to supporting documentation.
com Beazley 101 Annual report 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Beazley plc continued Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality is a term used to describe the acceptable level of precision in financial statements.
Auditing standards describe a misstatement or an omission as material if it could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
We identify a monetary amount as materiality for the financial statements as a whole based on this criteria and apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, and in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial statements and in forming our opinion on them.
The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at $20m.
This has been calculated with reference to a benchmark of group gross written premiums of which it represents 1% which we have determined, in our professional judgment, to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial performance of the group.
In assessing for balances other than the insurance and reinsurance technical balances we set materiality more conservatively at $10m.
We agreed with the audit and risk committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with an individual value in excess of $1m $0.5m for non-technical in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audit work to support this opinion is directed by the engagement partner, who signs this report on behalf of the firm, and in the light of the extent of the groups activities in London, is undertaken primarily by an audit team in London.
The audit team in London is led by an audit partner who, together with the engagement partner, attends the audit and risk committee meetings.
In addition, we engaged a KPMG audit team in the US, where Beazley Insurance Company Inc. writes insurance business totaling approximately 8% of gross written premium, to perform specified procedures over certain key balances that we judged to be significant to the group financial statements.
For purposes of the 2013 year end, we did not deem the operations in other overseas territories to be significant enough to require auditing for group reporting purposes.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed under the terms of our engagement is unmodified In addition to our audit of the financial statements, the directors have engaged us to audit the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited, which they have decided to prepare as if the company were required to comply with the requirements of Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 SI 2008 No.
410 made under the UK Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion the directors remuneration report which we were engaged to audit has been properly prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as if those requirements were to apply to the company.
We have nothing to report in respect of matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland require that we report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the statement of corporate governance does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit and risk committee.
Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company: or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
The Listing Rules require us to review: the directors statement, set out on page 58, in relation to going concern: and the part of the corporate governance statement on page 65 relating to the parent companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Responsibilities of our report, responsibilities and restriction on use As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 99, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors.
An audit undertaken in accordance with ISAs UK and Ireland involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Whilst the audit process is designed to provide reasonable assurance of identifying material misstatements or omissions it is not guaranteed to do so.
Rather the auditor plans the audit to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
This testing requires us to conduct significant depth of work on a broad range of assets, liabilities, income and expense as well as devoting significant time of the most experienced members of the audit team, in particular the engagement partner responsible for the audit, to subjective areas of the accounting and reporting.
Our report is made solely to the parent companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the parent companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the parent company and the Parent companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Hubert Crehan for and on behalf of KPMG Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors 1 Harbourmaster Place International Financial Services Centre Dublin 1 Ireland 5 February 2014 www.
com Beazley 103 Annual report 2013 Financial statements 105 Consolidated statement of profit or loss 106 Statement of comprehensive income 107 Statement of changes in equity 108 Statements of financial position 109 Statements of cash flows 110 Notes to the financial statements 167 Glossary 104 Beazley www.
