INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF 18 BH MACRO LIMITED BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of BH Macro Limited Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Fund, obtaining reports and undertaking discussions on key audit findings with the auditor of the Master Fund Opinion on financial statements and the examination of the Master Funds coterminous We have audited the financial statements of BH Macro Limited audited financial statements.
We also considered the the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 which Companys investment valuation policies as disclosed in comprise the Audited Statement of Assets and Liabilities, the Note 3 to the financial statements for compliance with Audited Statement of Operations, the Audited Statement of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States Changes in Net Assets, the Audited Statement of Cash Flows of America.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and accounting Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
In of our audit our opinion, the financial statements: Materiality is a term used to describe the acceptable level of precision in financial statements.
Auditing standards describe a give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs misstatement or an omission as material if it could reasonably as at 31 December 2013 and of its net increase in net assets be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken resulting from operations for the year then ended: on the basis of the financial statements.
The auditor has to apply judgement in identifying whether a misstatement or omission is are in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted material and to do so the auditor identifies a monetary amount as in the United States of America: and materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at Our assessment of risks of material misstatement US$67,400,000.
This has been calculated using a benchmark of The risks of material misstatement detailed in this section of this the Companys net assets which we believe is the key benchmark report are those risks that we have deemed, in our professional used by members of the Company in assessing financial judgement, to have had the greatest effect on: the overall audit performance.
strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit procedures relating We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected to these risks were designed in the context of our audit of the and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit financial statements as a whole.
Our opinion on the financial with a value in excess of US$3,370,000, in addition to other audit statements is not modified with respect to any of these risks, and misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted we do not express an opinion on these individual risks.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements Our assessment of materiality has informed our identification of the risk of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on significant risks of material misstatement and the associated audit our audit was as follows: procedures performed in those areas as detailed above.
Valuation of the investment in the Master Fund: Whilst the audit process is designed to provide reasonable Refer to page 13 of the Report of the Audit Committee and assurance of identifying material misstatements or omissions it is Note 3 Significant accounting policies not guaranteed to do so.
Rather we plan the audit to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low The risk The Company, which is a multi-class feeder fund, level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and had invested 100% of its net assets at 31 December 2013 undetected misstatements does not exceed materiality for the into the ordinary US Dollar, Euro and Sterling denominated financial statements as a whole.
This testing requires us to Class B Shares issued by Brevan Howard Master Fund conduct significant depth of work on a broad range of assets, Limited the Master Fund, which is an open ended liabilities, income and expense as well as devoting significant time investment company.
The Companys investment holdings in of the most experienced members of the audit team, in particular the Master Fund are valued using the respective net asset the Recognised Auditor, to subjective areas of the accounting and value per share class as provided by the Master Funds reporting process.
The valuation of the Companys investment in the Master Fund, given it represents the majority of the net An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and assets of the company, is a significant area of our audit.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Our response Our audit procedures with respect to the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Companys investment in the Master Fund included but assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate were not limited to, obtaining the net asset value per share to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently and holdings per share confirmations for each respective applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant share class directly from the administrator of the Master accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors: and the INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 19 BH MACRO LIMITED overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we the Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual might state to the Companys members those matters we are Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other statements and to identify any information that is apparently purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or report, or for the opinions we have formed.
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland we Statement set out on Page 11, the directors are responsible for are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied acquired during our audit, we have identified other information that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Those standards require us to comply with the UK Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors Lee Clark statement that they consider that the Annual Report and For and on behalf of KPMG Channel Islands Limited financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors understandable and provides the information necessary for 27 March 2014 members to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: or the Report of the Audit Committeee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the Company has not kept proper accounting records: or the financial statemments are not in agreement with the accounting records: or we have not received all the information and explanations, which to the best of our knowledge and belief are necessary for the purpose of our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on Pages 6 to 7 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities The purpose of this report and restrictions on its use by persons other than the Companys members as a body This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and, in respect of any further matters on which we have agreed to report, on terms we have agreed with
