Auditor Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BLUECREST ALLBLUE FUND LIMITED We have audited the financial statements of BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Financial Position, the Statement of Changes in Net Assets Attributable to Shareholders, the Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 16.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 35, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its result for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
57 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Auditor Report Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks of material misstatement that we believed would have the greatest impact on our overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team: valuation of the Companys investments: and ownership and existence of the Companys investments.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality to the individual account or balance level through our determination of performance materiality, which is set to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 8.4m, which is approximately 1% of equity.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Company should be 75% of materiality, namely 6.3m.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.42m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our response to the risks identified above was as follows: we agreed the valuation of the Companys investment to the net asset value published by the administrator of the investee funds: and we obtained confirmation of shareholdings from the administrator of the investee funds and agreed this to the records of the Company.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
58 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Auditor Report In particular we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: proper accounting records have not been kept: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Christopher James Matthews, FCA for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Guernsey, Channel Islands Date: 25 April 2014 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
