Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report To the members of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Opinion on financial statements The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit In our opinion: strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the directing the efforts of the engagement team: state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs the assessment of the Groups calculation of intangible as at 29September 2013 and of the Groups profit for assets, comprising goodwill, client relationships and the period then ended: software development.
This is a complex and the Group financial statements have been properly judgemental process, concerning estimates of future prepared in accordance with International Financial cash flows and growth rates based on managements Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the assessment of future profitability: European Union: the assessment of the Groups calculation of provisions the Parent Company financial statements have been for onerous leases, is a complex and judgemental properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted process due to the uncertainty of future rental receipts: by the European Union and as applied in accordance the calculation of the pension scheme deficit is with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and susceptible to small changes in the underlying the financial statements have been prepared in assumptions and requires significant management accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act judgement in relation to mortality, price inflation, 2006 and as regards the Groups Financial Statements, discount rates, pension increases and earnings growth: Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
no active market exists for the Groups investment in The financial statements comprise the consolidated income Euroclear, making the valuation of this investment a statement, the consolidated and Parent Company statement judgemental process: of financial position, the consolidated statement of the assessment of provisions in relation to outstanding comprehensive income, the consolidated and Parent legal cases and claims, and the associated estimates of Company statement of changes in equity, the consolidated insurance recoveries require significant judgement due statement of cash flows and the related notes 1 to 35.
The to the need to estimate the expenditure required to financial reporting framework that has been applied in their settle the obligations: and preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as regards the parent company the assessment of shares to be issued and deferred financial statements, as applied in accordance with the purchase consideration payable in respect of provisions of the Companies Act 2006. acquisitions of businesses or client relationships.
This requires significant judgements from management due Going concern to the estimates of future earnings from acquisitions and As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the discount rates used.
directors statement on page 26 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: Our application of materiality We determined planning materiality for the Group to be we have not identified material uncertainties related to 2.86m, which is approximately 10% of pre-tax profit, and events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on below 2% of equity.
the Groups ability to continue as a going concern which we believe would need to be disclosed in accordance We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 57,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, we have concluded that managements use of the going warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the the Audit Committee on any disclosure matters that we financial statements is appropriate.
identified when assessing the overall presentation of the However, because not all future events or conditions can be financial statements.
predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the An overview of the scope of our audit Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The majority of the operations of the Group are based in the United Kingdom and are audited by Deloitte LLP.
The only exception to this is Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited, an Irish Company, which represents 4% of pre-tax profit and which is audited by another firm.
We have supervised their work on the figures included in the Groups financial statements for this entity through the issuance of instructions, receipt of summaries of work performed and ongoing dialogue throughout the audit process.
67 Independent Auditors Report continued The way in which we scoped our response to the risks Other matters on which we are required to report by identified above was as follows: exception we challenged the appropriateness of the various inputs Adequacy of explanations received and accounting used by management in their impairment calculations, records and validated these to external information where Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to available.
you if, in our opinion: we assessed in detail managements assumptions in we have not received all the information and respect of the amount of space identified as surplus to explanations we require for our audit: or requirements: the potential income which could be adequate accounting records have not been kept by the earned from sub-letting this space: and the potential parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have time to identify tenants.
not been received from branches not visited by us: or we evaluated the appropriateness of the principal the parent company financial statements are not in actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the agreement with the accounting records and returns.
retirement benefit obligation, using our own actuarial experts to make enquiries of the Groups actuary as to We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
the key assumptions made, and compared these to our Directors remuneration knowledge of market practice.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to we evaluated the appropriateness and consistency of report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors the methodologies used for the valuation of the Groups remuneration have not been made or the part of the investment in Euroclear.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under we challenged managements identification of the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements outstanding legal cases and claims received, reviewed of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to associated legal correspondence and obtained direct report arising from these matters or our review.
confirmation from the Groups legal advisors as to the adequacy of the level of provisions.
We also tested the Corporate Governance Statement acknowledgement of any associated insurance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the recoverable.
part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK we evaluated managements calculation of shares to be Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report issued and deferred purchase consideration and arising from our review.
challenged estimates of future earnings from acquisitions and discount rates used.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out Under the International Standards on Auditing UK and on pages 46 to 47.
Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, Opinions on other matters prescribed by the information in the annual report is: Companies Act 2006 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited In our opinion: financial statements: or the information given in the Strategic Report and the apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Directors Report for the financial period for which the inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired financial statements are prepared is consistent with the in the course of performing our audit: or financial statements: and is otherwise misleading.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with In particular, we are required to consider whether we have the Companies Act 2006. identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
68 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Simon Hardy FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 3 December 2013 69
