REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the members of British Telecommunications plc the company We have audited the parent company financial statements of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the parent company balance sheet, the accounting policies and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 34, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F for the year ended 31 March 2013 to identify material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Report of the directors for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Paul Barkus Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 15 May 2013 90 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Report of the independent auditors Parent company financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES i Accounting basis evenly over the period to which it relates.
Turnover from calls is As used in these financial statements and associated notes, the term recognised at the time the call is made over the companys network.
company refers to British Telecommunications plc BT plc.
These Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for separate financial statements of the company are presented as access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, are required by the Companies Act 2006.
The separate financial recognised as turnover as the service is provided.
Turnover arising statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally from the interconnection of voice and data trafc between other Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis across the companys network.
and under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation of certain financial instruments at fair value.
Equipment sales The opening retained earnings of the earliest reported period have Turnover from the sale of equipment is recognised when all the been restated by 97m to reect the elimination of the trading results significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the of a subsidiary company previously recognised in the companys results.
buyer, which is normally the date the equipment is delivered and There is a corresponding increase in loans from group undertakings.
This accepted by the customer.
has resulted in a reduction to the net assets of the company of 97m.
The companys policy for the recognition of government grants was Long-term contractual arrangements changed from 1 April 2012.
Under the new policy, which is set out on Turnover from long-term contractual arrangements, including xed page 92, assets and operating costs are recognised net of government price contracts to design and build software solutions, is recognised grants receivable.
based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of Before 1 April 2012 government grants were initially recognised as completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to deferred income.
Subsequent to initial recognition grants that the nature of the contract such as the proportion of costs incurred compensated the company for costs incurred were recognised in the relative to the estimated total contract costs, or other measures of profit and loss account within other operating income on a straight line completion such as the achievement of contract milestones and basis over the useful life of the related asset.
In the case of time and materials contracts, Net presentation is considered a more appropriate policy than the turnover is recognised as the service is rendered.
previous gross presentation as it better presents the incremental costs to Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual the business.
The new policy has been applied prospectively and arrangements are expensed as incurred except for an element of costs comparative financial information has not been restated as the impact incurred in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase, of grants on prior period information is immaterial.
which is deferred and recorded within debtors due after more than one year.
These costs are then recognised in the profit and loss Exemptions account on a straight line basis over the remaining contract term, As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the unless the pattern of service delivery indicates a different prole is companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
These costs are directly attributable to specic contracts, The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended relate to future activity, will generate future economic benets and are 31 March 2013 contain a consolidated cash flow statement.
assessed for recoverability on a regular basis.
Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total in FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements, not to present its own cash ow expected contract turnover and costs, as well as reliable measurement statement.
of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the financial The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable certainty, no 31 March 2013 contain related party disclosures.
Consequently, the attributable profit is recognised.
In such circumstances, turnover is company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, Related recognised equal to the costs incurred to date, to the extent that such Party Disclosures, not to disclose transactions with other members turnover is expected to be recoverable, or costs are accrued to bring of the BT Group.
Recognised turnover and profits are subject to The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended revisions during the contract if the assumptions regarding the overall 31 March 2013 contain financial instruments disclosures which comply contract outcome are changed.
The cumulative impact of a revision in with FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Consequently, the estimates is recorded in the period in which such revisions become company is exempted from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29 in likely and can be estimated.
Where the actual and estimated costs to respect of its financial instruments.
completion exceed the estimated turnover for a contract, the full contract life loss is recognised immediately.
ii Turnover Turnover represents the fair value of the consideration received or Multiple element arrangements receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate discounts and sales taxes.
Turnover is recognised when it is probable elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, that the economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to turnover is recognised for each element as if it were an individual the company and the amount of turnover and associated costs can be contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between measured reliably.
Where the company acts as an agent in a the separate elements on the basis of relative fair value and the transaction, it recognises turnover net of directly attributable costs.
appropriate turnover recognition criteria are applied to each element as described above.
Services Turnover arising from separable installation and connection services iii Research and development is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Turnover from the Research expenditure is recognised in the profit and loss account in rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure, including the cost of internally developed software, is recognised in Parent company accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 91 the profit and loss account in the period in which it is incurred unless The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: it is probable that economic benets will ow to the company from Land and buildings the asset being developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably Freehold buildings 40 years measured and technical feasibility can be demonstrated, in which case Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of it is capitalised as an intangible asset on the balance sheet.
lease or 40 years, Capitalisation ceases when the asset being developed is ready for use.
whichever is the shorter Research and development costs include direct and indirect Network infrastructure and other equipment labour, materials and directly attributable overheads.
Transmission equipment: Duct 40 years iv Leases Cable 3 to 25 years The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a Fibre 5 to 20 years lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years an assessment of whether the fullment of the arrangement is Payphones and other network equipment 2 to 20 years dependent on the use of a specic asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
Other Leases of tangible xed assets where the company holds Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years finance leases.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the Software 2 to 10 years commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and respect of future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest recognised prospectively.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are viii Impairment of xed assets, intangible assets and goodwill held by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are Fixed assets, intangible assets and goodwill are tested for impairment charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over if events or changes in circumstances assessed at each reporting the period of the lease.
date indicate that the carrying amount might not be recoverable.
Goodwill is also reviewed for impairment at the end of the first v Foreign currencies financial year after its initial recognition.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the reporting When an impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount is currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the assessed by reference to the higher of the net present value of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the expected future cash ows value in use of the continued use of the settlement of transactions and the translation of monetary assets and asset, and the fair value less cost to sell.
Impairment losses are liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end exchange recognised in the profit and loss account.
rates are recognised in the profit and loss account in the line that most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
ix Government grants Our policy for government grants changed from 1 April 2012 as vi Goodwill explained on page 91.
Government grants are recognised when Goodwill arising from the purchase of businesses represents the there is reasonable assurance that the conditions associated with the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair grants have been complied with and the grants will be received.
value of the identiable net assets acquired.
Grants for the purchase or production of xed assets are deducted Goodwill is amortised on a straight line basis from the time of from the cost of the related assets and reduce future depreciation acquisition over its useful economic life.
The economic life is normally expense accordingly.
Grants for the reimbursement of operating presumed to be a maximum of 20 years.
expenditure are deducted from the related category of costs in the If a business is subsequently sold, the appropriate unamortised profit and loss account.
Government grants received relating to goodwill is included in the profit and loss account in the period of future expenditure are recognised as payments received in advance disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
vii Tangible xed assets x Investments in subsidiary undertakings Tangible xed assets are stated at historical cost, net of any Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost and accumulated depreciation, government grants and any impairment reviewed for impairment if there are indicators that the carrying value charges.
On disposal of tangible xed assets, the difference between may not be recoverable.
the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date of disposal is recorded in other operating income in the profit and loss account.
xi Stocks Included within the cost of network infrastructure and equipment Stocks mainly comprise items of equipment held for sale or rental and are direct and indirect labour costs, materials, and directly consumable items.
Depreciation is provided on tangible xed Equipment and consumable items are stated at the lower of cost assets on a straight line basis from the time the asset is available for and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for obsolescence.
use, to write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
into account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
92 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Parent company accounting policies xii Programme rights Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any other Programme rights are recognised on the balance sheet from the point conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken into at which the legally enforceable licence period begins.
Rights for account to determine the fair value of equity instruments granted.
In which the licence period has not started are disclosed as contractual the case that an award or option does not vest as a result of a failure commitments in note 14.
Payments made to receive commissioned or to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control acquired programming in advance of the legal right to broadcast the of either counterparty, this is accounted for as a cancellation.
programmes are classied as prepayments.
Cancellations are treated as accelerated vesting and all remaining Programme rights are initially recognised at cost and are future charges are immediately recognised in the profit and loss amortised from the point at which they are available for use, on a account.
As the requirement to save under an employee sharesave straight line basis over the programming period, or the remaining arrangement is a non-vesting condition, employee cancellations are licence term, as appropriate.
The amortisation charge is recorded treated as an accelerated vesting.
within operating costs in the profit and loss account.
Awards that lapse or are forfeited result in a credit to the profit Programmes produced internally are recognised within current and loss account reversing the previously recognised charges in the assets at production cost, which includes labour costs and an year in which they lapse or are forfeited.
appropriate portion of relevant overheads, and charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the related broadcast.
xvi Current and deferred income tax Programme rights are tested for impairment in accordance with Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted the companys policy for impairment of xed assets, intangible assets or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The company and goodwill set out on page 92. periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to xiii Redundancy costs interpretation, and the company establishes provisions where Redundancy or leaver costs are payable when employment is appropriate on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee tax authorities.
accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The Deferred tax is recognised, in respect of timing differences company recognises redundancy or leaver costs when it is between the carrying amount of the companys assets and liabilities demonstrably committed to the affected employees leaving the and their tax base.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on company.
the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in xiv Post retirement benets the foreseeable future against which the deductible timing difference The companys obligation in respect of dened benefit pension plans can be utilised.
is the present value of the dened benefit pension obligation less the Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to fair value of the plan assets.
The calculation of the obligation is apply in periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, based performed by a qualied actuary using the projected unit credit on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively method and key actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax balances are not The profit and loss account charge is allocated between an discounted.
operating charge and net finance income or expense.
The operating charge reects the increase in the dened benefit obligation resulting xvii Dividends from pension benefit earned by active employees in the current Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the year in which period.
The net finance income reects the expected return on the the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim assets of the plan offset by the unwinding of the discount applied to dividends are recognised when they are paid: final dividends when the liabilities of the plan, based on conditions prevailing at the start authorised in general meetings by shareholders.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are presented in the reconciliation of xviii Provisions movement in equity shareholders funds.
Provisions are recognised when the company has a present legal or The company also operates dened contribution pension schemes constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that and the profit and loss account charge represents the contributions an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and payable for the year.
the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that xv Share-based payments reects current market assessments of the time value of money and The ultimate parent of BT plc, BT Group plc, operates a number of the risks specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions equity settled share-based arrangements, as detailed in note 19 to are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at the BT plc consolidated financial statements, under which the amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease company receives services from employees as consideration for provisions have been measured at the lower of the cost to full or the equity instruments share options and shares of BT Group plc.
Equity cost to exit the contract.
settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant excluding the effect of non market-based vesting xix Financial instruments conditions but including any market-based performance criteria and Financial assets the impact of non-vesting conditions for example the requirement Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss for employees to save.
The fair value determined at the grant date is A financial asset is classied in this category if it is either acquired recognised as an expense on a straight line basis over the vesting principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term held for period, based on the companys estimate of the options or shares that trading or if so designated by management.
Financial assets at fair will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based value through profit and loss are initially recognised and vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the Binomial subsequently measured at fair value, with changes in value options pricing model or Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is most recognised in the profit and loss account.
Any direct transaction costs appropriate to the share-based payment arrangement.
are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Parent company accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 93 Loans and receivables amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation of the Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or hedge, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market other than those for which the company may not recover substantially all Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting of its initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, The company uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce which are classied as available-for-sale.
Loans and receivables are exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The company initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge method, with changes in carrying value recognised in the profit and accounting are classied as held for trading and are initially loss account.
recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Fixed asset investments profit and loss account in net finance expense.
Derivative financial Fixed asset investments are stated at cost net of permanent instruments are classied as current assets or current liabilities where diminution in value.
they have a maturity period within 12 months.
Where derivative financial instruments have a maturity period greater than 12 months, Available-for-sale financial assets they are classied within either xed assets or creditors falling due Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are after more than one year.
either specically designated in this category or not classied in Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are any resultant gain or loss depends upon the nature of the hedge.
initially recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and then To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, with prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly unrealised gains and losses except for changes in exchange rates for effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment losses, which are for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in which the recognised in the profit and loss account recognised in equity until hedge remains in operation.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the financial asset is derecognised, at which time the cumulative the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or no longer gain or loss previously recognised in equity is taken to the profit and qualies for hedge accounting or the company chooses to end the loss account in the line that most appropriately reects the nature of hedge relationship.
The group designates certain derivatives as either the item or transaction.
cash ow hedges or fair value hedges.
Debtors Cash ow hedges Financial assets within debtors are initially recognised at fair value, When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the which is usually the original invoiced amount, and are subsequently variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the provisions made for doubtful debts.
Provisions are made specically derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity in the where there is evidence of a risk of non payment, taking into account cash ow reserve.
For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or ageing, previous losses experienced and general economic conditions.
liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the same line in the profit and loss account Cash in the same period or periods that the hedged transaction affects the Cash includes cash in hand and bank deposits repayable on demand.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a recognised asset or liability is recognised immediately in Impairment of financial assets the profit and loss.
Where ineffectiveness arises on highly probable The company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial transactions, it is recognised in the profit and loss account line that asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
Where there is most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
objective evidence that an impairment loss has arisen on assets carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is reduced with the Fair value hedges loss being recognised in the profit and loss account.
The impairment When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of loss is measured as the difference between that assets carrying the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows unrecognised rm commitment, the change in fair value of the discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge is recorded in the profit and loss account at each reporting date, together with any Financial liabilities changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is Creditors attributable to the hedged risk.
Financial liabilities within creditors are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, and Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of currency method.
instruments designated as hedges of net investments in a foreign operation are taken to shareholders equity on consolidation to the Loans and other borrowings extent that the hedges are deemed effective.
Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus Any ineffectiveness arising on a hedge of a net investment in a directly attributable transaction costs.
Loans and other borrowings foreign operation is recognised in net finance expense.
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge relationship, are re-valued to reect the fair value movements on the hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The resulting 94 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Parent company accounting policies
