Independent auditors report To the Members of Bodycote plc Opinion on financial statements of Bodycote plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Statement of Group and Company Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 28 and 1 to 11 for the Group and Company financial statements respectively.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 23 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of non current assets Given the Groups significant asset base and the continued We challenged the assumptions used in the impairment model macro-economic uncertainties in certain global territories, this risk for intangible and tangible assets, described in note 10.
As part concerns the carrying value of intangible and tangible fixed assets.
of our procedures we considered historical trading performance The Groups assessment of the carrying value of intangible and by comparing recent growth rates of both revenue and operating tangible fixed assets requires significant judgement, as described in profit across the Groups geographical and market segments, note 10 with particular attention to cash flow, growth rates, discount assessing the appropriateness of the assumptions concerning rates and sensitivity assumptions.
growth rates and inputs to the discount rate against latest market expectations, and considering managements assertions of the future utilisation of assets by the Group following a review of the strategic plan for the business by CGU.
In performing our procedures, we used our internal valuation specialists and third party evidence to assess the appropriateness of the discount rate applied.
Environmental provisions Given the nature of the Groups operations, a risk arises in We evaluated the environmental provisions, as detailed in note connection with the appropriateness, completeness and valuation 22 to the financial statements, by testing the basis for the of environmental provisions, in particular, their judgemental nature recognition of provisions in consideration of those regulatory relative to the likely period of utilisation.
and legal requirements, assessing the value of the provision recognised and challenging the status and utilisation of provisions.
As part of our audit procedures we reviewed third party evidence and assumptions detailing the assessment of environmental liabilities for the Group together with correspondence from the Groups internal environmental remediation team.
As part of these procedures we also challenged the qualifications of managements experts.
Where applicable, we also corroborated environmental provisions to regulatory and legal correspondence.
com 23065.02 11 March 2014 9:16 AM Design Shell Additional Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Independent auditors report continued To the Members of Bodycote plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Taxation The tax risk concerns the judgements and estimates applied in In conjunction with taxation audit specialists, we have the determination of tax balances, in particular in relation to the considered and challenged the appropriateness of managements recognition of deferred tax assets for tax losses across the Group assumptions, forecasts and estimates in relation to the likelihood as disclosed in note 19 and provisions for liabilities attributed to of generating future taxable, as opposed to accounting, profits to specific uncertain tax positions linked to the Groups complex support the recognition of deferred tax assets as disclosed in note corporate structure.
We have also assessed the assumptions and judgements concerning the adequacy of tax provisions for uncertain tax positions by viewing the latest correspondence from the different tax authorities and drawing on the experience of our country specialists in respect of similar situations.
Pensions This risk concerns the appropriateness of actuarial assumptions We have considered the appropriateness of the assumptions in calculating the Groups IAS 19 liability.
The valuation of the underpinning the valuation of scheme assets and liabilities.
Groups IAS 19 deficit involves significant judgement as described Specifically we challenged the discount rate, inflation and mortality in note 28, in particular in relation to the discount rate, inflation and assumptions applied in calculating the scheme liabilities by using mortality assumptions.
our internal pension specialists to assess and benchmark the assumptions applied against comparable third party data.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 44.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality Revenue We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 6.8 million, which is below 7.5% of adjusted pre-tax profit and 1% of equity.
We use adjusted pre-tax profit to exclude the effect of volatility from our determination.
Adjusted pre-tax profit excludes non-recurring exceptional items of 0.8 million as disclosed in note 3.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 145,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial Full audit scope 86% statements.
Review at group level 14% An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, Profit before tax including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 15 locations.
In addition, following the reorganisation of a number of the Groups finance functions into a Shared Service Centre in Prague, we planned and performed our audit work and the shape of audit teams for the countries affected to focus on direct Group oversight, leadership and control in the first year of transition.
As a consequence of the audit scope determined, we achieved full scope coverage of approximately 86% of revenue, 93% of profit before tax, and 87% of net assets.
Our audit work at each location was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which was lower than Group materiality.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the locations included as full scope for the Group audit at least once every three years and the most Full audit scope 93% significant of them at least once a year.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, Review at group level 7% attend close meetings by conference call and video conferencing and review documentation of the findings from their work.
64 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2013 23065.02 11 March 2014 9:16 AM Design Shell Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, and reviews by our strategically focused second partner and independent partner.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Nicola Mitchell Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Manchester United Kingdom 27 February 2014 65 Stock code: BOY www.
com 23065.02 11 March 2014 9:16 AM Design Shell Additional Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
