Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Direct Line Insurance Group plc Opinion on the financial statements of Direct Line Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued Insurance Group plc by the IASB In our opinion: As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply the financial statements give a true and fair view of the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for Standards Board IASB.
the year then ended: In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs the Group financial statements have been properly prepared as issued by the IASB.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Going concern the Parent Company financial statements have been As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Directors statement on page 102 that the Group is a going by the European Union and as applied in accordance concern.
We confirm that: with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and we have concluded that the Directors use of the going the financial statements have been prepared in accordance concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, financial statements is appropriate: and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the we have not identified any material uncertainties that may IAS Regulation.
cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive However, because not all future events or conditions can be income, the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets, predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups the consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statements, ability to continue as a going concern.
the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 40 on the consolidated Our assessment of risks of material misstatement financial statements, and the related notes 1 to 16 on the The assessed risks of material misstatement described below Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the engagement team.
the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The methodology and assumptions used in setting We have tested the design and implementation and operating effectiveness of the key controls over the end to end reserving process insurance reserves engaging our internal actuarial specialists where appropriate.
The determination of the value of the insurance reserves requires significant judgment in the In addition we have: selection of key assumptions and methodology.
Management makes significant judgement in tested the completeness and accuracy of the underlying data used: respect of the trends in bodily injury claims considered the suitability of the methodology used in setting frequency and severity, the propensity for large insurance reserves: and claims to settle as PPOs, the Ogden discount rate consultation and other regulatory developments.
challenged managements key assumptions and judgements against industry benchmarks.
Our work included assessing whether the reserving methodology has been applied consistently across periods.
We have also performed work to understand the sensitivity of insurance reserves to changes in key assumptions and methodology.
The valuation of investments including complex We have performed audit procedures over the valuation and accounting of investments held by the Group.
We have tested the financial instruments and their accounting design and implementation and operating effectiveness of the key treatment in accordance with IAS 39 and IFRS 13 The valuation of financial investments held at fair controls over the investment valuation process.
value utilises a range of inputs.
Many of the inputs On a sample basis we have tested their valuation at the year end.
required can be obtained from readily available, We also performed a review of sources and systems used by the liquid market prices and rates.
Where observable Group for valuation and compared valuations to those obtained from market data is not available, for example, when more than one independent source or recalculated them.
We also determining the valuation of investment property, engaged our valuation specialists where appropriate and checked that estimates must be developed based on the most the disclosure requirements of IAS 39 and IFRS 13 were appropriately appropriate source data and are subject to addressed.
We have also tested the Groups compliance with the significant judgement.
accounting rules for complex financial instruments.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 105 Independent auditors report to the members of Direct Line Insurance Group plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Transformation projects We have tested the design and implementation and operating effectiveness There is a risk that the business transformation of key business processes that have been subject to change.
We have programmes undertaken by the Group could tested to determine whether appropriate segregation of duties exists negatively impact the internal financial reporting within the Groups system of internal controls.
For example, the procedures control environment, in particular in areas of included an assessment of the wider implementation of the new the business where there has been significant claims system.
headcount reduction or new processes and procedures.
There is a risk that there may no longer be an appropriate level of review and adequate segregation of duties.
Reinsurance asset valuation We have tested the design and implementation and operating The valuation of the reinsurance asset in respect effectiveness of the key controls over the reinsurance asset valuation of the ceded part of the insurance reserves requires process.
We have challenged managements key assumptions over counterparty risk and the calculation methodology, including significant judgement to reflect the counterparty risk a comparison of the underlying credit ratings for key reinsurance exposure to long-term assets arising from PPOs.
We have also considered the consistency of the approach with the prior year.
Revenue recognition We have tested the design and implementation and operating International Standard on Auditing 240 UK and effectiveness of the key controls over revenue recognition, focusing Ireland state this risk must always be treated as on the flow of information from the underwriting systems to the financial significant.
We focus on the completeness of the reporting ledger.
In addition, we performed substantive analytical revenue recorded in the financial statements and the testing procedures on the gross and unearned premium balances.
flow of premium information from the underwriting systems to the financial reporting ledger.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out An overview of the scope of our audit on page 67.
The scope of our group audit was determined by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts we focused our group audit scope on the audit work at three or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not primary operating locations the UK, Italy and Germany.
modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Four entities at these locations were subject to a full audit, a further two were subject to an audit of specified account Our application of materiality balances where the extent of our testing was based on our We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be These six entities represent the principal business units and changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning account for 98% of the Groups net assets, 99% of the the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results Groups revenue and 95% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material We determined materiality for the Group to be 40 million, misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the three which is below 10% of normalised pre-tax profit, and below locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to 1.5% of equity.
Pre-tax profit was normalised by taking the each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
average pre-tax profit from ongoing operations, which excludes the impact of discontinued activities and the transformation At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation costs, for current year and the previous two years to exclude process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm the effect of year-on-year volatility from our determination.
our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 800,000, account balances.
as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to The group audit team followed a programme of planned visits the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
visits each of the locations where the group audit scope was focused at least once a year.
106 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Respective responsibilities of Directors Companies Act 2006 and auditor In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give has been properly prepared in accordance with the a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express Companies Act 2006: and an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with report for the financial year for which the financial statements the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Matters on which we are required to report Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools by exception aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report include our dedicated professional standards review team, to you if, in our opinion: strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have so that we might state to the Companys members those matters not been received from branches not visited by us: or we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for the Parent Company financial statements are not in no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do agreement with the accounting records and returns.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Directors remuneration Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
We have nothing to report This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies arising from these matters.
are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Corporate governance statement adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall part of the corporate governance statement relating to presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited arising from our review.
financial statements and to identify any information that is Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent in the Annual Report is: material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or David Rush Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP otherwise misleading.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor In particular, we are required to consider whether we have London, United Kingdom identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 25 February 2014 acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 107
