Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 independent auditors report to the MeMBers oF BooKer Group plC we have audited the financial statements of Booker Group plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by for the 52 week period ended 29 March 2013 set out on pages the Companies Act 2006 42 to 75. the financial reporting framework that has been applied in our opinion: in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and international Financial reporting standards iFrss as the part of the directors remuneration report to be adopted by the eu.
the financial reporting framework that has audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the been applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial Companies act 2006: statements is applicable law and uK accounting standards uK the information given in the directors report for the financial Generally accepted accounting practice.
period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements:and this report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of part 16 of the the information given in the Corporate Governance Companies act 2006. our audit work has been undertaken so statement with respect to internal control and risk that we might state to the Companys members those matters management systems in relation to financial processes we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for and about share capital structure is consistent with the no other purpose.
to the fullest extent permitted by law, we do financial statements.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Matters on which we are required to report Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our by exception audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
we have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of directors under the Companies act 2006 we are required to report to and auditor you if, in our opinion: as explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 75, the directors are responsible adequate accounting records have not been kept by the for the preparation of the financial statements and for being parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
our responsibility been received from branches not visited by us: or is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements the parent Company financial statements and the part of in accordance with applicable law and international standards the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in on auditing uK and ireland.
those standards require us to agreement with the accounting records and returns: or comply with the auditing practices Boards ethical standards for auditors.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations a description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is we require for our audit: or provided on the Financial reporting Councils website at www.
a Corporate Governance statement has not been prepared frc.
Opinion on financial statements under the listing rules we are required to review: in our opinion: the directors statement, set out on page 47, in relation to the financial statements give a true and fair view of the going concern: state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 29 March 2013 and of the groups profit for the 52 the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating weeks then ended: to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the uK Corporate Governance Code specified for our the Group financial statements have been properly prepared review: and in accordance with iFrss as adopted by the eu: certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board the parent Company financial statements have been on directors remuneration.
properly prepared in accordance with uK Generally accepted accounting practice: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Nicola Quayle with the requirements of the Companies act 2006: and, as Senior Statutory Auditor regards the Group financial statements, article 4 of the for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor ias regulation.
st. James square Manchester M2 6ds 22 May 2013 76
