Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Electra Private Equity PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
What we have audited The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements, which are prepared by Electra Private Equity PLC, comprise: the Group and Parent Company balance sheets as at 30 September 2013: the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group and Parent Company statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
What an audit of financial statements involves We,  LLP, are the group engagement team and conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements.
We also took into account that matters below these thresholds may still be considered material for qualitative reasons.
Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 18 million, which is based on net assets.
59 We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.9 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group has one line of business being investment primarily in the private equity sector.
The Group comprises three principal companies through which the investment business is carried out, and a number of dormant companies.
We audit each of these three principal companies and this, together with the procedures we have performed over the consolidation, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Areas of particular audit focus In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgments, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of unlisted and fund The investments are initially valued by an independent investments investment manager the Manager and then subject to review and challenge by the Groups Valuations Committee.
We attend We focused on this area because the Valuations Committee meeting to observe this process.
it involves complex and subjective judgments by the directors about the fair value of investments held We tested the techniques that the Manager used to fair value by the Group.
Refer to Note 13 to investments including recent transactions and models that use the financial statements.
comparable company earnings, per share multiples and investee company management accounts as the key input.
Where a recent transaction has been used as a source to fair value investments, we challenged the Manager if there are any changes or events subsequent to the relevant transaction that would imply a change in the investments fair value.
When the Manager used a model to fair value an investment, we tested the Managers model, by considering the appropriateness of the model used, the reasonableness of the assumptions and the data used, and the mathematical accuracy.
We challenged the Managers key assumptions on the selection of comparable companies and the use of appropriate multiples for maintainable earnings.
Recognition of investment We reviewed the accounting policy for income recognition for income net gain compliance with accounting standards and tested that income International Standards on has been accounted for in accordance with this policy by Auditing UK & Ireland presume reviewing the allocation to revenue or capital in the income there is a risk of fraud in revenue statement.
As income includes unrealised gains for investments recognition.
Due to the potential held, which are derived from investment valuations, refer to for manipulation of net gains on Valuation of Investments section above for further details.
investments, we focused on judgements relating to investment valuations and income recognition Risk of management override of We tested manual journal entries.
We considered whether there internal controls was evidence of bias by the directors and the Manager in the significant accounting estimates and judgments relevant to the Auditing standards require that we financial statements.
We also assessed the relevant controls with consider this.
the Manager and we built unpredictability into our audit procedures.
60 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus We reviewed the Priority Profit Share PPS and incentive Provision for incentive schemes scheme provision calculation methodology for consistency with The provision for incentive management agreements.
We also reviewed the reasonableness schemes is determined to be an elevated risk because it involves a of the inputs used in the PPS and incentive scheme provision certain level of complexity and calculations and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations.
judgement in arriving at the provision amount for each scheme.
In addition, this is a sensitive number as it forms part of remuneration paid to the Manager.
The Audit Committees report on those matters above that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 80 to 81.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the report of the directors, set out on pages 63 to 69, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Parent Companys financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 75 to 79 in the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
