Strategic Report Independent auditors report to the members of Governance esure Group plc only Financial Statements Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit of credit default issues on reported claims, however credit risk 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodi ed is relevant for the recoveries associated with the technical We have audited the financial statements of esure Group plc provisions that have a long duration.
for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 67 Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, to 112.
In our opinion: testing governance and key controls around the reserving the financial statements give a true and fair view of the process, including controls over the setting of reserves for state of the Groups and of the parent companys a airs as reported claims, and controls over the completeness and at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups pro t for the year accuracy of the data used to perform the actuarial projections then ended: used to set the reserve for IBNR.
the Group financial statements have been properly Through reading of relevant documentation and discussion prepared in accordance with International Financial with both management and the external actuary, we have Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: obtained an understanding of the reserving methodology and the key assumptions used including the in ation rate the parent company financial statements have been used for the average cost of small bodily injury claims and properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting the discount rate used for the periodic payment orders, and Standards: and we have assessed these for appropriateness, and for their the financial statements have been prepared in accordance consistency with prior periods.
We considered the movement with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, in reserves relating to claims incurred in prior years to assess as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the the appropriateness of managements past assumptions IAS Regulation.
and the methodology used to estimate claims outstanding.
Where there are changes in the methodology or key 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement assumptions we have assessed whether these are reasonable In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial based on changes in the industry and the groups historical statements the risks of material misstatement that had claims experience, and have considered whether all changes the greatest e ect on our audit were as follows: we would expect to see have been made.
Technical Provisions Claims outstanding 659.1m and We benchmarked the groups methodology, key assumptions, claims outstanding recoverable from reinsurers 208.5m and projected results such as the ultimate loss ratios against Refer to page 41 Audit Committee Report, page 77 accounting our cumulative knowledge of the sector.
policy and pages 96 to 100 financial disclosures In respect of the margin that the Directors have set over the The risk As part of its business model the group incurs actuarial best estimate, we considered the consistency of signi cant claims.
There is typically a time lag between a the basis for the margin applied to the actuarial estimate claim being incurred and being settled.
As a result, the Group year-on-year.
This included an assessment of the potential has signi cant claims outstanding at any point in time, uncertainties that have been reserved for within the margin.
including the year-end, and there is inherent uncertainty as We also evaluated the competence, capabilities and to the level at which these claims outstanding will be settled.
objectivity of the external actuary, based on discussions At 31 December 2013 the Group had claims outstanding with them, our experience with their previous work, our representing 66% of total liabilities, and claims outstanding knowledge of the actuarys quali cations and the professional recoverable from reinsurers, representing 16% of total assets.
standards that their work is subject to, and by providing The valuation of claims outstanding is one of the key challenge to their analysis through the procedures described judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on, due to the above.
We used our own actuarial specialists to assist in level of subjectivity inherent in the estimation of the e ect of performing the procedures described.
uncertain or unknown future events and the resulting potential We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups exposure to large losses, including those arising from periodic disclosures about the degree of estimation and the sensitivity payment orders for Motor insurance a structured settlement of recognised amounts to changes in assumptions, and in the form of a regular series of payments over the remainder assessed whether the disclosures comply with relevant of a claimants life, see page 97 and extreme weather losses accounting standards.
The calculation of claims outstanding is complex and requires the use of actuarial techniques to We evaluated and tested key controls around reinsurers estimate the reserve for claims incurred but not reported share of claims outstanding, including controls over approval IBNR.
The Directors set the claims outstanding reserves of reinsurance contracts and calculation of reinsurance at a level that they consider includes an appropriate margin recoveries, and reinsurance credit controls.
We used our over the actuarial best estimate, in order to take account of actuarial specialists to assist in evaluating the appropriateness current uncertainties around factors that may in uence the of reinsurance recoveries on IBNR by considering the historical value of reserves.
ratios of paid and reported claims net of reinsurance recoveries to paid and reported claims gross of reinsurance The valuation of claims outstanding recoverable from recoveries.
We have also obtained an understanding of reinsurers is dependent on the valuation of the underlying the methodology applied to calculate the allowance for claims outstanding and as a result is subject to the same reinsurance bad debt which is included within claims estimation uncertainties as the claims outstanding.
outstanding, and we have assessed the methodology for Reinsurance recoveries are also subject to credit risk appropriateness and consistency with prior periods.
associated with reinsurer credit default.
There are no indicators esure Group Annual Report 2013 65 Independent auditors report to the members of esure Group plc only continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope In particular, we are required to report to you if: of our audit we have identi ed material inconsistencies between the The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors was set at 8.3m.
This has been determined with reference statement that they consider that the Annual Report and to a benchmark of Group pro t before taxation of which it financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and represents 7% which we consider to be one of the principal understandable and provides the information necessary for considerations for members of the Company in assessing the shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business financial performance of the Group.
model and strategy: or We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all the Corporate Governance Report does not appropriately corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identi ed address matters communicated by us to the Audit through our audit with a value in excess of 0.4m, in addition Committee.
to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Audits for group reporting purposes were performed for all key reporting components material subsidiaries or joint ventures.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes were parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not undertaken by the group audit team for the majority of the been received from branches not visited by us: or key locations, with the exception of Gocompare.
com Holdings the parent company financial statements and the part of Limited where the audit was undertaken by component the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not auditors a separate audit team in the UK that reported their in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or findings to the group audit team.
These Group procedures covered 100% of total Group revenue: 100% of Group pro t certain disclosures of Directors remuneration speci ed by before taxation: and 100% of total Group assets as audits law are not made: or were performed for all key components.
we have not received all the information and explanations Detailed audit instructions were sent to the component we require for our audit.
These instructions covered the signi cant audit Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: areas that should be covered by this audit which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above the Directors statement, set out on page 62, in relation to and set out the information required to be reported back to going concern: and the group audit team.
com Holdings Limited is the part of the Corporate governance report on pages 36 not an insurance company, Technical Provisions as set out in to 47 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine section 2 above is not a signi cant risk for the audit of that provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code component of the Group.
The group audit team also held speci ed for our review.
meetings with the component auditors.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes were responsibilities.
all performed to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the group audit team.
These materiality levels were set Scope of report and responsibilities individually for each component and ranged from 0.1m As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors to 5.7m.
Responsibilities set out on page 64, the Directors are 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies responsible for the preparation of the financial statements Act 2006 is unmodi ed and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
In our opinion: A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be www.
This report is made audited has been properly prepared in accordance with solely to the companys members as a body and is subject the Companies Act 2006: and to important explanations and disclaimers regarding the information given in the Strategic Report and our responsibilities, published on our website at Directors Report for the financial year for which the www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are financial statements are prepared is consistent with the incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be financial statements.
read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, Murray Raisbeck Senior Statutory Auditor based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor have identi ed other information in the annual report that Chartered Accountants contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge 15 Canada Square or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, London E14 5GL or that which is otherwise misleading.
10 March 2014 esure Group Annual Report 2013 66
