Independent auditors report to the members of Bovis Homes Group PLC Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit to sales prices achieved and list prices of comparable houses 1 Our opinion on the financial statements as published by estate agents.
We compared sales price trends is unmodified forecast recorded in the appraisals to published indices.
We have audited the financial statements of Bovis Homes plc for We also challenged the groups forecast of build cost per the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 75 to 100. square foot by comparing to the build costs for similar units on In our opinion: other sites and where there were differences we corroborated managements explanations to subcontractor quotes.
Our audit the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state work was focused on low margin sites which are considered of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at to have the most sensitivity to the Directors assumptions.
31 December 2013 and of the groups profit for the year We also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures then ended: in respect of the provision held against inventory carried at net the group financial statements have been properly prepared realisable value.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Valuation of available for sale financial assets shared Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as equity 44.8 million adopted by the EU : Refer to page 63 Audit committee report, page 85 accounting the parent company financial statements have been properly policy and pages 86 and 90 financial disclosures.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the The risk - Available for sale financial assets are amounts Companies Act 2006: and receivable on extended terms granted as part of a sales transaction where the final amount repayable is dependent the financial statements have been prepared in accordance upon the value of the house at the repayment date and are with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, carried at fair value.
The valuation method for these assets is as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the not based upon observable market data.
Hence, the group IAS Regulation.
uses a valuation model for which a number of assumptions 2 Our assessment of risks of material have to be made, the key ones being expected house price misstatement movements and the discount rate reflecting, inter alia, the time value of money and the risk that the borrower is unable In arriving at our audit opinion above on the group financial to repay the amount receivable.
Changes in the assumptions statements the risks of material misstatement that had the used could have a material effect on the output of the greatest effect on our group audit were as follows: valuation model and hence on the carrying value of the assets.
Net realisable value of inventories 971.0 million Our response - Our audit procedures in this area included, Refer to page 63 Audit committee report, page 83 accounting among others, comparing the discount rate used in the policy and page 83 financial disclosures.
valuation model to our own research on private transactions The risk - Inventories, which principally comprise the groups in mortgage and secured loans portfolios with assistance land held for development and work in progress, are stated from our own valuation specialist and house price at the lower of cost and net realisable value i. e. the forecast movements to house price forecasts published by real selling price less the remaining costs to build and sell.
We challenged the groups estimate of the An assessment of the net realisable value of inventory is fair value by checking profits losses earned from redemptions carried out at each balance sheet date and is dependent upon in the year and assessing how the experience to date had the groups estimate of forecast selling prices and build costs been included as part of the reassessment of assumptions.
by reference to current prices.
48.6 million of inventory is We also re-performed the groups sensitivity analysis on the held at net realisable value.
Accordingly, a change in the valuation and assessed whether the groups disclosures about groups estimate of sales price and build cost could have a the sensitivity of the outcome of the valuation to changes in material impact on the carrying value of inventories in the key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the groups financial statements.
valuation of available for sale assets.
Our response - Our audit procedures in this area included, among others, challenging the groups forecast sales prices by comparing the forecast sales price of a sample of houses 72 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Auditors report Our governance the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address 3 Our application of materiality and an overview matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
of the scope of our audit The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, set at 3.9 million.
This has been determined with reference to a in our opinion: benchmark of group profit before taxation of which it represents adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 5% which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been members of the company in assessing the financial performance of received from branches not visited by us: or the group.
the parent company financial statements and the part of We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all uncorrected the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or excess of 0.2 million, in addition to other audit misstatements certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on not made: or qualitative grounds.
In addition we considered whether any misstatements corrected by management identified during we have not received all the information and explanations we the course of the audit should be communicated to the Audit require for our audit.
Committee to assist it in fulfilling its governance responsibilities.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The groups operations are all accounted for at the groups head the directors statement, set out on page 39, in relation to going office in New Ash Green, Kent.
The group audit team performed concern: and the audit of the group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed using the materiality the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 33 level set out above and covered 100% of total group revenue: to 41 relating to the companys compliance with the nine group profit before taxation: and total group assets.
Visits were provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified made to regional offices for the purposes of performing tests of for our review.
controls or making enquiries of regional management.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Scope of report and responsibilities Companies Act 2006 is unmodified As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement In our opinion: set out on page 70, the directors are responsible for the preparation the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of 2006: and financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to Report for the financial year for which the financial statements important explanations and disclaimers regarding our are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if 5 We have nothing to report in respect of set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of matters on which we are required to report the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the by exception basis of our opinions.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains Stephen Wardell a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Senior Statutory Auditor financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor otherwise misleading.
Chartered Accountants In particular, we are required to report to you if: London 21 February 2014 we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or Bovis Homes Group PLC | 73 74 | Annual report and accounts | Financial statements 2013 Financial statements
