ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 53 Independent Auditors Report to the members of F&C Asset Management plc only described in note 14, as well as performing a break even Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit analysis on key assumptions.
We compared the sum of the 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is value in use calculations to the market capitalisation of the unmodified Group to assess whether the projected cash flows are We have audited the Financial Statements of F&C Asset Management supported by market prices.
The Other Financial Liabilities plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 57 to section below considers the consistency of the calculation of 136 and 141 to 153.
In our opinion: value in use for testing the carrying value of goodwill in the F&C REIT CGU with that of its fair value for the liability valuation.
the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state During this process we considered the impact of the of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at consolidated value in use against the parent Company 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year investment in subsidiary value.
We also assessed whether the then ended: Groups disclosures regarding the sensitivity of the outcome of the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
adopted by the European Union: the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly Management Contract Intangible Assets 43.1m per note 14 prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and Refer to page 28 Audit and Compliance Committee Report, page 66 the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance accounting policy and pages 84 to 87 financial disclosures with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as The Risk There is a risk that the value attached to regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS management contracts is materially misstated due to the Regulation.
inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting assets under 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement management and implied fee rates.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial Statements Our Response In this area, our audit procedures included, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our among others, identifying business activities and any relevant audit were as follows: events in the year against the Groups assessment for indicators of impairment of the management contract assets.
We Goodwill 611.9m per note 14 assessed the impairment indicators calculated through a Refer to page 28 Audit and Compliance Committee Report, pages comparison of annualised revenue on assets under 65 and 66 accounting policy and pages 84 to 87 financial management outflows against the annual amortisation charge.
disclosures We also tested the application of the Groups amortisation policy, including comparing the historical accuracy of the current The Risk There is a risk that the carrying value of goodwill is useful lives of existing finite life intangible assets.
An impairment assessment of goodwill is carried out indicator of impairment was identified, we critically assessed the annually, or where there is an indication of impairment, using a Groups assumptions around projected cash flows and the other value in use model in each of the three cash-generating units assumptions as appropriate.
We assessed whether the Groups CGUs.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting disclosures around finite life assets, changes in amortisation and and discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of the impairment were adequate.
assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key areas of judgment of the audit.
Valuation of Other Financial Liabilities 36.8m per note 28 Our Response In this area our audit procedures included, Refer to page 28 Audit and Compliance Committee Report, page 67 among others, testing the Groups controls around the accounting policy and page 116 financial disclosures preparation of the budget, upon which the discounted cashflow The Risk As detailed in the summary of significant accounting model is based, to assess the adequacy of controls around the process and the reasonableness of assumptions.
We used our policies, the F&C REIT put option liabilities represent the fair value of the options to purchase the 30% interest in F&C REIT own valuation specialist to assist us in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used by the Group, in currently held by the non-controlling interest partners in this business.
The value of the liability as at 31 December 2013 was particular those relating to the inputs into the discounted cashflow model.
We compared the Groups assumptions to 36.8m see note 28.
The potential value of this non-controlling interest is held in Other Financial Liabilities in the Consolidated externally derived data such as industry growth rates and riskadjusted discount rates applied in the market.
We also Statement of Financial Position and revalued on a fair value basis annually.
Changes in the value of the non-controlling compared these to our own assessments in relation to key inputs such as projected economic growth, cost inflation and interest are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
There is a risk that the underlying assumptions used to calculate discount rates, and applied various sensitivities, including those 54 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Independent Auditors Report the fair value of the subsidiary are not appropriate and could Our Response Our audit procedures included, among others, materially misstate the value of the liability.
Due to inherent considering the appropriateness of the absence of a provision uncertainties in the subsidiarys future performance, projected recorded against the trade receivable balance, inspecting the cash flows and applicable discount rate, this is a key focus area underlying documentation covering enforceability, legal title, the of the audit.
valuation and the potential timing of realisation of assets held in overseas jurisdictions as collateral.
The signed payment Our Response In this area, our audit procedures included, schedule agreed by management was also inspected.
Finally, among others, an assessment of the key inputs and we considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in assumptions used in the third party valuation and the method of relation to the recoverability of trade receivables and credit risk.
We compared the Groups assumptions to externally derived data such as industry growth rates, risk- 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of adjusted discount rates applied in the market as well as our own the scope of our audit assessments in relation to key inputs.
We used our own The materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was valuation specialist to help challenge the key assumptions and set at 4.9m.
This has been calculated with reference to a method of valuation used by the third party.
We identified and benchmark of Group revenue of which it represents 2% which we evaluated the difference between the fair value of F&C REIT consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of produced by the third-party valuer and the value in use the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
calculation produced for the purpose of assessing whether the We agreed with the Audit and Compliance Committee to report all value of goodwill relating to the F&C REIT CGU was impaired corrected and uncorrected misstatements identified through our considering the consistency of the assumptions made for the audit work with a value in excess of 245,000 that have an impact two different valuation bases.
We assessed the disclosure on profit, in addition to other audit misstatements that we believe around the other financial liability, agreeing any assumptions warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for Group reporting disclosed to the underlying fair value model.
purposes were performed by component auditors.
The key reporting components were: The Netherlands and Portugal and by Performance Fees including transaction fees 11.6m the Group audit team in the United Kingdom.
These Group Refer to page 28 Audit and Compliance Committee Report, page 64 procedures covered 98.6% of total Group revenue and 99.4% of accounting policy and page 75 financial disclosures total Group assets.
The segment disclosures in note 2 set out the The Risk There is a risk that management applies inaccurate individual significance of a specific country.
assumptions when determining revenue to be recognised in The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key relation to performance fees, resulting in a material reporting components of the Group were all performed to materiality misstatement.
levels set by, or agreed with, the Group audit team.
These materiality Our Response Our audit procedures included, among others, levels were set individually for each component and ranged from identifying performance fees that have been accrued and do not 0.4m to 3.6m.
crystallise until a future date, and assessing managements Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these analysis of potential future performance.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that the reasonableness of each of the assumptions and external should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks market benchmarks, as well as the historical accuracy of similar of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information judgments.
For amounts that crystallised during the period we required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group assessed the calculation and compared it to the underlying audit team visited the following locations: the UK, The Netherlands agreement, as well as agreeing amounts to bank statements.
Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors at these locations.
Risk of recoverability relating to trade receivables balance 13.3m 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Refer to page 28 Audit and Compliance Committee Report, page 67 Companies Act 2006 is unmodified accounting policy and page 125 financial disclosures In our opinion: The Risk There is a significant specific risk around recovery of The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited 13.3m currently recognised in the Groups Consolidated has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Statement of Financial Position.
The 13.3m from a client in the Act 2006: property segment, is past its due date and has not been impaired.
Collateral is held in the form of UK and overseas The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors properties to the value of 52.5m.
The realisation of certain of Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements these properties is expected to be the source of repayment of are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the debtor.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 55 The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement Scope of report and responsibilities set out on pages 26 to 32 with respect to internal control and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement risk management systems in relation to financial reporting set out on page 52, the directors are responsible for the preparation processes and share capital structures is consistent with the of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a Group Financial Statements.
A description of the scope of an audit of Financial Statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters at www.
This report is made solely to on which we are required to report by exception the Companys members as a body and is subject to important Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have published on our website at identified other information in the annual report that contains a www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Financial into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an Statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have misleading.
undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and Jonathan Mills Senior Statutory Auditor understandable and provides the information necessary for for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business Chartered Accountants model and strategy: or EH1 2EG the Statement of the Audit and Compliance Committee does Edinburgh not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the 9 April 2014 Audit and Compliance Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 26, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page26 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
56 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The Company Financial Statements of F&C Asset Management plc, given on pages 141 to 153 have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
