FINANCIAL Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC We have audited the financial statements of Fidelity European misstatement or an omission from the financial statements or Values PLC for the year ended 31 December 2013 which related disclosures that would make it probable that the comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements judgement of a reasonable person, relying on the information, in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow would have been changed or influenced by the misstatement or Statement and the related notes.
We also determine a level of performance materiality framework that has been applied in their preparation is which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards reduce to an appropriately low level, the probability that the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies We established materiality for the financial statements as a Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might whole to be 7.13m, which is 1% of the Companys total assets.
state to the Companys members those matters we are required For the Income Statement we determined that misstatements for to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
a lesser amount than materiality for the financial statements as a To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or whole would make it probable that the judgement of a assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the reasonable person, relying on the information, would have been Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this changed or influenced by the misstatement or omission.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Accordingly, we established materiality for the revenue column of the income statement to be 1.78m.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities We have determined the threshold at which we communicate Statement set out on page 35, the Directors are responsible for misstatement to the Audit Committee to be 0.36m.
In addition, the preparation of the financial statements and for being we communicate misstatements below that threshold that, in our satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Our assessment of risk Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Without modifying our opinion, we highlight the following matters with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
that are, in our judgement, likely to be most important to users understanding of our audit.
Our audit procedures relating to SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion isprovided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at on individual transactions, balances or disclosures.
Investments AUDITOR COMMENTARY The Companys business is investing in financial assets with a An overview of the scope of our audit view to profit from the total return in the form of revenue and Our audit approach was based on a thorough understanding of capital gains.
Accordingly, the investment portfolio totalling the Companys business and is risk-based.
The day-to-day 689m which includes long Contracts For Difference CFDs, is a management of the Companys investment portfolio, the custody significant and material item in the Balance Sheet.
The of its investments and the maintenance of the Companys recognition and measurement of the investment portfolio is accounting records is outsourced to third-party service providers.
therefore a risk that requires particular audit attention.
Accordingly, our audit work is focused on obtaining an understanding of, and evaluating, internal controls at the Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, understanding Company and relevant third-party service providers.
This managements process to recognise and measure the investment included a review of reports on the description, design and portfolio including ownership of those securities.
We obtained operating effectiveness of internal controls at the relevant confirmation of investments and CFDs held at the year end third-party service providers.
We undertook substantive testing directly from the independent custodian, tested the reconciliation on significant transactions, balances and disclosures, the extent of the custodian records to the records maintained by the of which was based on various factors such as our overall Companys administrator, and tested a selection of investment assessment of the control environment, the effectiveness of and CFD additions and disposals shown in the Companys controls over individual systems and the management of records to supporting documentation.
We agreed the valuation specificrisks.
of quoted investments to an independent source of market prices and we tested the determination of the valuation of CFDs by Our application of materiality agreement of the contract price to the report from the We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing independent custodian and the settlement price to an our audit, in evaluating the effect of any identified misstatements independent source of market prices.
and in forming our opinion.
For the purpose of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement we define materiality as the magnitude of a Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 37 FINANCIAL Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC The Companys accounting policies on the valuation of Matters on which we are required to report by exception investments and derivative instruments are included in Note 1 We have nothing to report in respect of the following: and the disclosures about investments and derivatives held at year end are included in Notes 9 and 10 respectively.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Recognition of income from Investments Investment income is the Companys major source of revenue.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited According to the Statement of Recommended Practice, Financial financial statements: or Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Trusts, revenue should be recognised when the Companys right inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in to the income is established, in line with the Companys stated the course of performing our audit: or accounting policy.
We therefore identified the recognition of otherwise misleading.
revenue from the investment portfolio as a significant risk requiring particular audit attention.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, assessing during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider whether the Companys accounting policy conforms with United the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, testing the whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters income recognised in accordance with that policy, and selecting that were communicated to the audit committee which we a sample of investments and CFDs held in the period to consider should have been disclosed.
determine whether the income that should have been recognised had been received and recorded.
We also assessed whether Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you any of the dividends should have been treated as capital if, in our opinion: receipts.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns The Companys accounting policy on the recognition of income adequate for our audit have not been received from branches from investments is included in Note 1 and the components of not visited by us: or that revenue are included in Note 2. the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the accounting records and returns: or In our opinion the financial statements: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs we have not received all the information and explanations we as at 31 December 2013 and of its net return for the year then require for our audit.
ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Directors statement, set out on page 23, in relation to the Companies Act 2006. going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to OTHER REPORTING RESPONSIBILITIES the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
2006 In our opinion: Julian Bartlett Senior Statutory Auditor the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP has been properly prepared in accordance with the Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants Companies Act 2006: London the information given in the Strategic Report and the 10 March 2014 Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 38
