Independent Auditors Report Report on the financial statements with the audited financial statements and to Our opinion identify any information that is apparently materially In our opinion the financial statements, defined below: incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys the knowledge acquired by us in the course of affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its net return performing the audit.
If we become aware of any and cash flows for the year then ended: apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies have been properly prepared in accordance with we consider the implications for our report.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Overview of our audit approach have been prepared in accordance with the | Materiality requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These This opinion is to be read in the context of what we helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent say in the remainder of this report.
of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial What we have audited statements as a whole.
The financial statements, which are prepared Based on our professional judgement, we by Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC the determined an overall materiality for the financial Company, comprise: statements as a whole of 24.3 million, which is the balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: approximately 1% of Net Assets.
the income statement for the year then ended: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we the reconciliation of movements in shareholders would report to them misstatements identified during funds and the cash flow statement for the year our audit above 1.2 million as well as misstatements then ended: and below that amount that, in our view, warranted the notes to the financial statements, which include reporting for qualitative reasons.
a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
| Overview of the scope of our audit The financial reporting framework that has been The Company is a standalone Investment Trust applied in their preparation comprises applicable law Company managed by an independent investment and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United manager, F&C Management Limited the Investment Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The financial statements, which remain the What an audit of financial statements involves responsibility of the Directors, are prepared on their We conducted our audit in accordance with International behalf by the Investment Manager.
The Investment Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Manager has, with the consent of the Directors, Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about delegated the provision of certain administrative the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements functions to State Street Bank and Trust Company sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial the Company Administrator.
statements are free from material misstatement, whether In establishing the overall approach to our audit we caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: assessed the risk of material misstatement, taking whether the accounting policies are appropriate into account the nature, likelihood and potential to the Companys circumstances and have been magnitude of any misstatement.
As part of our consistently applied and adequately disclosed: risk assessment, we considered the Companys the reasonableness of significant accounting interaction with the Investment Manager and estimates made by the Directors: and Company Administrator, and we assessed the the overall presentation of the financial statements.
control environment in place at both organisations to In addition, we read all the financial and nonthe extent relevant to our audit of the Company.
financial information in the Report and Accounts the Following this assessment, we applied professional Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements.
Report and Accounts 2013 37 Independent Auditors Report continued | Areas of particular audit focus extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable In preparing the financial statements, the Directors basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit made a number of subjective judgements, for evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, example in respect of significant accounting substantive procedures or a combination of both.
estimates that involved making assumptions We considered the following areas to be those and considering future events that are inherently that required particular focus in the current year.
We primarily focused our work in these is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus areas by assessing the Directors judgements against identified by our audit.
available evidence, forming our own judgements, and We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Their report on those matters that they In our audit, we tested and examined information, considered to be significant issues in relation to the using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the financial statements is set out on page 34.
How the scope of our audit addressed Area of focus the area of focus Valuation and existence of investments We focused on this area because investThe investment portfolio comprises listed equity investments ments represent the principal element of the and investments in private equity through funds or partnerships.
financial statements and some private equity We tested the existence of the investment portfolio by valuations are subjective.
agreeing the holdings to an independent confirmation.
We tested the valuation of the listed investment portfolio by agreeing the valuation of 100% of the listed investments to independent third party sources.
For the private equity portfolio, we obtained confirmation of the valuation from the private equity managers.
We also discussed the valuations with them and the Investment Manager in order to challenge the appropriateness of the methodology and the valuations used.
Income recognition We focused on this area because incomplete We tested a sample of dividend receipts to independent or inaccurate income could have a material third party sources.
Our sample covered at least 50% of impact on the Companys net asset value dividend income from listed investments and 100% of and dividend cover.
dividend income from unlisted investments.
We have also performed tests on whether income the Company is entitled to has been recorded.
Risk of management override of internal controls ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider We tested journal entries to determine whether adjustments management override of controls.
were supported by evidence and were appropriately authorised.
We focused on this area because whilst the posting of journals is performed by the We also built an element of unpredictability into our Company Administrator, the instruction is detailed testing.
given by the Investment Manager who, along with the Directors, may exert bias or influence.
38 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Going Concern | Directors remuneration Under the Listing Rules we are required to review Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to the Directors statement, set out on page 17, in report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report of Directors remuneration specified by law have not having performed our review.
We have no exceptions to report arising As noted in the Directors statement the Directors from this responsibility.
have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis | Corporate Governance Statement of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the that the Company has adequate resources to remain part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of so, for at least one year from the date the financial the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
As part of our audit we have nothing to report having performed our review.
have concluded that the Directors use of the going On page 17 of the Annual Report, as required concern basis is appropriate.
by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that However, because not all future events or they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to conditions can be predicted, these statements be fair, balanced and understandable and provides are not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to the information necessary for members to assess the continue as a going concern.
Companys performance, business model and strategy.
On page 34, as required by C3.8 of the Code, the Opinions on matters prescribed by the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that Companies Act 2006 it considered in relation to the financial statements, and In our opinion: how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland the information given in the Strategic Report and we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the Directors Report for the financial year for which the statement given by the Directors is materially the financial statements are prepared is consistent inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company with the financial statements: and acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the section of the Annual Report describing to be audited has been properly prepared in the work of the Audit Committee does not accordance with the Companies Act 2006. appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other matters on which we are required to We have no exceptions to report arising from this report by exception responsibility.
| Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received | Other information in the Annual Report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report report to you if, in our opinion: to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual we have not received all the information and Report is: explanations we require for our audit: or materially inconsistent with the information in the adequate accounting records have not been kept, audited financial statements: or or returns adequate for our audit have not been apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially received from branches not visited by us: or inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company the financial statements and the part of the Directors acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Remuneration Report to be audited are not in is otherwise misleading.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Report and Accounts 2013 39 Independent Auditors Report continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and This report, including the opinions, has been the audit prepared for and only for the Companys members | Our responsibilities and those of the Directors as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other Responsibilities set out on page 36, the Directors purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept are responsible for the preparation of the financial or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to statements and for being satisfied that they give a any other person to whom this report is shown or true and fair view.
into whose hands it may come save where expressly Our responsibility is to audit and express an agreed by our prior consent in writing.
opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Alex Bertolotti Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 3 March 2014 40 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
