56 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Hargreaves Lansdown plc We have audited the financial statements statements sufficient to give reasonable prepared in accordance with the of Hargreaves Lansdown plc for the year assurance that the financial statements are Companies Act 2006: and ended 30 June 2013 which comprise of free from material misstatement, whether the information given in the Directors the Consolidated Income Statement, the caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Report for the financial year for which Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive assessment of: whether the accounting the financial statements are prepared is Income, the Consolidated and Company policies are appropriate to the Groups consistent with the financial statements.
Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and and the parent companys circumstances Company Cash Flow Statements, the and have been consistently applied and Matters on which we are required to report Consolidated and Company Statements of adequately disclosed: the reasonableness by exception Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 of significant accounting estimates We have nothing to report in respect of the to 27.
The financial reporting framework made by the directors: and the overall following: that has been applied in their preparation presentation of the financial statements.
is applicable law and International Financial In addition, we read all the financial and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted non-financial information in the annual required to report to you if, in our opinion: by the European Union and, as regards the report to identify material inconsistencies adequate accounting records have not parent company financial statements, as with the audited financial statements and to been kept by the parent company, or applied in accordance with the provisions of identify any information that is apparently returns adequate for our audit have not the Companies Act 2006. materially incorrect based on, or materially been received from branches not visited inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us: or This report is made solely to the companys by us in the course of performing the audit.
the parent company financial members, as a body, in accordance with If we become aware of any apparent material statements and the part of the Directors Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act misstatements or inconsistencies we Remuneration Report to be audited are not 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken consider the implications for our report.
in agreement with the accounting records so that we might state to the companys and returns: or members those matters we are required Opinion on financial statements certain disclosures of directors to state to them in an auditors report and In our opinion: remuneration specified by law are not for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the financial statements give a true and made: or permitted by law, we do not accept or assume fair view of the state of the Groups and of we have not received all the information responsibility to anyone other than the the parent companys affairs as at 30 June and explanations we require for our audit.
company and the companys members as a 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year body, for our audit work, for this report, or for then ended: Under the Listing Rules we are required to the opinions we have formed.
the consolidated financial statements have review: been properly prepared in accordance with the directors statement, contained within Respective responsibilities of directors and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Directors Report, in relation to going auditor the parent company financial statements concern: As explained more fully in the Directors have been properly prepared in the part of the Corporate Governance Responsibilities Statement, the directors accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Statement relating to the companys are responsible for the preparation of the European Union and as applied in compliance with the nine provisions of the the financial statements and for being accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Companies Act 2006: and for our review: and Our responsibility is to audit and express the financial statements have been certain elements of the report to an opinion on the financial statements prepared in accordance with the shareholders by the Board on directors in accordance with applicable law and requirements of the Companies Act 2006 remuneration.
International Standards on Auditing UK and, as regards the consolidated financial and Ireland.
Those standards require us to statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Simon Cleveland Senior statutory auditor Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Companies Act 2006 Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Scope of the audit of the financial statements In our opinion: Bristol, UK An audit involves obtaining evidence about the part of the Directors Remuneration the amounts and disclosures in the financial Report to be audited has been properly 10 September 2013 www.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 57 2013 Financial Statements www.
