INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST PLC We have audited the financial statements of Herald Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds and the related notes 1 to 20.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 36, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report & Financial Statements to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its net return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team: The valuation of investments, The valuation of the Companys interest rate swap, and The calculation of the management fees.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements and in forming our audit opinion.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 6.2 million, which is 1 per cent of total equity.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Company should be 75 per cent of materiality, namely 4.7 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total detected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning materiality level.
HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 37 106988 Herald AR 1213-v10.
indd 37 05 03 2014 09:01 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued We have agreed to report to the Audit Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.3 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our response to the risks identified above was as follows: We agreed the year end prices for Level 1 and 2 investments to an independent source: With the assistance of our valuation experts, we considered the appropriateness of the valuation techniques applied to Level 3 investments by reviewing the valuation methodology: and We independently recalculated management fee calculations for the year with reference to contractual arrangements and agreed the calculation inputs to source data.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 31, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Amarjit Singh Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor London 25 February 2014 38 106988 Herald AR 1213-v10.
