British American Tobacco 113 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Independent auditors report To the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows fortheyearthen ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EuropeanUnion:and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements, which are prepared by British American Tobacco p. l. c. BAT, comprise: the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2013: the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: and the Notes on the accounts, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information, the Principalsubsidiary undertakings and Principal associate undertakings.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements orinconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 290 million, which represents approximately 5% of profit before taxation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 15 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group is primarily structured across four geographic regions, being Asia-Pacific, Americas, Western Europe, and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 438 reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and sales offices often legal entities, centralised functions, and supply chain entities.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms and other firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for ouropinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
British American Tobacco 114 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Independent auditors report continued Accordingly, of the Groups 438 reporting units, we identified 52 which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics, providing 83% coverage over Group profit before taxation, spread across all geographic regions.
Audits of these reporting units were performed using materiality levels lower than the materiality level for the Group as a whole, ranging from 10 million to 60 million, and established by reference to the size of, and risks associated with, the business concerned.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 65 reporting units, one of which represents the results of an associate.
The nature of the balances and transactions where specific audit procedures were performed differ to those at the Groups core operating businesses.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level relating primarily to taxation, litigation, pensions, and earnings per share, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of particular audit focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 54.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Corporate Tax Exposures The Directors are required to apply significant judgement when We held a programme of meetings with the Groups Corporate Tax determining whether, and how much, to provide in respect of team and local management to understand the tax strategy and material tax assessments leading to uncertain tax positions in a related tax risks, any associated technical tax issues, and the status number of jurisdictions.
Refer to notes 6 and 30 in the notes on of any current tax litigation.
We assessed the appropriateness of provisions recorded in the We focused on this area due to the significant quantum of gross risk financial statements, or the rationale for not recording a provision, and exposure across the Group, and the inherent complexity and having read the latest correspondence between the Group and the judgement in estimating the amount of provision required.
various tax authorities, and having obtained written responses from the Groups external legal advisors containing their views on material tax exposures and any related litigation.
Litigation The Group is subject to claims and class actions which could have We understood, assessed and tested managements controls in asignificant impact on the results if the potential exposures were respect of litigation at the Group, regional and local level.
The Directors apply significant judgement when discussed the nature and status of exposures with in-house and determining whether, and how much, to provide for matters of external legal counsel.
We obtained letters from the Groups lawyers litigation.
Refer to notes 22 and 30 in the notes on the accounts.
to corroborate managements position for all significant litigation matters.
We also read publicly available information containing We focused on this area due to the number and magnitude recent updates in respect of court hearings and judgments ofpotential exposures across the Group, and the inherent impacting the Group.
We assessed the appropriateness of provisions complexity and judgement in whether to provide for or disclose recorded in the financial statements, or the rationale for not certain exposures.
recording a provision, and the completeness of disclosures in respect of contingent liabilities.
Restructuring and Integration costs During the year the Group has continued with the implementation We challenged the appropriateness of the Directors policies of its revised Operating Model and single IT operating system in inrespect of project costs, including the nature of costs to be anumber of markets.
The accounting judgements and disclosure capitalised versus those that are immediately expensed, and ofcosts associated with the project are complex, and give rise thetiming of determining when capitalised assets should be toanincreased risk of error relating to inappropriate costs depreciated.
We understood and evaluated managements controls beingcapitalised.
over project costs, and any controls implemented as a result of the change programme.
We tested costs incurred during the period to assess the appropriateness of 116 million costs capitalised versus 160 million that were expensed.
British American Tobacco 115 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Fraud in Revenue recognition ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue We understood and evaluated managements controls over revenue recognition when management are under pressure to achieve transactions, and over the monitoring of results at an end market, planned results.
Whilst revenue recognition and measurement is regional and Group level that are designed to detect unusual not complex for BAT, volume targets form part of the Groups key transactions.
We challenged the appropriateness of the Directors performance measures which could create an incentive to record revenue recognition policies and tested the timing of revenue revenue in the incorrect period.
recognition, taking into account contractual obligations and any local market conditions that might lead to an increase or reduction We focused on this area given the magnitude of revenue in revenue outside of the normal pattern.
We also tested journal transactions that occur, and the opportunity that exists across entries posted to revenue accounts to identify unusual or irregular markets to influence the timing of revenue recognition.
Refer items, and we tested credit notes and returns after the balance sheet tonote 1 in the notes on the accounts.. date for indicators that revenue may have been inappropriately recognised before the year end.
Risk of management override of internal controls ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups Internal Audit function.
We considered whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors in the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements.
We performed unpredictable audit procedures at in scope audit units and tested journal entries.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 43, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinion on matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 112 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 54, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
British American Tobacco 116 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Independent auditors report continued Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 112, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended December 31, 2013, and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 26 February 2014
