Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of International Personal Finance plc Opinion on the Financial Statements of An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding International Personal Finance plc of the Group and its environment, including Groupwide In our opinion: controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state at the Group level.
of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year on the audit work at six operating locations, which were subject then ended: to a full audit.
Together with the Group functions, which were the Group Financial Statements have been properly also subject to a full audit, these six locations represent the prepared in accordance with International Financial principal business units within the Groups reportable segments Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the and account for 99.7% of the Groups net assets, 99.9% of the European Union: Groups revenue and 100.0% of the Groups profit before tax.
the Parent Company Financial Statements have been They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material by the European Union and as applied in accordance misstatement identified below.
Our audit work at the six with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the The Financial Statements comprise the consolidated income remaining components not subject to audit.
statement, statements of comprehensive income, balance sheets, statements of changes in equity, cash flow statements, The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 30.
The financial planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation Statutory Auditor visits each of the six locations where the Group is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union audit scope was focused at least once every three years.
and, as regards the Parent Company Financial Statements, as In years when the Senior Statutory Auditor does not visit a applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies significant component we will include the component audit Act 2006. partner and team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review the relevant documentation of the Going concern findings from their work.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors Based on the above, the assessed risks of material statement on page 36 that the Group is a going concern.
misstatement described overleaf are those that had the We confirm that: greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources we have concluded that the directors use of the going in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the Financial Statements is appropriate: and we have not identified material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
79 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of receivables Determining impairment provisions for bad and doubtful debts We evaluated the appropriateness of managements key against customer receivables is judgemental requiring an assumptions used in the impairment calculations for customer estimate to be made of the likely loss within the lending portfolios.
receivables, including the estimation of future customer default This requires the estimation of future customer default rates and rates and expected future cash flows for each portfolio, and expected future cash flows for each portfolio.
tested the underlying controls in the provisioning process.
We also tested the accuracy and completeness of the provision calculation by testing an extraction of source data from the core lending systems, recalculating the provision in accordance with the approved provisioning policy, and testing the timely identification of impaired accounts.
Revenue recognition The recognition of revenue on loans using an effective interest We assessed the appropriateness of managements key rate method requires significant judgement by management to assumptions used in the recognition of revenue using the determine key assumptions regarding the expected life of each effective interest rate method as described in the accounting loan and the related cash flows.
policies by comparison against historical customer behaviour and by performing analytical procedures to assess the sensitivity of changing the chosen rate.
Hedge accounting The hedge accounting requirements require significant skilled We tested managements application of hedge accounting input and oversight by management, as well as robust systems which comprised testing hedge documentation, and and controls particularly due to the number of hedge independently re-performed a sample of hedge effectiveness arrangements in the Group.
tests conducted by management during the year.
Deferred tax accounting The recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets, which We tested the recognition and measurement of the deferred are reliant upon the underlying profit forecasts of the Group.
tax asset, and assessed the underlying profit forecasts of the Group in order to determine whether full recognition of the deferred tax asset was appropriate.
Provision for uncertain tax positions and regulatory matters The completeness of provisions against taxation or regulatory We considered the completeness of any taxation or regulatory exposures in the various jurisdictions in which the Group operates, provisions required by reference to internal and external and an assessment as to whether any provisions are required for information, and challenged the appropriateness of customer remediation.
The Audit and Risk Committees consideration of these risks is We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would set out on page 53. report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 100,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the disclosures.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is not Financial Statements.
modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Our application of materiality In our opinion: We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be has been properly prepared in accordance with the changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the Companies Act 2006: and scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our the information given in the Strategic Report and the work.
Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial We determined materiality for the group to be 5 million, Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial which is below 5% of normalised pre-tax profit, and below 1.5% Statements.
Pre-tax profit has been normalised by excluding the 15.9 million profit on sale of impaired receivables.
80 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Financial Statements Matters on which we are required to report by Respective responsibilities of directors and exception auditor Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of if, in our opinion: the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an we have not received all the information and explanations opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with we require for our audit: or applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK adequate accounting records have not been kept by the and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We been received from branches not visited by us: or also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Our quality controls and systems We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews, and independent Directors remuneration partner reviews.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from that we might state to the Companys members those matters these matters.
we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Corporate Governance Statement not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of Company and the Companys members as a body, for our the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements arising from our review.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give Under the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
the Annual Report is: This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys materially inconsistent with the information in the audited circumstances and have been consistently applied and Financial Statements: or adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read course of performing our audit: or all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited otherwise misleading.
Financial Statements and to identify any information that is In particular, we are required to consider whether we have apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of acquired during the audit and the directors statement that performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately implications for our report.
discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been Stephen Williams FCA Senior Statutory Auditor disclosed.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP We confirm that we have not identified any such Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Leeds, United Kingdom 26 February 2014 81 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
