Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Consolidated financial statements Independent Auditors report However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to mEmBERS OF BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING continue as a going concern.
GROUP PLC Opinion Auditor commentary In our opinion the consolidated and Parent Company financial Our assessment of risks significant to our audit statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc: The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy, the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Parent allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2013 and of its profit for the year engagement team: then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International revenue recognition, including the timing and amount of retail Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European subscription revenues recognised in the year: Union: and the selection and application of appropriate policies for the have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the expensing of general entertainment programming inventory: and Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the appropriateness of the recognition of intangible and tangible non-current assets from capital expenditure projects.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated and company income statements, the consolidated and company statements of Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the comprehensive income, the consolidated and company balance context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to sheets, the consolidated and company cash flow statements, the express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion consolidated and company statements of changes in equity and the on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been key audit matters described below, and we do not express an opinion applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by on these individual matters.
Our assessment of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB our audit and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the and on the financial statements.
For the purposes of determining Group in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European whether the financial statements are free from material Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International misstatement we define materiality as the magnitude of Accounting Standards Board IASB.
misstatement that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with statements, would be changed or influenced.
We also determine a IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
level of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the Basis for opinions probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected We have audited the consolidated and Parent Company financial misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a statements in accordance with applicable law and International whole.
Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
Our responsibilities When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a under those standards are further described below under Respective magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor.
In performing our audit as material for the financial statements as a whole.
In line with generally required by those standards, we complied with the Financial Reporting accepted practice, we calculated planning materiality for the Group as Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors including those requiring us to approximately 4% of adjusted pre-tax profit and 5% of equity, which be independent and objective.
We use adjusted pre-tax profit to exclude the effect of volatility from our determination.
Going Concern We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors Committee all audit differences in excess of 2.5 million, as well as statement on page 59 that the business is a going concern.
We differences below that threshold that in our view, warranted reporting confirm that: on qualitative grounds.
we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or The scope of our audit conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Companys ability An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and to continue as a going concern which we believe would need to be disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable disclosed in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European assurance that the financial statements are free from material Union: and misstatement whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an we have concluded that managements use of the going concern assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and appropriate.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 61 Annual Report 2013: Consolidated financial statements Independent Auditors report continued financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and Corporate Governance Statement non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in implications for our report.
our opinion, information in the annual report is: Our Group audit scope focused on the Groups UK and Ireland materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial operations, which were subject to a full scope audit for the year ended statements: or 30 June 2013 and represent all principal operations of the Group and apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent account for substantially all of the Groups total assets, revenue and with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of operating profit.
performing our audit: or The way in which we scoped our response to the significant risks otherwise misleading.
identified above was as follows: In particular, we have considered whether the annual report Retail subscription revenue our procedures included appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the understanding and testing the controls in respect of the Groups Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
billing and customer relationship management systems and testing We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or the revenue recognised in the period.
General Entertainment programming inventory we evaluated the amortisation method for general entertainment programming Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor inventory, taking into account the differing genres of programmes, viewing profiles and industry benchmarks.
Responsibility of directors for the financial statements Capitalisation of intangible and tangible non-current assets we As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibility tested the controls in respect of the capitalisation of assets, set out on page 60 the directors are responsible for the adequacy of considered all material and a sample of other capital expenditure the accounting records, the preparation of the financial statements projects and evaluated managements assessment as to whether from those records and for being satisfied that the financial the project spend met the recognition criteria set out in IAS 16 and statements give a true and fair view.
IAS 38 and considered whether any indicators of impairment were Auditors responsibility present.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial The Audit Committees consideration of these judgements is set out statements, and to provide other reports and communications arising on page 43. from our audit in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in In our opinion: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year companys members those matters we are either required to state to for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with them in an auditors report and or those further matters we have the financial statements: and expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company 2006. and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception William Touche Senior Statutory Auditor Adequacy of explanations received For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations London, United Kingdom we require for our audit.
We have nothing to report in respect of this matter.
25 July 2013 Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
62 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
