Independent Auditors Report to the Members of the International Public Partnerships Limited Independent Auditors Report to the Members of International Public Partnerships Limited We have audited the financial statements of International Public Partnerships Limited the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and related notes 1 to 23.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 56, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our Assessment of Risks of Material Misstatement We identified the following risk that has had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy and scope: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team: the assessment of the fair value of Investments at Fair Value through Profit and Loss Our Application of Materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 9 million, which is approximately 1% of equity.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that overall performance materiality for the Group should be 50% of materiality, namely 4.5 million.
A lower materiality of 1.2 million has been applied to Interest income, Dividend income and Management costs to be responsive to the expectations of the users of the financial statements with regard to misstatements in these balances of a lesser amount than the Group materiality.
Performance materiality for these balances has been determined to be 50% of materiality, namely 0.65 million.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 57 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of the International Public Partnerships Limited continued We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.45 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An Overview of the Scope of our Audit In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the consolidated financial statements, our Group audit scope focused on the fair value of investments through profit and loss and the consolidated investment entity and service entities in the Group, as defined by IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our response to the risk of material misstatement identified above included the following procedures: we evaluated the Boards assessment of the investment group to be accounted for at fair value in accordance with IFRS: we understood the investment valuation process and key management controls around the financial models: and we challenged the Boards assumptions underpinning the fair value of investments, including the key inputs of the forecast cash flows, the discount rates used, and the historical accuracy of forecasts.
We used a valuation specialist to assist us with our consideration of the discount rates, foreign exchange rates and inflation rates used.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: proper accounting records have not been kept: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Michael Bane for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Recognised Auditors Guernsey Channel Islands 26 March 2014 INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 58
