financial statements overview business review governance shareholder information independent auditors report to the members of Britvic plc We have audited the group financial statements of Britvic plc for Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks of material misstatement which the 52 week period ended 29 September 2013 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the consolidated statement engagement team: of changes in equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting the assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law lived assets: and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the accounting for the Groups derivatives and hedging activities: by the European Union.
revenue recognition in particular the treatment of long term This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, discounts, promotional discounts and account development in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act funds and the timing of revenue recognition: 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state the accounting for the defined benefit pension scheme: and to the companys members those matters we are required to state the risk of management override of internal control to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Our application of materiality responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys Materiality is a key part of planning and executing our audit strategy.
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements opinions we have formed.
are free from material misstatement, we define materiality as the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, in light of the surrounding circumstances, could As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 59, the directors are responsible for the preparation reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
As we develop our audit strategy, of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express we determine materially at the overall financial statement level and at the individual account level.
Performance materiality is the an opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and application of materiality at the individual account level.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Planning the audit solely to detect individually material Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
misstatements overlooks the fact that the aggregate of individually immaterial misstatements may cause the financial statements to Scope of the audit of the financial statements be materially misstated, and leaves no margin for possible An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and undetected misstatements.
Performance materiality is set to disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the assurance that the financial statements are free from material aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and materiality for the group to be 5.2 million 2012: 5.1 million, non-financial statements information in the Annual Report to identify which is approximately 5% 2012: 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit.
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and We used adjusted pre-tax profits to exclude those items classified to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect as exceptional items within the financial statements.
This provided based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired the basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of our audit by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of procedures, and identifying and assessing the risk of material any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we misstatement.
consider the implications for our report.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our Opinion on financial statements assessment of the groups overall control environment, our In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for 29 September 2013 and of its profit for the 52 week period then the group should be 75% 2012: 75% of planning materiality, ended: namely 3.9 million 2012: 3.8 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that the total detected and have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and undetected audit differences did not exceed our planning materiality of 5.2 million for the financial statements as a whole.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.26 million 2012: 0.25 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 63 independent auditors report to the members of Britvic plc continued An overview of the scope of our audit The accounting for the defined benefit pension In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the consolidated we reviewed and challenged the assumptions used in the financial statements, our Group audit scope focused on three pension liability valuations and we used a pensions specialist to operating locations, of which one was subject to a full scope audit assist us with this procedure: for the 52 week period ended 29 september 2013.
The remaining we understood and challenged managements input into the two operating locations were subject to a specific scope audit, assumptions underpinning the liability: where the extent of the audit work was based on our assessment we tested a sample of the pension asset valuations to ensure of the risk of material misstatement and the materiality of the they had been reasonably calculated: and Groups business operations at those locations.
The audit of these we ensured that the financial statement disclosures were in three locations was performed at a materiality level calculated by accordance with accounting standards.
reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relevant scale of the individual business unit.
Together with the The risk management override of internal control Group Functions, which were also subject to a full scope audit we performed tailored procedures, sufficient to address the these locations represent the principal business units of the Group identified risk in respect of subjective areas which were and account for 100% of the Groups total assets, 100% of the considered to be most susceptible to management override.
Groups revenue and 100% of the Groups operating profit.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 The Senior Statutory Auditor also leads the audit at the full scope In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the location and has visited one of the specific scope locations during Directors Report for the financial year for which the group financial the year.
For all locations in scope in addition to the locations statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial visited the group audit team remained in continuous contact with statements.
component teams and reviewed the work on key audit areas.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Our response to the risks of material misstatement identified We have nothing to report in respect of the following: above included the following procedures: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and in our opinion, information in the annual report is: indefinite lived assets materially inconsistent with the information in the audited we challenged managements assessment of impairment, financial statements: or including the key inputs of the forecast cash flows, the discount apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially rate used, the growth rate assumed and the historical accuracy inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the of budgets and we used a valuation specialist to assist us with course of performing our audit: or our consideration of the discount rate used: is otherwise misleading.
we evaluated managements sensitivity analysis: and we ensured that the financial statement disclosures met the In particular, we are required to consider whether we have requirements of accounting standards.
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the The accounting for the Groups derivatives and hedging annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the activities annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we we obtained direct external confirmations of the valuation for communicated to the audit committee which we consider should each of the derivative instruments held and tested a sample of have been disclosed.
valuations to ensure they had been reasonably calculated: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, we evaluated managements documentation and assessment of in our opinion: hedge effectiveness: and certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law we ensured that the financial statement disclosures were in are not made: or accordance with accounting standards.
we have not received all the information and explanations we Revenue recognition including the treatment of long term require for our audit.
discounts, promotional discounts and account development Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: funds and the timing of revenue recognition we tested a sample of long term discounts, promotional the directors statement, set out on page 59, in relation to going discounts and account development funds to ensure the revenue concern: and recognition policies adopted complied with IFRS: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the we carried out testing relating to controls over revenue companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition: Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and we performed analytical procedures, cut-off testing on customer certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on delivery notes around the period end and journal testing around directors remuneration.
revenue: and Other matter we ensured that the financial statement disclosures were in We have reported separately on the parent company financial accordance with accounting standards.
statements of Britvic plc for the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Simon ONeill Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 25 November 2013 64 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
