financial statements overview business review governance shareholder information independent auditors report to the members of Britvic plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters Britvic plc for the 52 week period ended 29 September 2013 which comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Practice.
received from branches not visited by us: or This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, the parent company financial statements and the part of the in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state agreement with the accounting records and returns: or to the companys members those matters we are required to state certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the are not made: or fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume we have not received all the information and explanations we responsibility to anyone other than the company and the require for our audit.
companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Britvic plc for the 52 week period ended 29 September 2013.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 59, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied Simon ONeill Senior statutory auditor that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in Birmingham accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply 25 November 2013 with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 29 September 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
