Annual financial statements Independent auditors report to members of Investec Limited We have audited the accompanying group at 31 March 2013, and its combined Auditors responsibility annual financial statements of Investec consolidated and separate financial Limited, which comprise the directors performance and combined consolidated Our responsibility is to express an opinion report, the combined consolidated and separate cash ows for the year then on these financial statements based on balance sheet as at 31 March 2013, the ended in accordance with International our audit.
We conducted our audit in combined consolidated income statement, accordance with International Standards on Financial Reporting Standards and the the combined consolidated statement of Auditing.
Those standards require that we requirements of the Companies Act of comprehensive income, the combined comply with ethical requirements and plan South Africa.
consolidated statement of changes in and perform the audit to obtain reasonable equity and combined consolidated cash assurance whether the financial statements ow statement for the year then ended, a are free from material misstatement.
Other reports required summary of significant accounting policies An audit involves performing procedures to by the Companies Act and other explanatory notes as set out obtain audit evidence about the amounts and on pages 14 to 107 within volume three, As part of our audit of the consolidated disclosures in the financial statements.
The the separate annual financial statements and separate financial statements for the procedures selected depend on the auditors of Investec Limited, which comprise the year ended 31 March 2013, we have read judgement, including the assessment of separate balance sheet as at 31 March the Audit Committees Report and the the risks of material misstatement of the 2013, the separate income statement and Company Secretarys Certicate for the financial statements, whether due to fraud or statement of comprehensive income, the purpose of identifying whether there are error.
In making those risk assessments, the separate statement of changes in equity material inconsistencies between these auditor considers internal control relevant to and the separate cash ow statement reports and the audited consolidated the entitys preparation and presentation of for the year then ended, a summary of and separate financial statements.
These the financial statements in order to design significant accounting policies and other audit procedures that are appropriate in the reports are the responsibility of the explanatory notes, as set out on pages circumstances, but not for the purpose of respective preparers.
Based on reading 111 to 115 within volume three and the expressing an opinion on the effectiveness these reports we have not identied information in the risk management section of the entitys internal control.
An audit also material inconsistencies between these within volume two and remuneration report includes evaluating the appropriateness reports and the audited consolidated and within volume one that is marked audited.
of accounting policies used and the separate financial statements.
However, reasonableness of accounting estimates we have not audited these reports and made by the directors, as well as evaluating accordingly do not express an opinion on Directors responsibility the overall presentation of the financial these reports.
statements We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to The companys directors are responsible for Ernst & Young Inc. provide a basis for our audit opinion.
the preparation and presentation of these Registered Auditors financial statements in accordance with Director Farouk Mohideen International Financial Reporting Standards Chartered Accountant SA Opinion and the requirements of the Companies Registered Auditor Act of South Africa, and for such internal In our opinion, the combined consolidated Wanderers Ofce Park control as the directors determine is and separate annual financial statements 52 Corlett Drive, Illovo necessary to enable the preparation of present fairly, in all material respects, the financial statements that are free from combined consolidated and separate Sandton material misstatement, whether due to financial position of Investec Limited 11 June 2013 fraud or error.
