Independent auditors report We have audited the financial statements of IP Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Company balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and an overview of the scope of our audit We identified the following risks that we believe have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy and scope: Valuation of unlisted equity investments The Group has 148m of investments where no quoted market price is available.
These have been valued by management in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines using a number of valuation techniques such as price of recent investment and earnings multiples.
There is a risk that the carrying value of the portfolio does not fairly reflect its fair value as at balance sheet date.
We have documented and assessed the design and implementation of the investment valuation processes and controls in place.
Where a recent transaction was used to value an investment we obtained an understanding of the circumstances around the transaction and whether they were considered to be at an arms length.
We also agreed the price of recent investment to share purchase documentation.
We have challenged management and the investment managers on key judgements and assumptions affecting investment carrying values and adjustments made to the last price of recent investment in the context of the requirements of the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
In particular we focussed on the appropriateness of the valuation basis selected as well as the underlying assumptions such as milestone analysis and or industry and sector analysis.
We compared key underlying financial inputs to external sources and management information as applicable.
We considered events subsequent to the year end and up to the date of this report.
Accounting treatment and valuation of the Oxford equity rights contract - Included in the balance sheet of the Group is the right to future shares in spin-out companies and licensing income from the University of Oxford chemistry department Equity Rights.
During the year, a change in the fair value of the Equity Rights amounting to 5m was recognised.
Management exercises significant judgement in determining the underlying assumptions used in the valuation model: the assumptions include the discount rate, number of spin-out companies and others.
We therefore believe that there is a risk in the calculation of the value of the Equity Rights.
We have checked the arithmetic accuracy of the discounted cash flow model and audited the inputs and assumptions into the model which are supported by a combination of historical data and managements assessment of future events.
We have obtained evidence to support and corroborate assumptions based on historical information and external industry data.
For assumptions based on future events we have compared prior year assumptions against actual outcomes to understand the reasons for significant variances and considered whether they are indicative of bias or error in managements approach to making assumptions.
We have challenged management on key judgements and assumptions and corroborated these where possible.
We involved our valuations specialists to assess the appropriateness of the model and underlying assumptions.
We have also reviewed managements sensitivity analysis and in particular to changes in the discount rate and number of spin out companies and considered this in the context of the fair value range determined by management for this contract.
com 77 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Financials Auditors Report Independent auditors report continued Tax: Substantial Shareholdings Exemption SSE - SSE is an exemption from corporate tax on gains on the disposal of investments in which a trading group or company holds more than 10% of the share capital of a trading company, for more than 12 months in the 2 year period prior to the date of disposal.
The Group does not provide for deferred tax liabilities in respect of portfolio valuation movements on the basis that the Group qualifies as a trading group under the SSE legislation.
There is an ongoing risk that should IP Groups activities become substantially non-trading in nature or the legislation changes a deferred tax liability would be required to be provided.
We have engaged tax specialists to review the Groups activities, including the roles and responsibilities of the Groups employees in order to assess whether the Group meets the statutory test for not having substantially non-trading activities and tested the various relative financial measures included within the HMRC manuals to the Groups financial statements, as well as reviewing HMRC clearances obtained in prior years.
We have reviewed any relevent HMRC correspondence on SSE matters during the year and up to the date of this report.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 72.
Purpose of this report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
We define planning materiality as the magnitude by which misstatements, including omissions, could influence the economic decisions of reasonable users that are taken on the basis of the financial statements.
We also determine a level of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined planning materiality for the financial statements as a whole to be 3,400,000.
In determining this, we based our assessment on a level of 1% of total assets which reflects the underlying precision within the valuation of the investment portfolio and the range of reasonable possible alternative valuations that could be expected to apply to the unquoted investments.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the Companys control environment, our judgment is that performance materiality for the financial statements should be 65% of materiality i. e. 2,200,000.
Our objective in adopting this approach is to ensure that total detected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our materiality of 3,400,000 for the financial statements as a whole.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 34,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 78 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Financials Auditors Report Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 49, in relation to going concern: and the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Neil Fung-On senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor 55 Baker Street, London United Kingdom 3 March 2014 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
com 79 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Financials Auditors Report
