Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Report on the Group financial statements Overview of our audit approach Our opinion Materiality In our opinion the Group financial statements, defined below: We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at to evaluate the effect of misstatements both individually and on the 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for financial statements as a whole.
the year then ended: Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for have been properly prepared in accordance with International the Group financial statements as a whole to be 8.9m.
In arriving at Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the this judgement we have had regard to profit before tax adjusted for European Union: and non-recurring exceptional items refer to note 3 in the financial have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the statements because, in our view, this is the most relevant measure Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them remainder of this report.
misstatements identified during our audit above 0.5 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted What we have audited reporting for qualitative reasons.
The Group financial statements, which are prepared by Jardine Overview of the scope of our audit Lloyd Thompson Group plc, comprise: The Group is organised on a worldwide basis into three main the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: segments, based on the services and products offered: Risk & the consolidated income statement and statement of Insurance, Employee Benefits and Head Office & Other comprehensive income for the year then ended: operations.
These segments are consistent with the internal reporting structure of the Group.
the consolidated statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the the summary of significant accounting policies and notes to the reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, or consolidated financial statements, which includes other component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under explanatory information.
Where the work was performed by component The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude European Union.
whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in whole.
the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross referenced Certain components within the segments lines required an audit of from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
their complete financial information, either due to their size or to ensure we obtained appropriate coverage across all account What an audit of financial statements involves balances.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards The work performed on the components, together with additional on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves procedures performed at the Group level gave us the evidence we obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether Areas of particular audit focus caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant circumstances and have been consistently applied and accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and adequately disclosed: considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors the directors: and judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered audited Group financial statements and to identify any information necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions, that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of controls and substantive procedures or a combination of both.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for We considered the following areas to be those that required our report.
particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit & Risk Committee.
Their report on those matters they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 53.
76 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 Going Concern How the scope of our audit addressed the area Area of focus of focus Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Risk of management override We assessed the overall control environment directors statement, set out on page 73 in relation to of the Group, including the arrangements for of internal controls going concern.
We have nothing to report having staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, performed our review.
ISAs UK & Ireland require that and interviewed senior management and the we consider this.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have Groups internal audit function.
We examined concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups the significant accounting estimates and financial statements using the going concern basis of judgements relevant to the financial accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the statements for evidence of bias by the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, directors that may represent a risk of material and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Risk of fraud in revenue We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls over cut-off, However, because not all future events or conditions can recognition existence and accuracy of revenue be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to ISAs UK & Ireland presume recognised in the financial statements.
the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
there is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition because of We tested a selection of revenue transactions the pressure the directors may Opinion on other matter prescribed by and performed testing of accrued income.
In feel to achieve the planned addition, we have assessed the the Companies Act 2006 results.
We focused on the appropriateness of all significant estimates In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic timing of revenue recognition, within the revenue balance having regard to Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for the treatment of discounts, the potential for bias and taking account of which the Group financial statements are prepared is incentives and commissions the accuracy of prior period estimates.
consistent with the Group financial statements.
and the accounting for multiple element arrangements.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of information and explanations received Provision for errors and We reviewed the directors process for the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report identification and evaluation of provisions for omissions E&O to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the the Groups outstanding E&O cases.
We focused on this area information and explanations we require for our audit.
We because of the inherent We evaluated the Groups E&O insurance have no exceptions to report arising from this uncertainty which can surround programme and whether any related responsibility.
legal disputes and insurance assets booked are in line with the consequently the judgemental Directors remuneration E&O programme.
nature in estimating the level of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report We reviewed the adequacy of the provision provision required.
to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors by considering the status of the known and remuneration specified by law have not been made.
We potential claims, including the underlying have no exceptions to report arising from this assumptions and sensitivities having regard to responsibility.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part Initial measurement of We have assessed the directors estimates of of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the goodwill and intangibles goodwill and intangible assets arising on the Parent Companys compliance with nine provisions of the acquisition based on the methodology and During the year the Group UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have assumptions made in relation to retention acquired Towers Watsons nothing to report having performed our review.
reinsurance business for a On page 73 of the Annual Report, as required by the consideration of 177 million We read the sale and purchase agreement to Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they refer to note 29 to the financial confirm that the rights and obligations under consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, statements.
the contract have been appropriately reflected balanced and understandable and provides the in the financial statements.
We focused on this transaction information necessary for members to assess the Groups due to the magnitude of the We performed testing of the completion performance, business model and strategy.
On page 53, acquisition and the extent of balance sheet of the acquired business to as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit & Risk the judgements involved in ensure that appropriate amounts had been Committee has set out the significant issues that it estimating the value of goodwill included in the goodwill calculation.
considered in relation to the financial statements, and and intangible assets acquired.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 77 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT the statement given by the directors is materially Other Matter inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group We have reported separately on the Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or financial statements of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc the section of the Annual Report describing the work for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is address matters communicated by us to the Audit & described as having been audited.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the Richard Weaver Senior Statutory Auditor audited Group financial statements: or for and on behalf of  LLP apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group London acquired in the course of performing our audit: or 14th March 2014 is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this Notes: responsibility.
The maintenance and integrity of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc website is the responsibility of the Responsibilities for the financial directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not statements and the audit involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, Our responsibilities and those of the directors the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities may have occurred to the financial statements since they Statement set out on pages 72 and 73, the directors are were initially presented on the website.
responsible for the preparation of the Group financial Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the statements and for being satisfied that they give a true preparation and dissemination of financial statements may and fair view.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
