Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited Opinion on Financial Statements of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited In our opinion the Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The Financial Statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes 1 to 25.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement on page 39 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identied any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of investments We assessed the assumptions used in the valuation model to determine the fair value of investments, described in note 11 There is a risk that the assessment of the valuation of investments to the financial statements.
Our audit procedures included, at fair value is not appropriate.
The Groups investments comprise among others: equity and subordinated debt interests in PPP Infrastructure projects for which there is no liquid market, and hence there challenge of macroeconomic data including ination and are significant judgements regarding cash ow forecasts and tax rate forecasts and discount rates comparing these to discount rates involved in their valuation.
observable market data: reviewing managements cash ow projections, focusing on changes since date of acquisition and comparison against actual results for the underlying investments: and Testing the incorporation of the assumptions into the valuation and the correct application of selected discount rates.
Investment entities There is a key judgement as to the appropriateness of the We challenged managements assessment that the group application of new accounting requirements in respect of meets the denition of an investment entity against the criteria investment entities, which is a new set of accounting standards set out in Investment Entities amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 that define an investment entity and introduce the exception to and IAS 27 and that certain subsidiaries are consolidated by consolidating particular subsidiaries.
There are judgements considering the evidence in support of this view.
We have applied in determining whether the Group meets the denition considered the adequacy of the disclosures within the financial of an investment entity, whereby the Groups investments in statements required by this standard.
PPP subsidiaries are not consolidated and instead held at fair value, and judgement as to whether any subsidiaries should be consolidated.
Revenue recognition There is a risk in respect of revenue recognition that revenue Investment income comprises dividends and interest received may be recognised prematurely or that accrued interest income from PPP investments.
We have carried out detailed testing of is included as both a debtor and in the cash ow forecasts for this income, considering specically the timing of recognition the investment valuation.
and consistency with fair valuation models for each project and comparison of the cash ows for the fair valuation models against debtors to check that the assets are not recorded both within the investment valuation and income.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2013 43.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 35.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is not modied with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 24 million, which is below 3% of equity.
This has been determined using a benchmark of equity net assets which we believe is the key benchmark used by members of the Company in assessing financial performance.
We have applied a lower materiality threshold of 2.4 million for cash affecting balances such as interest income, dividend income and administrative costs as such transactions are important to investors and provide the net income to support distributions to shareholders.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.48 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit The Group is considered to have a single significant component, being the company itself.
There are a number of individual legal entities where our work was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company: or the Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and or those further matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Richard Anthony Garrard FCA for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor Guernsey, Channel Islands 24 March 2014
