Financial statements 100 Report of the independent auditors Consolidated financial statements Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB United Kingdom opinion As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements the Independent Auditors Report to the members of group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS as issued by BT Group plc the company the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the Group income In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRS statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group as issued by the IASB.
balance sheet, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group cash ow statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law In our opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors for and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the financial year for which the consolidated financial statements are the European Union.
prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities We have nothing to report in respect of the following: set out on page 93, the directors are responsible for the preparation of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they our opinion: give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and not made: or Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing we have not received all the information and explanations we Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for Under the Listin g Rules we are required to review: the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of the directors statement, set out on page 93, in relation to going Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do concern: not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Governance Code specified for our review: and consent in writing.
certain elements of the Report on Directors Remuneration.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We have reported separately on the parent company financial disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable statements of BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 and on assurance that the financial statements are free from material the information in the Report on Directors Remuneration that is misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an described as having been audited.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors, and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F for the year ended 31 March 2013 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited consolidated financial statements.
If we become Paul Barkus Senior Statutory Auditor aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we for and on behalf of  LLP consider the implications for our report.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom Opinion on financial statements 9 May 2013 In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2013 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
