Independent Auditors Report Opinion on financial statements of JPMorgan American Investment How the scope of our audit Risk responded to the risk Trust plc In our opinion the financial statements: Valuation of investments We documented and assessed The investments of the Company the design and implementation give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys make up 111% of total net assets.
of controls in place to value the affairs as at 31st December 2013 and of its profit for the year investment portfolio.
then ended: There is a risk that investments within the portfolio may not be We agreed the valuation of 100% have been properly prepared in accordance with United actively traded or that the prices of the listed investment portfolio Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and quoted may not be reflective of to third party pricing sources.
Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the fair value.
Association of Investment Companies in January 2009 In order to confirm that investments are actively traded, Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and we verified trading activity and Venture Capital Trusts: and volume, on a sample basis, of have been prepared in accordance with the requirements investments held around the year of the Companies Act 2006. end.
The financial statements comprise the Income Statement, the In order to confirm that Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the investments should not be Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 impaired, we identified to 23.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied investments which are not in their preparation is applicable law, United Kingdom frequently traded and monitored Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted the price of any post year-end Accounting Practice and the Statement of Recommended sales.
Practice issued by the Association of Investment Companies in Ownership of investments We tested the ownership of January 2009 Financial Statements of Investment Trust The investments of the Company investments by verifying 100% Companies and Venture Capital Trusts.
make up 111% of total net assets.
of the portfolio to an There is a risk that the assets independent confirmation from Going concern recorded may not represent the the custodian.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the We reviewed a report prepared Directors statement contained within the Directors Report on on the design and operation page 31 that the Company is a going concern.
We confirm that: of controls at the custodian to confirm that no issues with the we have concluded that the Directors use of the going controls in place over the concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the safekeeping of assets at the financial statements is appropriate: and custodian had been identified.
we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue Compliance with Sections 1158 1159 We evaluated the design and as a going concern.
of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 the implementation of the Act procedures and controls to However, because not all future events or conditions can be Failure to comply with the monitor compliance with predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the provisions of the Act could have Sections 1158 1159 of the Act.
Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
a significant impact on the We also performed testing to operations of the Company.
confirm compliance with Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Sections 1158 1159 of the Act on a sample basis.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of page 36. the engagement team: 44 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed Matters on which we are required to report by exception in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not you if, in our opinion: modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Our application of materiality adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the branches not visited by us: or financial statements that makes it probable that the economic the financial statements are not in agreement with the decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be accounting records and returns.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration We determined materiality for the group to be 19.3 million, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report which is below 3% of total shareholders funds.
if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 50,000, Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report these matters.
to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we Corporate Governance Statement identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part financial statements.
of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK An overview of the scope of our audit Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the from our review.
entity and its environment, including internal control, and Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we directly by the audit engagement team.
are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: As part of our audit we assessed the controls in place at the materially inconsistent with the information in the audited fund administrator who prepares the financial statement of the financial statements: or Company by reviewing a controls report over their activities.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or In our opinion: otherwise misleading.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with In particular, we are required to consider whether we have the Companies Act 2006: and identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that the information given in the Strategic Report and the they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and Directors Report for the financial year for which the understandable and whether the annual report appropriately financial statements are prepared is consistent with discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit the financial statements.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 45 Independent Auditors Report continued Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We Scope of the audit of the financial statements confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and misleading statements.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by opinion on the financial statements in accordance with the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonand Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the financial information in the annual report to identify material Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems become aware of any apparent material misstatements or include our dedicated professional standards review team and inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Stuart McLaren Senior Statutory Auditor body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, might state to the companys members those matters we are London, United Kingdom required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 25th March 2014 accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
46 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
