Independent Auditors Report To the members of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment have been prepared in accordance with the requirements Trust plc of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of JPMorgan Emerging Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Markets Investment Trust plc for the year ended 30th June 2013 In our opinion: which comprise the Income Statement, Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the framework that has been applied in their preparation is Companies Act 2006: and applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards the information given in the Directors Report for the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Matters on which we are required to report by exception Responsibilities set out on page 32, the Directors are We have nothing to report in respect of the following: responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our you if, in our opinion: responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and adequate accounting records have not been kept, or International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those returns adequate for our audit have not been received from standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices branches not visited by us: or Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and with the accounting records and returns: or only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume law are not made: or responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to we have not received all the information and explanations whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come we require for our audit.
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Directors statement, set out on page 22, in relation An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and to going concern: disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting review: and policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Board on Directors remuneration.
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor non-financial information in the Annual Report & Accounts to for and on behalf of  LLP identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material London misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
4th October 2013 Notes: Opinion on financial statements a The maintenance and integrity of the JPMorgan Emerging Markets In our opinion the financial statements: Investment Trust plc website www.
co. uk is the responsibility of JPMAM: the work carried out by the Auditors does not give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept affairs as at 30th June 2013 and of its net return and cash no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial flows for the year then ended: statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and have been properly prepared in accordance with United dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and jurisdictions.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
