INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC ONLY OPINION AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Bunzl plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Group and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and related notes.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatements that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: The risk Our response Business combination accounting goodwill and intangible assets recognised in 2013 of 208.5m Refer to page 45 Audit Committee report, page 77 accounting policy and pages 104 to 107 financial disclosures Given the acquisitive nature of the Group, accounting for acquisitions Our audit procedures in this area included assessing the is considered a significant audit risk due to the judgements involved.
competency of the external experts used by the Group to value Any error made in the identification and or valuation of acquired significant acquired intangibles.
We challenged, through our own intangibles gives rise to an equal, compensating error in goodwill.
experience, the methodology and assumptions used, in particular Whereas acquired intangibles are amortised in the income those relating to the growth and discount rates used to determine statement, goodwill is carried at cost with only impairment losses the present value of the cash flow projections.
We also assessed affecting the income statement.
whether the Groups disclosures about the business combinations are appropriate and in accordance with relevant accounting standards.
Goodwill and intangibles value at 31 December 2013 of 1,456.9m Refer to page 45 Audit Committee report, page 78 accounting policy and pages 87 to 88 financial disclosures The recoverability of these assets, which are spread across multiple In this area our audit procedures included, among others, using our geographies and economies, is dependent on individual businesses own valuation specialist to assist us in evaluating the judgements acquired sustaining sufficient profitability in the future.
Due to the and methodologies used by the Group, in particular those relating inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future to the discount rate used to determine the present value of the cash cash flows, which are the basis of the assessment of recoverability, flow projections.
We compared the Groups assumptions to this is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit is externally derived data, as well as to our own assessments, concentrated on.
in relation to key inputs such as projected economic growth, competition, cost inflation and discount rates and applied sensitivities in assessing whether the Groups assessments were too conservative or optimistic.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures reflected appropriately the outcome of its impairment testing.
Tax total tax charge of 83.1m, income tax payable of 62.2m Refer to page 45 Audit Committee report, page 79 accounting policy and pages 84 to 85 financial disclosures Tax provisioning is considered a significant audit risk due to the Using the knowledge and experience of our own tax specialists, both Group operating in a number of tax jurisdictions, the complexities at a Group and component level, we challenged the appropriateness of international tax legislation and the time taken for tax matters of the directors judgements and estimates in relation to tax liabilities to be agreed with the local tax authorities.
including the range of possible amounts that may be assessed under tax laws, likely settlement based on the latest correspondence with The directors are required to make judgements and estimates the relevant tax authorities and the complexity of tax legislation.
We in determining the liability for income taxes recognised in the also assessed whether the Groups tax disclosures are appropriate consolidated financial statements.
and in accordance with relevant accounting standards.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 117 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC ONLY CONTINUED The risk Our response Retirement benefit obligations 45.0m Refer to page 45 Audit Committee report, page 79 accounting policy and pages 99 to 102 financial disclosures The Group has a number of defined benefit pension schemes.
Using the knowledge and experience of our own actuarial specialists, Significant estimates are made in valuing the Groups postwe challenged the key assumptions and estimates applied to retirement defined benefit schemes and small changes in membership data to determine the Groups net deficit including assumptions and estimates used to value the Groups net pension discount rate, inflation rate and mortality life expectancy.
This included deficit would have a significant effect on the results and financial a comparison of these key assumptions against externally derived data.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficits to these assumptions.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of In particular, we are required to report to you if: our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set we have identified material inconsistencies between the at 15m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors of Group profit before taxation of which it represents 5.2%, which statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected the Audit Committee report on page 44 does not appropriately and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
with a value in excess of 0.75m in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believed warranted Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, reporting on qualitative grounds.
in our opinion: Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent audit teams at 35 components in North America, Continental Europe, company or returns adequate for our audit have not been received UK & Ireland and Rest of the World.
In addition, specified audit from branches not visited by us: or procedures were performed by five components in the United the parent company financial statements and the part of the Kingdom and Continental Europe.
These Group procedures covered Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 99% of total Group revenue: 98% of Group profit before taxation and with the accounting records and returns: or 98% of total Group assets.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at all the key are not made: or reporting components of the Group were all performed to local we have not received all the information and explanations we materiality levels.
These local materiality levels were set individually require for our audit.
for each component and agreed with the Group audit team and ranged from 53,000 to 12.8m.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Detailed instructions were sent to all the auditors in these locations.
the directors statement, set out on page 29, in relation to going These instructions covered the significant areas that should be concern: and addressed by the component auditors which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the the part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 39 to 43 information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of The Group audit team visited the following locations: North America, the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors at these locations and the majority of the other locations We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
that were not physically visited.
Scope of report and responsibilities 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities Act 2006 is unmodified set out on page 116, the directors are responsible for the preparation In our opinion: of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely the information given in the strategic report and the directors to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important report for the financial year for which the financial statements explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, we are required to report by exception the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified Michael Maloney Senior Statutory Auditor other information in the Annual Report that contains a material for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, Chartered Accountants a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
15 Canada Square, London 24 February 2014 118 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
