Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 198 199 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 InDePenDenT AuDITORS RePORT TO THe MeMBeRS OF llOYDS BAnKInG GROuP PlC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and of the Groups and Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the european union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the european union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements, which are prepared by lloyds Banking Group plc the Parent Company, comprise: the Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2013: the Consolidated income statement and the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity and cash flow statements for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the european union and, as regards the Parent Company, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing uK and Ireland ISAs uK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Independent auditors report 198 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Consolidated financial statements 204 198 199 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 212 Parent company financial statements 366 Notes to the parent company financial statements 369 1 44 69 123 377 Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 265 million.
In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to interest and other income rather than profitability given the variability in performance in recent periods.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 10 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group is structured into four divisions being Retail Banking, Commercial Banking, Insurance, and Wealth, Asset Finance and International, as well as the Groups centralised functions Group Operations and Central Items.
each of the divisions and the centralised functions comprises a number of business reporting units.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of these business reporting units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC uK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
For the Groups individually financially significant reporting units a full scope audit was performed over their complete financial information.
Other reporting units were selected so that we obtained appropriate coverage across all account balances and performed audit work to cover the areas of focus we identified, and which are set out below.
The level of coverage obtained was determined by our risk assessment for each account balance.
For the other reporting units selected, either a full scope audit of their financial information or specified procedures over individual account balances were performed.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 92.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 200 201 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 InDePenDenT AuDITORS RePORT TO THe MeMBeRS OF llOYDS BAnKInG GROuP PlC Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Loan loss impairment We tested the design and operating effectiveness of controls for loan loss impairment, including We focused on the determination of governance processes.
We critically assessed the criteria for determining whether an impairment whether loans and advances were event had occurred and therefore whether a loan loss had been incurred.
We specifically tested a impaired and the measurement sample of performing loans to challenge whether impairment events had been properly identified.
of impairment, in particular, the Where impairment is calculated collectively for portfolios of loans in Retail Banking, Commercial assessment of whether historic losses Banking, and Wealth, Asset Finance and International, we understood and assessed the provisioning are indicative of incurred losses in models and underlying assumptions used.
In examining the models and assumptions, we considered the portfolios and the valuation of whether all relevant risks were reflected in the modelled provision, and where not, whether model collateral for secured lending.
overlays appropriately reflected those risks.
Where modelling assumptions were based on historic data, we assessed whether historic experience was reflective of the losses incurred in the portfolios based upon the current economic environment and the current circumstances of the borrowers.
We also tested the extraction of historic data from underlying systems to the impairment models.
For larger loan exposures predominantly in Commercial Banking where impairment is individually calculated, we understood the latest developments at the borrower and the basis of measuring the impairment provisions held, which is particularly significant in the non-core portfolio where management are pursuing an exit strategy.
We assessed the expected future cashflows and the valuation of collateral held, and challenged management as to whether valuations were up to date, consistent with the strategy being followed and appropriate for the purpose.
Conduct risk and related provisions We tested the design and operating effectiveness of controls around managements processes for identifying exposures in relation to conduct risk areas and assessing whether provisions were The Group has to make redress necessary.
We also assessed potential exposures based upon our own knowledge and experience of payments for products and business emerging industry issues and the regulatory environment.
mis-sold to customers in the past.
The Group also has exposure to associated For all provisions made, we understood and critically assessed the provisioning models and operational costs and regulatory fines.
For those underlying assumptions based on historic experience, we assessed whether this was appropriate and where it was not deemed to be appropriate, the basis for We focused on identifying products and appropriateness of changes made was assessed.
and businesses with exposures and assessing whether a provision Given the judgemental nature of all of these provisions, we assessed critically the disclosures made was necessary.
We particularly focused on assessing whether the disclosures made Where provisions were made, we sufficiently clear the significant uncertainties that exist around determining the provisions and the focused on the measurement of sensitivity of the provisions to changes in the underlying assumptions.
the provision and in particular, the assumptions underlying the calculation of the provision.
We focused the majority of our work on the provisions in relation to PPI, SMe derivatives and also in respect of the mis-selling of insurance products in the German branch of Clerical Medical.
Valuation of liabilities and assets We assessed critically the specified actuarial assumptions, including consideration of managements arising from insurance contracts rationale for the judgements applied and, where applicable, verifying back to underlying policyholder and industry benchmark data.
We also tested controls over the experience and The value the Group places on expense analysis.
insurance contracts is dependent on a number of subjective assumptions For longevity, persistency and expenses we considered recent experience and the appropriateness about future experience.
We focused of the judgements on how future experience will evolve.
on the judgements aspects of setting For credit risk and illiquidity premium we have assessed the appropriateness of the methodology economic and non-economic actuarial and any modifications made.
We assessed the underlying assumptions with reference to wider assumptions, in particular longevity, market practice and prevailing economic conditions.
persistency, expenses, credit risk and illiquidity premium for which small changes can result in material impacts to the valuation of those liabilities and the value of in-force VIF asset.
Independent auditors report 198 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Consolidated financial statements 204 200 201 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 212 Parent company financial statements 366 Notes to the parent company financial statements 369 1 44 69 123 377 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Uncertain tax positions We examined the analysis performed by management setting out the basis for their judgement in respect of the material exposures identified, together with relevant supporting evidence such as The Group has a number of open correspondence with tax authorities and legal opinions obtained.
tax matters, in respect of which management is required to make We made our own assessment of the likelihood of the tax exposures occurring and the consequential certain judgements as to the likely accounting and disclosure treatments.
In making our assessment we considered the interpretation of outturn for the purposes of calculating tax legislation in the relevant jurisdiction.
We assessed the calculation of the exposures.
We read and assessed the appropriateness of the disclosure made, in particular, in respect of contingent liabilities.
Management override of controls For judgemental balances, which could include management bias, we considered the risk in planning our audit approach and reflected this in the audit work we performed, specifically in respect of ISAs uK & Ireland state that the impairment, conduct provisions, insurance liabilities and financial instruments held at fair value.
risk of management override of controls is a significant risk on all We assessed and tested the effectiveness of company-wide controls, and performed our own audit engagements.
analytical and substantive procedures on balances in the consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
We also tested controls and performed substantive procedures over the new consolidation system.
We identified higher risk journal entries in the general ledger and assessed their appropriateness through substantiation to relevant supporting evidence.
Revenue recognition We tested the design and operating effectiveness of controls and performed substantive testing over revenue recognition including using computer-assisted audit techniques, particularly in ISAs uK & Ireland state that there is a relation to judgemental aspects such as determining effective interest rates on loans and deposits rebuttable assumption that the auditor and recognition of fee income.
will treat revenue recognition as a significant risk.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 202 203 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 InDePenDenT AuDITORS RePORT TO THe MeMBeRS OF llOYDS BAnKInG GROuP PlC Going concern under the listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 74, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Parent Companys financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
In drawing this conclusion, the directors have considered: the regulatory capital position of the Group which is critical to the market maintaining confidence in the Groups ability to absorb losses that it may occur in a market stress: and the funding and liquidity position of the Group to be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due, including in a market stress.
This is an area of focus of our audit and we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
In drawing our conclusion, we critically assessed the going concern assessment undertaken by management and approved by the Board or Directors.
As part of our assessment we have: critically assessed and challenged the appropriateness of the stress scenarios used and their impact on the Groups capital and liquidity position: understood and assessed key economic and other assumptions used in both the capital and liquidity plan and the Groups five year operating plan: and substantiated the Groups unencumbered collateral position and potential to access central bank liquidity facilities.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made, and under the listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate Governance Statement under the listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with nine provisions of the uK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 77 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 92, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
under ISAs uK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Independent auditors report 198 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Consolidated financial statements 204 202 203 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 212 Parent company financial statements 366 Notes to the parent company financial statements 369 1 44 69 123 377 Other information in the Annual Report under ISAs uK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 77, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group and Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs uK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Philip Rivett Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  llP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors london 5 March 2014 a The maintenance and integrity of the lloyds Banking Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b legislation in the united Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
