64 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Man Group plc Overview of our audit approach Report on the Group financial statements Materiality Our opinion We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine In our opinion the Group financial statements, as defined below: the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at as a whole.
31December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the have been properly prepared in accordance with International Group financial statements as a whole to be $8.3 million based on 5% of Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European profit before tax adjusted for the impairment of goodwill, onerous lease Union: and charges and the associated write off of fixed assets, the gain on disposal have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the of the Lehman claims and the gain on sale of an investment in associates.
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder misstatements identified during our audit above $0.4 million as well as of this report.
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
What we have audited The Group financial statements, which are prepared by Man Group plc, Overview of the scope of our audit comprise: The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 16 principal operating units, a number of smaller operating units, and centralised the Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting for the year then ended: units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from the Group statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work for the year then ended: and was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of the notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation statements as a whole.
comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We identified 11 reporting units based in the United Kingdom and Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have Switzerland which, in our view, required an audit of their complete been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
These are cross-referenced from the financial Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were statements and are identified as audited.
performed at a further five reporting units which included some reporting units based in the United States and Australia.
The work performed on What an audit of financial statements involves the reporting units, together with additional procedures performed at the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Group level gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group onAuditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves financial statements as a whole.
obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial Areas of particular audit focus statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of or error.
This includes an assessment of: subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available disclosed: evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the inthe financial statements.
directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained Man Group plc Annual Report the Annual Report to identify material auditevidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to procedures or a combination of both.
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, ormaterially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the We considered the following areas to be those that required particular course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the for our report.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 35.
Strategic report 65 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of goodwill We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts, and the process We focused on this area because the determination of whether or not by which they were drawn up, including comparing them to the latest an impairment charge for goodwill was necessary involved significant Board approved budgets, and testing the underlying calculations.
judgements about the future results of the Groups three business lines Wechallenged: GLG, AHL and FRM.
the directors key assumptions for flows, performance and long term Refer also to note 12 to the financial statements.
growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to historical results, economic and industry forecasts: and the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the company and comparable organisations.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers in the calculation of the discounted future cash flow.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptionsarising.
Fraud in revenue recognition We recalculated a sample of revenue transactions recorded by ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition management using the related prospectus documents and tested cash because of the pressure management may feel to achieve the planned receipts for a sample of revenue transactions that had been recorded.
We also tested a sample of manual journal entries posted to revenue The underlying calculation of revenue is performed by a third party accounts to identify unusual or irregular items.
outsourced administrator and therefore has a lower risk of fraud.
We have therefore focused on the journal entries used to record revenue in the books and records of Man.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested a sample of manual journal entries.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 71, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
66 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Man Group plc continued Other information in the Annual Report Opinion on matters prescribed by the Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our Companies Act 2006 opinion, information in the Annual Report is: In our opinion the information given in the Strategic report and the materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group Directors report for the financial year for which the Group financial financial statements: or statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing Other matters on which we are required our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
to report by exception Adequacy of information and explanations received We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in ouropinion we have not received all the information and explanations Responsibilities for the financial werequire for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from thisresponsibility.
statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors Directors remuneration As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our outon page 63, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to and fair view.
review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group these responsibilities.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Corporate Governance statement Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Companys compliance This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 We have nothing to report having performed our review.
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other On page 63 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information consent in writing.
necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in Other matter relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: of Man Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our having been audited.
knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Parwinder Purewal Senior Statutory Auditor the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit and for and on behalf of  LLP Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
London 27 February 2014 We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
