The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 31 Independent Auditors Report To the members of The Mercantile Investment Trust plc have been properly prepared in accordance with We have audited the financial statements of The United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Mercantile Investment Trust plc for the year ended Practice: and 31st January 2013 which comprise the Income have been prepared in accordance with the Statement, Reconciliation of Movements in requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Statement and the related notes.
The financial In our opinion: reporting framework that has been applied in their the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom be audited has been properly prepared in Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors financial year for which the financial statements are As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Responsibilities set out on page 30, the Directors are Matters on which we are required to report by exception responsible for the preparation of the financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following: statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to an opinion on the financial statements in accordance report to you if, in our opinion: with applicable law and International Standards on adequate accounting records have not been kept, or Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to returns adequate for our audit have not been comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical received from branches not visited by us: or Standards for Auditors.
the financial statements and the part of the This report, including the opinion, has been prepared Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are for and only for the Companys members as a body in not in agreement with the accounting records and accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies returns: or Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving certain disclosures of directors remuneration this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any specified by law are not made: or other purpose or to any other person to whom this we have not received all the information and report is shown or into whose hands it may come save explanations we require for our audit.
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Directors statement, set out on page 22, in An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts relation to going concern: and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement give reasonable assurance that the financial statements relating to the Companys compliance with the nine are free from material misstatement, whether caused by provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether specified for our review: and the accounting policies are appropriate to the certain elements of the report to shareholders by Companys circumstances and have been consistently the Board on Directors remuneration.
applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial for and on behalf of  LLP statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors non-financial information in the Annual Report & London Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the 21st March 2013 audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we Notes: consider the implications for our report.
a The maintenance and integrity of The Mercantile Investment Trust plc website www.
co. uk is the responsibility of JPMAM: the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve Opinion on financial statements consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors In our opinion the financial statements: accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st January 2013 and of its b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation net return and cash flows for the year then ended: in other jurisdictions.
