The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Merchants Trust PLC We have audited the financial statements of The Merchants have been properly prepared in accordance with United Trust PLC the company for the year ended 31 January 2013 Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and which comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash the Companies Act 2006.
Flow Statement, the Statement of Accounting Policies and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been Opinion on other matters prescribed by the applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted In our opinion: Accounting Practice.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Act 2006: and As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the information given in the Directors Report for the financial Responsibilities set out on page 35, the directors are responsible year for which the financial statements are prepared is for the preparation of the financial statements and for being consistent with the financial statements.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in Matters on which we are required to report by accordance with applicable law and International Standards on exception Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply We have nothing to report in respect of the following: with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and in our opinion: only for the companys members as a body in accordance with adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other adequate for our audit have not been received from branches purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume not visited by us: or responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to the financial statements and the part of the Directors whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations we An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts require for our audit.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This the directors statement, set out on page 26, in relation to going includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are concern: appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board on we read all the financial and non-financial information in the directors remuneration.
Annual Financial Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any Kelvin Laing-Williams apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider Senior Statutory Auditor the implications for our report.
for and on behalf of  LLP, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London Opinion on financial statements 27 March 2013 In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 January 2013 and of its net return and cash flows for the year then ended: 40 Corn Exchange, Leeds The Merchants Trust PLC Financial Statements 41 johnbraid Shutterstock.
