Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray Income Trust PLC We have audited the Financial Statements of Murray Income have been properly prepared in accordance with United Trust PLC for the year ended 30 June 2013 which comprise Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Reconciliation of have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Cash Flow Statement the Companies Act 2006. and the related notes 1 to 19.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is Opinion on other matters prescribed by the applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards Companies Act 2006 United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 to the Companies Act 2006: and Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so the information given in the Directors Report for the that we might state to the Company's members those financial year for which the financial statements are matters we are required to state to them in an auditors prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Matters on which we are required to report by to anyone other than the Company and the Company's exception members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Respective responsibilities of Directors and you if, in our opinion: Auditor adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors branches not visited by us: or Responsibilities set out on page 33, the Directors are the financial statements and the part of the Directors responsible for the preparation of the financial statements Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
with the accounting records and returns: or Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by accordance with applicable law and International Standards law are not made: or on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to we have not received all the information and explanations comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Directors Statement, set out on page 26, in relation to An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and going concern: and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the part of the Statement of Corporate Governance relating reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting our review: and policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and certain elements of the report to the shareholders by the have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Board on Directors remuneration.
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Companys 2013 Annual Susan Dawe Senior Statutory Auditor Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of Edinburgh any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 11 September 2013 consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: 36 Murray Income Trust PLC
