Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray International Trust PLC We have audited the financial statements of Murray Opinion on financial statements International Trust PLC the year ended 31 December 2013 In our opinion the financial statements: which comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 21.
The affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Companys financial reporting framework that has been applied in their profit loss for the year then ended: preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom have been properly prepared in accordance with United Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Accounting Practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so We identified the following risks of material misstatement that we might state to the Companys members those that had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the matters we are required to state to them in an auditors allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent of the engagement team: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys Incorrect valuation and ownership of the investment members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for portfolio: and the opinions we have formed.
Management and performance fees are not calculated correctly in accordance with the investment management Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor agreement.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 39, the directors are Our application of materiality responsible for the preparation of the Company financial We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and performing our audit, in evaluating the effect of fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements opinion on the Company financial statements in accordance and in forming our audit opinion.
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with We determined planning materiality for the Company to be the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
12.3 million, which is 1% of equity shareholders funds.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and Scope of the audit of the financial statements extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting assessment of the Companys overall control environment, policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and our judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by balance for the Company should be 75% of materiality, the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial namely 9.2 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonwas to ensure that total detected and undetected audit financial information in the annual report to identify material differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to level.
Given the importance of the distinction between identify any information that is apparently materially revenue and capital for the Company we have also applied a incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the separate performance materiality of 2.9 million for the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Income Statement, being 5% of the return on ordinary audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material activities before taxation.
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
We have agreed to report to the Committee any audit differences in excess of 0.6 million, as well as differences below that threshold that in our view warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
40 Murray International Trust PLC certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by An overview of the scope of our audit law are not made: or Our response to the risks identified above was as follows: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We agreed the year end prices to an independent source and the investment holdings to the independent custodian Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: report: and We independently recalculated management fee and the directors statement, set out on page 25, in relation to performance fee calculations for the year with reference to going concern: and contractual arrangements and agreed the calculation inputs the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to to source data.
the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Susan Dawe Senior statutory auditor In our opinion: for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Edinburgh the information given in the Strategic Report and the 10 March 2014 Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Murray International Trust PLC 41
