Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups loss and of the Groups and Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements, which are prepared by Cairn Energy PLC, comprise: the Group and Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group and Parent Company statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We consider an item to be material if, in our judgement, it is likely to impact the economic decisions of the members of Cairn Energy PLC to whom this report is addressed.
We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be $36 million.
This represents approximately 1% of total assets, which we consider to be an appropriate measure for an exploration and development Oil and Gas group that does not currently have producing assets.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $1.8 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group is structured in two key operating segments which are further subdivided by geography based on exploration activities: Frontier Exploration North Atlantic: Frontier Exploration Africa: Mature Basin UK and Norwegian North Sea: and Other Cairn Energy Group.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 166 entities, comprising the groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the entities by us, as the group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those entities to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
A large number of the entities were established to hold individual licence interests which in the current period have little or no activity, accordingly we identified that only 6 entities required an audit of their complete financial information due to their size.
In addition, specific audit procedures were performed on certain balances and transactions at a further 8 entities.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC Continued This work gave us coverage of 93% over the Group total assets at 31 December 2013 and, together with the procedures performed at a Group level, including confirming bank balances and goodwill impairment testing, gave us the evidence we needed to form our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following risks, arising from risk of fraud, error and or judgement, to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 78 to 80.
Nature of risk Risks Fraud Error Judgement Impairment of exploration development costs and goodwill X X X Tax judgements X X Management override of controls X The scope of our audit addressed these risks as follows: Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of capitalised exploration and development costs and goodwill We tested managements impairment review of goodwill and capitalised We focused on this area due to the significant value attached to goodwill and exploration and development costs.
Specific work included: comparing the assumptions used within the impairment review model to the capitalised exploration and development costs in the balance sheet.
Management approved budgets and business plans and other evidence of future intentions are required to make a number of significant judgements in determining the for individual exploration properties: recognition of, and the carrying value of, these assets and in determining benchmarking of key assumptions including commodity price and discount whether there are any indicators of impairment.
rate and inflation: comparing reserves and production profiles to group approved values or Potential indicators of impairment could include: unsuccessful exploration activities: operator estimates: falling commodity prices and or cost escalation: matching capital and operating expenditure forecasts to group approved or operator estimates: changing reserves estimates: and performing sensitivity analysis over key assumptions in the model in order consolidated net assets greater than the market capitalisation of the group.
to assess the potential impact of a range of possible outcomes: checking the impairment models for mathematical accuracy: and Refer to Note 2.1 to the financial statements.
considering the overall impact on the valuation of our knowledge of Cairn and the industry.
100 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC Continued Tax judgements Our assessment of the tax judgements, was made on the basis of: our tax knowledge from similar circumstances and past experience: We focused on this area because: Cairn operates in a complex tax environment comprising a number of our understanding of the Group and the relevant transactions: jurisdictions with specific tax rules relating to oil and gas activities.
As a reviewing correspondence with tax authorities and or evidence from result, management have to make significant judgements regarding current similar precedent: and and deferred tax positions: and our professional judgement.
specifically, on 22 January 2014 the Group received a request for information In relation to corporate and deferred tax positions: from the Indian tax authorities in respect of amendments introduced in the we have considered the information available in relation to the Groups 2012 Indian Finance Act which seek to tax prior year transactions under open tax positions and assessed the associated level of provisioning: legislation applied retrospectively.
At the same time the Group received an order not to sell the remaining shares in Cairn India.
Management have we have considered the impact of the Groups future plans and current made judgements in respect of this notification.
legislation specifically related to oil and gas on the recognition of deferred tax.
In particular, we have assessed the treatment of heavy oil field allowances Refer to Note 4.3 and 6.1 to the financial statements.
awarded at the time of Field Development Plan approval in line with industry practice: and we assessed the basis on which deferred tax assets are expected to be recovered.
In assessing the potential impact of the request for information by the Indian tax authorities we read the correspondence received by the Group, understood the group reconstruction under review, and the potential basis for any claim, including the relevant legislation and other precedents.
In doing this, we considered : the Directors view that no provision for tax should be made at this time: the adequacy of the disclosure in the Annual Report: and the impact of the restriction on sale of Cairn India shares on the future funding requirements for the Group.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
senior management and the Groups internal audit function in respect of fraud.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested the appropriateness of manual journal entries.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 75, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Parent Companys financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 75 to 77 in the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 101 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC Continued Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 75 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 79, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 74, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group and Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Michael Timar Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Glasgow 17 March 2014 Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the Cairn Energy PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
102 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Contents 104 Group Income Statement 104 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 105 Group Balance Sheet 106 Group Statement of Cash Flow 107 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 108 Section 1 Basis of Preparation 108 1.1 Significant Accounting Policies 110 Section 2 Oil and Gas Assets and Related Goodwill 111 2.1 Intangible Exploration Appraisal Assets 113 2.2 Property, Plant & Equipment Development Producing Assets 113 2.3 Capital Commitments 114 2.4 Intangible Assets Goodwill 115 2.5 Impairment Sensitivity Analysis 116 Section 3 Financial Assets, Working Capital and Provisions 116 3.1 Available-for-sale Financial Assets 117 3.2 Net Funds 118 3.3 Income Tax Assets 118 3.4 Other Receivables 118 3.5 Trade and Other Payables 119 3.6 Provisions 119 3.7 Financial Instruments 121 Section 4 Results for the Year 121 4.1 Segmental Analysis 123 4.2 Finance Income 124 4.3 Taxation on Loss 126 4.4 Earnings per Ordinary Share 127 Section 5 Capital Structure and Other Disclosures 127 5.1 Issued Capital and Reserves 128 5.2 Capital Management 128 5.3 Staff Costs 129 5.4 Share-based Payments 130 5.5 Directors Emoluments and Remuneration of Key Management Personnel 131 5.6 Guarantees 132 Section 6 Post Balance Sheet Events 132 6.1 Restriction on Sale of Available-for-sale Financial Asset 132 6.2 Farm-down of Senegal Licences 133 Company Balance Sheet 134 Company Statement of Cash Flow 135 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 136 Section 7 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 136 7.1 Basis of Preparation 136 7.2 Net Funds 136 7.3 Other Receivables 136 7.4 Trade and Other Payables 137 7.5 Financial Instruments 137 7.6 Investments in Subsidiaries 138 7.7 Capital Management 138 7.8 Related Party Transactions 140 Appendices to the Group and Company Financial Statements 140 Appendix 1 Prior Year Corporate Acquisitions 142 Appendix 2 Principal Subsidiary Undertakings 143 Appendix 3 Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies 145 Appendix 4 Share-based Payments 146 Appendix 5 Auditors Remuneration Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 103
