Independent auditors report to the members of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Opinion on financial statements of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2013 and of the Groups pro t for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Movements in Equity and the related notes 1 to 59.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 3 to the Group financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement in section A4 that the Group is a going concern.
We con rm that: we have not identi ed material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast signi cant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern which we believe would need to be disclosed in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: the assessment of the Groups calculation of provisions for impairment losses against loans and receivables is complex and requires management to make signi cant judgements regarding expectations of future cash ows arising from customers and the realisation of any security held: The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 74 C Independent auditors report revenue recognition and speci cally the application of the requirement in IAS 39 Financial Instruments IAS 39 to recognise income on loans using an effective interest rate method is a complex area, requiring management to make signi cant judgements relating to the expected life of each loan and the cash ows related thereto: and determining the key assumptions used to calculate the present value of the retirement bene t obligation requires signi cant management judgement in relation to in ation rates, discount rates and mortality rates.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modi ed with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 7.9 million, which is 7.5% of pre-tax pro t and represents 0.9% of equity.
We agreed with the Audit and Compliance Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 156,000, as well as differences below that threshold that in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Compliance Committee on disclosure matters that we identi ed when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit scope focused on the principal trading subsidiaries within the Groups two reportable segments and account for 100% of the Groups pro t before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identi ed above.
Our audit work on the principal trading subsidiaries comprised statutory audits which were executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were much lower than group materiality.
The way in which we scoped our response to the risks identi ed above was as follows: we challenged the appropriateness of managements key assumptions used in the impairment calculations for loans and receivables, including speci cally the estimation of future cash ows, the valuation of the underlying security, and the identi cation of impaired accounts.
This involved benchmarking the assumptions against external economic and industry data and analysis of the Groups historic experience.
Sensitivity analysis was also performed in relation to the key assumptions in order to assess the potential for management bias: we challenged managements assumptions used in the recognition of revenue using the effective interest rate method, including the impact of early redemptions, and assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted were in compliance with IFRS.
This involved benchmarking the assumptions using external economic data and industry reports and the Groups historic experience.
Sensitivity analysis was also performed in relation to the key assumptions in order to assess the potential for management bias: we evaluated the appropriateness of the principal actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the retirement bene t obligation, as set out in note 50 using market data from our in-house actuarial specialists detailing the range of assumptions used as at 30 September 2013.
We also performed sensitivity analysis over the key assumptions in order to assess the potential for management bias.
The Audit and Compliance Committees consideration of these risks is set out in section B2.1.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 75 C Independent auditors report Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the Directors remuneration report.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identi ed any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Compliance Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We con rm that we have not identi ed any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, in section B5, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 76 C Independent auditors report Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
PETER BIRCH Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Birmingham, United Kingdom 26 November 2013 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 77 C Independent auditors report
