Independent auditors review report to the Directors of Partnership Assurance Group plc on the consolidated partnership Group market consistent embedded value MCEV supplementary information We have audited the consolidated Group market consistent embedded Scope of the audit of the MCEV supplementary information value supplementary information the MCEV supplementary An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and information of Partnership Assurance Group plc for the year ended disclosures in the MCEV supplementary information sufficient to give 31 December 2013 which comprises the Group MCEV analysis of reasonable assurance that the supplementary information is free from earnings, covered business analysis of movement in embedded value, material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes reconciliation of Group IFRS net assets to MCEV and the related notes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 1 to 6.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and preparation is the market consistent embedded value principles issued adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting in June 2008 by the European CFO Forum and supplemented by an estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the amendment to the MCEV principles issued by the same body in supplementary information.
In addition, we read all the financial and October 2009 the MCEV principles.
non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material We have reported separately on the statutory Group financial inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become statements of Partnership Assurance Group plc for the year ended aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we 31 December 2013.
The information contained in the MCEV consider the implications for our report.
supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the Group financial statements prepared on an IFRS basis.
Opinion This report is made solely to the Companys directors in accordance In our opinion, the MCEV supplementary information for the year with our engagement letter and solely for the purpose of expressing ended 31 December 2013 has been properly prepared in accordance an opinion as to whether the MCEV supplementary information for with the MCEV principles using the methodology and assumptions set the year ended 31 December 2013 has been properly prepared in out on pages 134 to 137. accordance with the MCEV principles.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Directors those matters we are required to state to them in an independent auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we will not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Alex Arterton have formed.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor UK 18 March 2014 As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement in respect of the MCEV supplementary information, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the MCEV supplementary information.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the MCEV supplementary information in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 130
