Independent auditors report To the Members of Partnership Assurance Group plc Opinion on financial statements of Partnership Going concern Assurance Group plc As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors In our opinion: statement on page 54 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's and of the Parent Company's affairs as at 31 December we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern 2013 and of the Group's profit for the year then ended: basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going the Parent Company financial statements have been properly concern.
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, Act 2006: and this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and Parent Company statements of financial position, the consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statements, the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 46.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 74 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Insurance liabilities We used our internal actuarial specialists to test the controls over the The Group predominantly writes non-standard annuities which it end-to-end reserving process, focusing on the controls over changes to prices using its bespoke mortality data and internally generated the reserving model and changes to the underlying demographic and intellectual property.
The Company reserves for the future economic assumptions.
expected cost of these policies using complex actuarial models to project the insurance liabilities.
These models are dependent on key We performed detailed substantive testing on the data inputs to the assumptions made by management in respect of the following: model including checks on policy data via agreeing a sample back to original policyholder documentation and checks that all assumptions had projected cash flows the expected payments on the portfolio been input to the model accurately.
based on assumptions as to the mortality of the policyholders Management has updated their mortality basis for the largest policy group based on their medical condition or lifestyle characteristic: and and a new valuation rate of interest model has been implemented during the valuation rate of interest based on the yield of the portfolio of the year.
We tested these assumptions, in addition to testing manual assets that back the liabilities that is used to discount the provisions, reinsurance reserves, allowance for counterparty default risk, allowance for cash flow and currency mis-matching risk and statutory expected cash flows, which also needs to reflect a deduction for capital requirements.
We used our internal actuarial specialists to challenge the credit risk of the underlying assets.
managements assumptions by considering the Groups own experience, Further detail on these principal assumptions can be found in comparison to industry benchmarks and by testing compliance with note 20 to the financial statements.
The significance and inherent subjectivity of these assumptions An assessment on the overall results was made by reviewing the analysis means that we view this as an area of heightened risk.
of change in reserves over the period under audit.
Equity release asset transactions We tested the new transactions through reviewing the due diligence The Groups investments include loans backed by a portfolio of work performed by the Group, challenging the valuation basis put forward equity release assets.
In Q3 2013 the Group completed a large bulk by management based on independent macroeconomic advice received, purchase deal for a value of 218m, with a further deal completed in and testing the underlying data used in the valuation of the equity Q4 2013 for a value of 69m.
release assets via agreement of a sample of loans back to original The fair value of the investment is dependent on the valuation of policy documentation.
the underlying properties and the assumptions used in the fair value We also assessed the underlying portfolio of assets for indicators of calculation, such as the property growth rate, property volatility, a impairment via segmenting the portfolio geographically and using revaluation index to revalue properties to the valuation date, swap applicable regional property valuation indices to check for signs of rates, and mortality assumptions.
Note 26b to the financial significant diminution in the value of the underlying properties on which statements provides further detail as to the methodology for the loans are secured, as well as analysing the age of the loan book.
calculating the fair value of these assets.
Our internal actuarial specialists challenged managements methodology The subjectivity of the key assumptions, coupled with the and assumptions used to value the equity release assets via comparison significance of the transactions, means that we view this as an to industry benchmarks, including whether the valuation was sensitive to area of risk.
Defined benefit scheme buy-in and buy-out transactions Our internal actuarial specialists have reviewed the controls over, and The Group is further diversifying its business through insuring managements testing of, the model and gained assurance that it is the risk on defined benefit schemes, focusing specifically on high operating effectively with a framework of supporting controls.
The assumptions underlying the model were challenged via comparison A new model was introduced during the period to calculate the to industry benchmarks and by testing compliance with regulations.
The lack of maturity around this model means that we view this as an area of risk.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on pages 50 to 52.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75 Independent auditors report To the Members of Partnership Assurance Group plc continued Our application of materiality Matters on which we are required to report by exception We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, work and in evaluating the results of our work.
in our opinion: We determined materiality for the Group to be 4.2m, which is below we have not received all the information and explanations we 1% of net written premiums.
We consider a turnover based measure to require for our audit: or be the most suitable benchmark at this stage in Partnership Assurance adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Group plc.
s development as it drives one of the Groups key Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received performance indicators and is a figure on which the users of the from branches not visited by us: or financial statements focus.
the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the the accounting records and returns.
Committee all audit differences in excess of 84,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting Directors remuneration on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
presentation of the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been An overview of the scope of our audit made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and nothing to report arising from these matters.
assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Corporate Governance Statement Our Group audit has covered entities representing 100% of the Groups net assets, 100% of the Groups revenue and 100% of the Groups Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of profit before tax.
The result of the Group is predominantly driven by a the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys single trading company, Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited.
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
All of the Group entities audited are based in the same location We have nothing to report arising from our review.
and were audited by the Group audit team and the Group engagement partner.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Further information on the Group and the recent restructure can be found in notes 13 and 32 to the Annual Report and Accounts.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or At the Parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit performing our audit: or or audit of specified account balances.
Opinion on other matters prescribed In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified by the Companies Act 2006 any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is In our opinion: fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
2006: and We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 76 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Alex Arterton Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 18 March 2014 Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77
