Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Financial statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Independent auditors report Opinion on financial statements of In our opinion: Provident Financial plc the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the group income statement, the group statement of comprehensive income, the group and company balance sheets, the group and company cash flow statements, the group and company statements of changes in shareholders equity, the statement of accounting policies, the financial and capital risk management section and the related notes 1 to 29.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement set out on page 107 that the group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: 193 Financial statements Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Independent auditors report continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Provision for impairment losses against loans We considered the appropriateness of the key assumptions used in the and receivables impairment calculations for loans and receivables, including specifically the estimation of future cash flows, and the identification of impaired accounts.
The assessment of the group's calculation of This involved analysis of the group's historical experience and challenging the provisions for impairment losses against loans and key assumptions in the context of internal and external factors affecting the receivables is complex and requires management business, including macro-economic trends.
Sensitivity analysis was also to make significant judgements regarding performed in relation to the key assumptions in order to assess the potential expectations of future cash flows arising from for management bias.
We also tested the principal operating controls relating customers.
The quantum of the provision is set out to the management of credit risk and the mechanical accuracy of the models in note 14 to the financial statements.
on which impairments are calculated.
Revenue recognition We challenged the assumptions used in the recognition of revenue using the effective interest rate method including the impact of early redemptions, and Revenue recognition and specifically the assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted were in application of the requirement in IAS 39 Financial compliance with IFRS.
We tested the mechanical accuracy of the models Instruments IAS 39 to recognise income on which are used to determine revenue and the controls around them, to assess loans using an effective interest rate method is a whether the data used was complete and accurate.
We considered the complex area, requiring management to make assumptions of future behavioural cash flows by reference to the groups significant judgements relating to the expected life historical experience and the macro-economy.
of each loan and the cash flows thereto related.
This is set out in the critical judgements and uncertainties section of the accounting policies note on page 145.
Retirement benefit asset We worked with an in-house actuarial expert to evaluate the appropriateness of the principal actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the retirement Determining the key assumptions used to benefit obligation, as set out in note 18.
The expert used market data detailing calculate the present value of the retirement the range of assumptions used as at 31 December 2013.
We also assessed the benefit obligation requires significant management calculation of the impact of the revisions to IAS 19 which became effective in judgement in relation to inflation rates, discount the year.
Provision for taxation liabilities Utilising the experience of our in-house taxation specialists, we evaluated the completeness of the assessment of the groups taxation liabilities, including the The group is required to exercise judgement in the appropriateness of the key assumptions relating to the likely quantum of any assessment of the key assumptions used to liabilities and the probability of them occurring.
We also reviewed determine the taxation liabilities, including the correspondence with tax authorities to determine whether the liabilities probability of liabilities arising and the quantum of are complete.
The audit committees consideration of these risks is set out on pages 94 to 95.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
194 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Financial statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 14.7 million, which is 7.5% of pre-tax profit.
Pre-tax profit has been normalised by adding back one-off restructuring costs.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 297,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the audit committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, our group audit scope focused on all of the principal trading subsidiaries within the groups three reportable segments which account for 100% of the groups profit before tax.
Two of the segments are audited directly by the group audit team and the other is audited by a separate component team, under the supervision of the group team.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work on the principal trading subsidiaries comprised statutory audits which were executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the In our opinion: Companies Act 2006 the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
195 Financial statements Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Independent auditors report continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in accounting records our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Our duty to read other information in the Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are annual report required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
196 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Financial statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of thswe Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Peter Birch FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Manchester, United Kingdom 25 February 2014 197
