Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit.
arrangements represent payments for the acquisition of client relationship intangibles which would be capitalised or payments in respect of providing ongoing services to Our opinion on the financial statements Rathbones which would be expensed.
In forming this is unmodified judgment, the group has determined that the appropriate accounting policy is to capitalise payments made to We have audited the financial statements of Rathbone investment managers relating to client relationships acquired Brothers Plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out during the 12 months period after the conclusion of any on pages 76 to 150. non-compete arrangements between an investment manager and their previous employer.
In our opinion: The groups assessment of whether the ongoing benefits the financial statements give a true and fair view of the offered by the capitalised client relationship intangibles state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs are greater than the carrying value or whether there is an as at 31 December 2013 and of the groups profit for the indication of impairment.
year then ended: The groups estimation of the useful economic life of the the group financial statements have been properly client relationships over which these intangible assets are prepared in accordance with International Financial subsequently amortised ranges typically between 10 and 15 Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: years using a straight line method.
The decisions made by the group in respect of the useful economic life may make the parent company financial statements have been a material difference to the financial statements and this is properly prepared in accordance with International considered to be a significant audit risk.
The sensitivity of this Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the estimate is disclosed in the critical accounting judgments European Union as applied in accordance with the and key sources of estimated uncertainty in note 2 to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and financial statements.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Our response: To assess whether the accounting policy referred Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial to above is appropriate we have used our industry knowledge statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and experience from similar businesses and also considered the criteria for the recognition of payments to secure an asset management contract as an asset in accordance with IAS 18 Our assessment of risks of material Revenue.
The key assumption relating to the recognition of misstatement client relationship intangibles is the length of time taken to acquire client relationships.
We have performed testing of a In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial sample of newly recognised client relationship intangibles to statements the risks of material misstatement that had the ensure such costs were only capitalised when they fell within greatest effect on our audit were as follows: 12 months of the conclusion of any non-compete arrangements and that such costs related to relationships already held by the Recognition and impairment of client relationships investment manager.
intangibles: 52,487,000 In considering the adequacy of the impairment assessment performed by the group to support the carrying Refer to page 66 audit committee report, page 85 valuations of client relationship intangibles, we have performed accounting policy and pages 87 and 102 to 103 testing which included an assessment of the population of financial disclosures.
capitalised client relationships to ensure that client relationship The risk: Individually purchased client relationships are intangibles relating to closed accounts and those clients with initially recognised at cost with those acquired as part of a balances that do not generate income for the group are no business combination initially recognised at fair value.
The longer recognised on the balance sheet.
classification of the individually purchased client relationships Our consideration of the appropriateness of the useful as intangible assets or an expense item and the recognition and economic life of the client relationships and amortisation period the impairment of the intangible assets in respect of customer included performing an analysis of the length of the client relationships are two of the key judgment areas our audit relationships held by the group with reference to the historic concentrated on.
gross outflows of funds under management.
We have also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosure in respect The primary areas of estimation arise in: of intangible assets in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
The groups assessment of whether payments made to newly recruited investment managers under contractual 72 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc only Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Recoverability of loan notes: 2,835,000 be significantly different to that recognised on the balance sheet since small changes to the assumptions used in the Refer to page 66 audit committee report, page 83 calculation materially affect the valuation and may result in to 85 accounting policy and pages 88, 96 and 136 the recognition of a deficit.
The risk: The parent company holds loan notes with a Our response: With the support of our own actuarial nominal value of 5,000,000 that were issued by the acquirer specialists, we challenged key assumptions and estimated of the groups Jersey trust business operations in 2008. inputs used in the calculation of the pensions surplus.
The key There is a risk in respect of the recoverability of the notes assumptions and estimates we tested included the discount since the loan notes are unsecured and repayment is rate, RPI inflation, salary growth, life expectancy and expected contingent on the occurrence of certain events, principally return on equities that were applied to the valuation.
This the refinancing of the operations disposed of.
The judgment included a comparison of key assumptions against externally as to the timing over the refinancing of the operations derived data and our benchmark ranges for similar schemes.
disposed of affects the recoverable cash flow and therefore We have also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosure the carrying value of the loan notes.
In order to determine in respect of the surplus and the assumptions used in note 26 the appropriate carrying value of the loan notes during to the consolidated financial statements.
the year, the group prepared a discounted cash flow model which considered various scenarios in terms of the timing Contingent liabilities: nil of repayment and the amount of repayment received and resulted in an impairment of 256,000 during the year.
Refer to pages 66 to 67 audit committee report, page 86 accounting policy and pages 88, 126 and 149 Our response: Our audit work on the appropriateness financial disclosures.
of the carrying value of these notes focused on testing the The risk: Note 32 refers to two related legal claims that are integrity of the discounted cash flow model prepared by ongoing.
The directors have determined that no provision the group as well as performing a critical assessment of should be raised in respect of these claims as at 31 December the appropriateness of the key assumptions inputs used in 2013 as they believe that it is more likely than not that any various scenarios in this model, where the main assumptions final judgment in relation to these claims will not result in a are the ability of the acquirer to make a payment in the liability against the group and, on this basis, have disclosed future and the timing and magnitude of any payments them as a contingent liability.
Due to the complexity of made.
Our audit work on the appropriateness of the key the two cases and the risks concerning the sufficiency of assumptions applied by the group when producing this the insurance cover, the assessment of whether a liability is model was performed with a reference to an inspection probable, possible or remote is considered to be inherently of correspondence between the group and the issuer of subjective and the amounts involved are potentially material.
the notes and an analysis of available information on the financial position and performance of the notes issuer.
Our response: In this area, our audit procedures included, We considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures see among others, holding discussions with the groups external note 15 in respect of the recoverability of the loan notes, legal advisers and examination of the correspondence and and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome documentation in respect of the case so as to understand the of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions current status and position of the case and to assess whether properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of the classification of this issue as a contingent liability is the loan notes.
We have also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosure provided in note 2 and note 32 to the Valuation of defined benefit pension surplus: 1,614,000 consolidated financial statements.
Refer to page 66 audit committee report, pages 86 to 87 accounting policy and pages 88 and 105 to 109 Our application of materiality and an financial disclosures.
overview of the scope of our audit The risk: The parent company has recognised a pension surplus of 1,614,000 as at 31 December 2013.
The valuation The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole of the defined benefit pension surplus deficit is an important was set at 2.3 million.
This has been determined with judgment as this balance is volatile and impacts the companys reference to a benchmark of group profit before taxation distributable reserves.
Management has obtained advice of which it represents 5% which we consider to be one of from actuarial specialists in order to calculate this surplus the principal considerations for members of the company in and uncertainty arises as a result of estimates made in respect assessing the financial performance of the group.
of long-term trends and market conditions to determine the We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all value based on the groups expectations of the future.
As a corrected and uncorrected income statement misstatements result, the actual surplus or deficit realised by the group may we identified through our audit with a value in excess of Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 73 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc only 115,000, in addition to other audit misstatements below Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on you if, in our opinion: qualitative grounds.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Audits for group reporting purposes were performed parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have at the key reporting components in the UK five entities not been received from branches not visited by us: or and Jersey one entity.
These audits covered 97.5% of total group revenue: 97.8% of group profit before taxation: and the parent company financial statements and the part of 98.6% of total group assets.
the directors remuneration report to be audited are not The group audit team performed the audits of the in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or key reporting components in accordance with the materiality certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by levels used for local audits, which ranged from 0.03 million law are not made: or to 2.2 million.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 48, in relation to In our opinion: going concern the part of the directors remuneration report to be the part of the corporate governance statement on audited has been properly prepared in accordance with page 49 relating to the companys compliance with the the Companies Act 2006 nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the information given in the strategic report and specified for our review.
directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the We have nothing to report in respect of the above financial statements responsibilities.
information given in the corporate governance statement Scope of report and responsibilities set out on pages 49 to 51 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities reporting processes and about share capital structures is statement set out on page 71, the directors are responsible consistent with the financial statements.
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided We have nothing to report in respect of on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
the matters on which we are required to org.
This report is made solely report by exception to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you responsibilities, published on our website at www.
if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into have identified other information in the annual report that this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
or that is otherwise misleading.
Richard Faulkner Senior Statutory Auditor In particular, we are required to report to you if: for and on behalf of KPMG we have identified material inconsistencies between Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual Chartered Accountants report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, London balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 19 February 2014 groups performance, business model and strategy: or the audit committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
74 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Consolidated financial statements 76 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 77 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 78 Consolidated balance sheet 79 Consolidated statement of cash flows 80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 75 Rathbone Brothers Plc Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Report and accounts 2013 75
