Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 137 Independent Auditors report to the members of Capita plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Capita plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 94 to 135 and 141 to 147.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: 2.1 Accounting for major contracts Refer to page 68 Audit Committee Report, and page 99 accounting policy notes 2 e and 2 f. The risk The majority of the Groups revenue is service revenue, sometimes derived from contracts which have separately identifiable components.
Some of these components may require long term contract accounting principles to be applied.
We consider accounting for major contracts a significant audit risk as a result of the following, all of which can affect the contract revenue and profit recognised: the quantum of revenue derived from these contracts: the judgement in interpreting some contract terms and conditions: the judgement involved in estimating the fulfilment of contract obligations: and the potential for disputes over contract assets and liabilities.
Revenue and profit from service contracts are recognised as the Group delivers the services.
Under long term contract accounting, the Group recognises revenue and profit by reference to the stage of completion, which is derived from the costs incurred to date and an estimate of the expected costs of completing the contract obligations, and this involves judgement.
As a result of applying contract accounting, the Group also recognises contract assets and liabilities as appropriate.
These include amounts earned and not yet billed, or amounts capitalised as direct incremental contract costs prior to service commencement.
There is a risk that these assets are not recoverable.
Where total contract costs are expected to exceed total contract revenues, the Group must also immediately recognise the full estimated contract loss through the income statement, and raise the appropriate contract liability.
Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, selecting contracts based on quantitative factors for example, those with the greatest impact on the Groups financial results, or with the largest contract assets recognised and qualitative factors for example, new contracts entered into during the financial year or where the payment profile may not reflect the timing of revenue recognition.
For each of those contracts: we tested controls over the monitoring of contract performance and costs.
Controls include the review of contracts performance by the Groups Executive Board of Directors through the monthly Management Operations Business reviews, where the divisional financial director and divisional managing director of each division presents details of performance and business developments to the Groups Executive Board Directors: we obtained, through interview of key contract finance and operational personnel, an understanding of the contract and corroborated this with reference to the contract terms: if the contract was new in the year, we evaluated, by reference to the relevant accounting standards and inspection of contract terms, the contract accounting applied by the Group: if the contract existed in prior financial years, but was subject to significant changes in the current financial year, we assessed whether the accounting treatment remained appropriate: we assessed whether the amounts recognised in the financial statements, particularly where the Group made estimates or applied judgement relating to contract assets and liabilities, represented a supported view of the contract position.
We assessed the estimates over these amounts with reference to relevant accounting standards and inspection of contract terms.
We analysed correspondence with customers and other parties, and considered whether this information was consistent with the judgements made by the Group.
2.2 Acquisition accounting total fair value to Group recognised on acquisition, 356.6million Refer to page 69 Audit Committee Report, page 101 accounting policy note 2 j and pages 114 to 116 financial disclosures in note 17.
The risk During the year the Group acquired businesses for a total consideration of 356.6million.
Under the requirements of the relevant accounting standards, the Group has assessed the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in these transactions.
Judgement is required over the fair value of these assets and liabilities acquired and an inappropriate judgement, error or omission in the calculation may lead to a misstatement in the balance of goodwill, which, unlike intangible assets acquired, is not amortised.
We consider these estimates to be significant audit risks because of the impact the acquisitions have on the financial statements, and the inherent judgement involved in estimating the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Additionally, if the Group adjusts fair values in subsequent periods, this can affect the income statement in those periods, and consequently acquisition accounting can impact earnings over the long term.
138 | Capita plc Independent Auditors report to the members of Capita plc only 2.2 Acquisition accounting total fair value to Group recognised on acquisition, 356.6million continued Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, considering a selection of acquisitions made during the year based on quantitative and qualitative factors.
The sample selected included those acquisitions with the greatest impact on the Groups financial results, and those containing the greatest degree of judgement.
For each of these acquisitions: we challenged the key assumptions and methodologies used by the Group to identify the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and determine their fair values.
We discussed these with the Group and corroborated the explanations provided by comparing these assumptions to market data, our past experience of similar transactions, and the Groups business plan supporting the acquisition: where available, we compared the amounts recognised to supporting external documentation or correspondence: we considered the appropriateness of the accounting for significant fair value adjustments in subsequent periods with reference to the acquisition accounting standard, and considered the presentation and disclosure of material adjustments in the financial statements: and we have considered the adequacy of the disclosure of acquisitions in the accounts.
2.3 Carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill 2,330.7million Refer to page 69 Audit Committee Report, page 101 accounting policy note 2 k and pages 112 to 113 financial disclosures in note 14 and 15.
The risk The individual assets included in intangible assets and goodwill would be impaired where their recoverable amount has fallen below their carrying value.
We consider the impairment of intangible assets and goodwill to be a significant audit risk because of the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of the assessment of recoverability.
Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, obtaining the Groups discounted cash flow model that tests the carrying value of the relevant CGUs including associated intangible assets and goodwill, and we: compared the total amount of discounted cash flows as per the Groups calculations to the Group's market capitalisation.
tested the integrity of the Group's discounted cash flow model: assessed the appropriateness of any changes in the composition of cash generating units with reference to our understanding of the business: evaluated the cash flows used in the model compared to the output of the Group's budgeting process and against the understanding we obtained about the business areas through our audit, and determined if these cash flows were reasonable: used external data and our own assessments using our own internal valuation specialists to evaluate the key inputs and assumptions for growth and discount rates: performed sensitivity and break-even analysis for these key inputs and assumptions, and identified those cash generating units we consider most sensitive to impairment: and assessed the Group's disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of their assessment to ensure that these disclosures reflected the risks identified.
In particular, for the Groups Insurance and Benefits Services cash generating unit, we have considered the disclosure provided.
2.4 Treatment of disposal and planned closure of businesses loss on disposal, 82.1million: operating loss, 64.6million Refer to page 69 Audit Committee Report, pages 98 and 102 accounting policy note 2 c and 2 q and page 105 financial disclosures in note 4.
The risk In the year, the Group disposed of its Insurance distribution businesses and announced the planned closure of its Self Invested Pensions administration business hereafter, the events.
The Group has elected to present the loss of 82.1million arising from these events and the operating loss of 64.6million from these businesses in a separate non-underlying business disposal closure column on the face of the income statement.
We consider the treatment in the financial statements of these events a significant audit risk because of the judgement required in calculating some of the amounts included in the loss on disposal.
Accurate and complete identification of the assets disposed of or written down, and recognising related liabilities triggered by the events, is necessary.
The impact of excluding current year trading losses from underlying results requires that only those trading operating losses directly relating to these businesses should be separately presented in the non-underlying business disposal closure column so as not to distort the view of the Groups underlying performance when adjusted for trading operating losses relating to these businesses.
Our response We selected amounts presented in the non-underlying business disposal closure column based on quantitative and qualitative factors such as provisions made in respect of disposal and closure costs, and assets and liabilities disposed of or written down, and the operating losses from these businesses.
For the items selected, we performed the following procedures, among others: assessed whether costs and losses provided for have been recognised in accordance with accounting standards by challenging the basis for recognising these costs and losses: assessed whether assets written down specifically relate to the disposed of and closing businesses and cannot be redeployed: assessed whether items are categorised appropriately across trading and non-trading: and considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in respect of the events.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 139 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 15.0million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
Materiality represents 7.0% of Group profit before tax and 5.0% of Group profit before tax adjusted for the loss on business disposal closure as presented on the face of the income statement.
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all individual uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a profit impact in excess of 0.75million and a balance sheet impact in excess of 11.3million, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component auditors at two key reporting components in the United Kingdom and Guernsey and by the Group audit team at 22 key components in the United Kingdom.
These Group procedures covered approximately 80% of total Group revenue: 85% of Group profit before taxation: and 96% of total Group assets.
The audits were performed to the local materiality levels set individually for each component and agreed with the group team, unless this exceeded materiality for the group financial statements as a whole, in which case the materiality level was set at 95% of materiality for the group financial statements as a whole.
As such, materiality for these audits ranged from 0.3million to 14.25million.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to the component auditors.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors at all locations.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 74, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 63 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 77, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Sean McCallion Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 26 February 2014
