Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Report on the financial statements What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with Our opinion International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland In our opinion: ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the the financial statements, defined below, give a financial statements sufficient to give reasonable true and fair view of the state of the Groups and assurance that the financial statements are free from of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 2013 and of the Groups profit and of the Groups error.
This includes an assessment of: and Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Parent Companys circumstances the Group financial statements have been properly and have been consistently applied and adequately prepared in accordance with International Financial disclosed: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs the overall presentation of the financial as adopted by the European Union and as applied statements.
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Report & Accounts the Annual the financial statements have been prepared in Report to identify material inconsistencies with the accordance with the requirements of the audited financial statements and to identify any Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group information that is apparently materially incorrect financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Regulation.
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent This opinion is to be read in the context of what we material misstatements or inconsistencies we say in the remainder of this report.
consider the implications for our report.
What we have audited Overview of our audit approach The Group financial statements and Parent Company Materiality financial statements the financial statements, We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These which are prepared by RIT Capital Partners plc, helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent comprise: of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial the Consolidated and Parent Company balance statements as a whole.
sheets as at 31 December 2013: Based on our professional judgement, we determined the Consolidated income statement and materiality for the Group financial statements as a Consolidated statement of comprehensive income whole to be 36.8 million.
In determining our for the year then ended: materiality, we have considered financial metrics the Consolidated and Parent Company statements which we believe to be relevant and concluded that of changes in equity and cash flow statements for net assets was the relevant benchmark.
the year then ended: and We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that the Group and Parent Company Accounting we would report to them misstatements identified Policies and the notes to the financial statements during our audit above 1.8 million as well as which include other explanatory information.
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law Overview of the scope of our audit and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as The Group is structured as an investment company, regards the Parent Company, as applied in accordance managing a widely diversified portfolio.
The Group with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. financial statements are a consolidation of seventeen 102 Report and Accounts December 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc subsidiaries including J Rothschild Capital Area of focus How the scope of our audit Management Limited the Manager and the Parent addressed the area of focus Company.
Valuation of direct We understood and private investments evaluated the methodology In establishing the overall approach to the Group We focused on this applied, and tested the audit, we determined the type of work that needed to area because direct techniques used, by the be performed by us as the group engagement team private investments Manager in determining the and as subsidiary auditors, to be able to conclude represent a material fair value of direct private whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had balance in the investments.
This included been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements comparing valuations based financial statements as a whole.
and the valuation of on recent transactions and We audited the financial information of nine these direct private using models that applied subsidiaries and the Parent Company and this, investments comparable company together with the procedures we performed at the requires estimates earnings multiples and Group level, including procedures over the and significant investee company unaudited consolidation, gave us the evidence we needed as a judgements to be management accounts basis for our opinion on the Group financial applied by the and or forecasts which are statements as a whole.
We audited these nine Manager.
We also read subsidiaries and the Parent Company as they require the Valuation Committee an audit under UK regulations.
The remaining papers and meeting minutes subsidiaries do not require an audit.
and, together with the work outlined above, discussed Areas of particular audit focus the valuations with the In preparing the financial statements, the Directors Manager and the Directors to made a number of subjective judgements, for challenge the example in respect of significant accounting appropriateness of the estimates that involved making assumptions and methodology and key inputs considering future events that are inherently used, and the valuations uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these themselves, with reference areas by assessing the Directors judgements against to the International Private available evidence, forming our own judgements, and Equity and Venture Capital evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Valuation guidelines and our knowledge of the investee In our audit, we tested and examined information, entities.
using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a We assessed the accounting Fraud in income reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We policy for income recognition recognition obtained audit evidence through testing the for compliance with ISAs UK & Ireland effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a accounting standards and presume there is a combination of both.
risk of fraud in performed testing to evaluate income recognition that income had been We considered the following areas to be those that because of the accounted for in accordance required particular focus in the current year.
This is pressure with this stated accounting not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus management may policy.
We discussed these areas of feel to achieve the We tested the allocation and focus with the Audit and Risk Committee.
presentation of dividend report on those matters that they considered to be We focused on the income between the income significant issues in relation to the financial accuracy and and capital return columns of statements is set out on pages 30 and 31. completeness of the consolidated income dividend income statement in line with the recognition and its requirements set out in the presentation in the AIC SORP.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 103 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc income statement The gains losses on portfolio Going Concern as set out in the investments held at fair value Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the requirements of The comprise realised and Directors statement, set out on page 29, in relation Association of unrealised gains losses.
We have nothing to report having Investment unrealised gains losses, we performed our review.
Companies tested the valuation process, As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors Statement of as set out on the previous have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Recommended page, to ascertain whether Groups and Parent Companys financial statements Practice the AIC these gains losses were using the going concern basis of accounting.
For going concern basis presumes that the Group and focused on realised gains losses, we Parent Company have adequate resources to remain gains losses on tested disposal proceeds to in operation, and that the directors intend them to do portfolio bank statements and sale so, for at least one year from the date the financial investments held at agreements and restatements were signed.
As part of our audit we have fair value due to the performed the calculation of concluded that the Directors use of the going subjective nature of a sample of realised concern basis is appropriate.
the valuation of gains losses.
unquoted However, because not all future events or conditions investments.
can be predicted, these statements are not a Risk of management We assessed the overall guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent override of internal control environment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
controls Group, including the Opinions on matters prescribed by the ISAs UK & Ireland arrangements for staff to Companies Act 2006 require that we whistle-blow inappropriate consider actions, and interviewed In our opinion: management senior management and the the information given in the Strategic Report and override of controls.
Groups internal audit the Directors Report for the financial year for function.
We examined the which the financial statements are prepared is significant accounting consistent with the financial statements: and estimates and judgements particularly in relation to the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to valuation of unquoted be audited has been properly prepared in investments for evidence of accordance with the Companies Act 2006. bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material Other matters on which we are required misstatement due to fraud.
to report by exception We tested journal entries to Adequacy of accounting records and information determine whether and explanations received adjustments were Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to appropriately authorised and report to you if, in our opinion: documented.
We built an element of we have not received all the information and unpredictability into our explanations we require for our audit: or audit by testing items which adequate accounting records have not been kept would have ordinarily been by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for out of the scope of our work.
our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
104 Report and Accounts December 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Directors remuneration Responsibilities for the financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to statements and the audit report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Our responsibilities and those of the Directors directors remuneration specified by law have not As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors been made.
We have no exceptions to report arising Responsibilities set out on page 28, the directors are from this responsibility.
responsible for the preparation of the Group and Parent Company financial statements and for being Corporate Governance Statement satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion to the Parent Companys compliance with nine on the Group and Parent Company financial provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code statements in accordance with applicable law and the Code.
We have nothing to report having ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to performed our review.
comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
On page 28 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they This report, including the opinions, has been prepared consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be for and only for the Companys members as a body in fair, balanced and understandable and provides the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the information necessary for members to assess the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do Groups performance, business model and strategy.
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume On pages 30 and 31 as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, responsibility for any other purpose or to any other the Audit and Risk Committee has set out the person to whom this report is shown or into whose significant issues that it considered in relation to the hands it may come save where expressly agreed by financial statements, and how they were addressed.
our prior consent in writing.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Alison Morris Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP the section of the Annual Report describing the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not London appropriately address matters communicated by 5 March 2014 us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 105 Other Information 31 December 2013
