Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RIVERSTONE ENERGY LIMITED We have audited the Companys Financial Statements for Opinion on Financial Statements the period ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Statement of Financial Position, the Statement of In our opinion the Financial Statements: Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Changes in give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys Equity, the Statement of Cash Flows and related Notes 1 affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its profit for to 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been the period then ended: applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs have been properly prepared in accordance with as adopted by the EU.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, have been prepared in accordance with the as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the requirements of the Companies Law.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Our Assessment of Risks of Material report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Misstatement to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, We identified the following risk that has had the greatest or for the opinions we have formed.
effect on the overall audit strategy and scope: the Company may not identify, record and disclose Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor related party transactions in the Financial Statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 18, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for Our Application of Materiality being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law materiality for the Company to be $22.8 million, which and International Standards on Auditing UK and is approximately 2 per cent.
Those standards require us to comply with the a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, Statements our judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts account or balance for the group should be 50 per cent.
and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to of materiality, namely $11.4 million.
Our objective in give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected are free from material misstatement, whether caused by and undetected audit differences in the financial fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of whether statements did not exceed our materiality level.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and We have reported to the Audit Committee all audit adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant differences in excess of $1.1 million, as well as differences accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report..
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RIVERSTONE ENERGY LIMITED CONTINUED Under the Companies Law we are required to report to An Overview of the Scope of you if, in our opinion: our Audit proper accounting records have not been kept: or We have audited the balances of the Financial Statements the Financial Statements are not in agreement with using our materiality.
The way in which we scoped our the accounting records: or response to the risk identified above was as follows: we have not received all the information and We obtained the related party register, and reviewed explanations we require for our audit.
all identified related party transactions that took place Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: during the period.
We then cross checked these to the structure chart and the definitions within IFRS the Directors Responsibilities Statement, set out on and the Listing Rules.
We reviewed the management page 18, in relation to going concern: and fee calculation in the underlying limited partnership the part of the Corporate Governance Report in conjunction with the tri-party investment relating to the companys compliance with the nine management agreement.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Matters on Which we are Required to Report by Exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Michael Bane Directors report is: For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP 13 February 2014 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors Responsibilities Statement that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
1 The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
