RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 95 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RSA INSURANCE GROUP PLC ONLY OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 1.
Our opinion on the Group financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of RSA Insurance Group plc RSA for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 99 to 172.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Group financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our Group audit were as follows: Insurance liabilities provision for losses and loss adjustment expenses 11,148 million Refer to page 66 Group Audit Committee Report, page 108 accounting policy and pages 147 to 150 financial disclosures.
The risk: The Group has significant insurance liabilities representing 59% of total liabilities.
The valuation of insurance liabilities is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on due to the level of subjectivity inherent in estimating the impact of claims events that have occurred but for which the eventual outcome remains uncertain.
Particular judgement arises over the estimation of the value of amounts that should be provided for claims that have been incurred at the reporting date but have not yet been reported to the Group.
Our response: We were assisted by our own actuarial specialists to understand and challenge the Groups reserving practices throughout our audit procedures in this area.
Our audit procedures included, among others, evaluating and testing the key controls around the reserving process, including controls over the completeness and accuracy of the data that support key reserving calculations and controls over the valuation of individual claims reserves, such as large loss review controls and internal peer reviews whereby second reviewers examine documentation supporting claims case reserves and consider if the amount recorded in the financial statements is valued appropriately.
In certain locations we have carried out our own reprojections of insurance liabilities for certain classes of business in order to assess the reasonableness of estimates made by management.
We evaluated the governance around the overall reserving process including scrutiny applied by local, regional and Group reserving committees and Group level actuarial reviews as described on page 116 through evaluating whether those responsible had appropriate qualifications and experience, examining the output to assess the scope and depth of these processes and effectively reperforming this review for the most significant and subjective insurance liabilities and the key assumptions applied.
We assessed key reserving assumptions including loss ratios, frequency and severity of claims, and where appropriate, discount rates for longer tail classes of business by territory and line of business, and over time, comparing them to expectations based on the Groups historical experience, current trends and our own industry knowledge.
We evaluated whether appropriate prudence had been applied in this context and whether reserving was consistent in approach, with sufficient justification for changes in assumptions.
We used our industry knowledge to benchmark the Groups reserving methodologies and estimates of losses.
Our audit focused particularly on lines of business with the most inherent uncertainty.
These include the longer-tailed risks such as Asbestos and Deafness classes, the Danish Workers Compensation class, the Swedish Personal Accident classes, the Canadian General Liability class and classes of business affected by emerging industry issues such as the impact of Periodic Payment Orders on UK motor business.
In view of the issues identified in the Irish business, we have performed our own independent reprojections of the insurance liabilities in that business in order to conclude on the reasonableness of the estimates made by management.
We assessed whether the Groups disclosure in relation to insurance liabilities, including the discount rate and historic claims development, were appropriate.
Management override of controls Refer to page 67 Group Audit Committee Report.
The risk: During the year financial and claims irregularities were identified in the Groups Irish business.
These irregularities involved inappropriate collaboration amongst a small number of senior executives which undermined control effectiveness in some instances.
We therefore consider there to be a heightened risk to our audit across the Group due to the potential for local management to override financial reporting controls.
96 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RSA INSURANCE GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED The response: In addition to extending the scope and extent of our own detailed audit procedures in Ireland, in all the other locations in which the Group operates, we extended procedures around the judgemental areas of the balance sheet which were inappropriately accounted for in Ireland.
These included claims reserves, inappropriate deferral of costs, acceleration of income recognition and under-provision of insurance liabilities across a number of financial statement captions.
We increased the nature and extent of our procedures over claims reserves, for example through selecting larger samples of claims to test.
The Groups Internal Audit function has performed additional procedures over claims reserves across the business, including testing the effectiveness of controls over large loss case reserving.
We evaluated the quality of Internal Audits work and where appropriate we have reperformed some of the testing in order to be able to rely on Internal Audits findings.
In response to this risk, and in agreement with the Board, we have extended our audit procedures and performed additional detailed testing of certain transactions and balances, with particular emphasis given to income recognition and cost deferral.
This testing was carried out to significantly lower levels of materiality akin to that applied in the local statutory audits of the entities.
Our procedures included vouching system data to supporting documentation from other sources, recalculating the recognition of earned premiums and amortisation of deferred acquisition costs, testing whether deferred costs met relevant criteria for example, because they relate to the acquisition of insurance policies and more detailed testing of manual journals through examining a larger number of journals and obtaining evidence to support amounts and rationale for posting.
Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,103 million Refer to page 66 Group Audit Committee Report, page 106 accounting policy and pages 135 to 137 financial disclosures.
The risk: The valuation of intangible assets and goodwill on acquisitions is complex and typically requires a high level of judgement, particularly in countries where there is increased uncertainty over the economic prospects, growth rates or future business prospects for example in Argentina and Poland.
The accounting irregularities identified in the Irish business have further increased the uncertainty related to the performance of this business going forward.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and the most significant judgements arise over the forecast cashflows and the discount rates applied in calculating the value in use, which is then compared to the carrying value of the business to assess if the goodwill is impaired.
In addition, the Group holds a significant amount of capitalised software intangible assets, the majority of which are in the UK and Scandinavian businesses.
Judgement arises over whether the software is generating sufficient economic benefits to support its value, the period benefits will be realised over, and the amount of any impairments that are recognised.
Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, among others, challenging the cashflow forecasts and corresponding assumptions, and the useful economic lives of intangible assets based on our understanding of the relevant business and the industry and economic environment in which it operates.
We compared forecasts to business plans and also previous forecasts to actual results to assess the performance of the business and the accuracy of forecasting.
We compared the Groups assumptions to externally derived data as well as our own assessments in relation to key inputs such as projected economic growth, forecast profit margins, cost inflation and discount rates and applied sensitivities in evaluating the Groups assessment.
Our own valuation specialists have assisted us in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used by the Group, in particular those relating to the discount rate and growth rates and in evaluating these assumptions with reference to valuations of similar companies.
Our focus has been on goodwill in businesses that are most sensitive to the assumptions underlying the valuations, in particular Ireland, where the recent accounting irregularities mean that there is increased uncertainty over future profitability.
We have also focused our procedures on the basis for impairments that have been recognised in respect of the Groups businesses in Argentina and Poland.
We assessed whether the impairments of goodwill were sufficient and supported by the valuations of the business.
Based on our understanding of the business and its operations, we have assessed whether there were any indications that capitalised software intangible assets may be impaired.
Where impairment indicators were identified, we examined the assumptions behind the expected future benefits to be derived from using the related software, considering both the value of the benefits and the extent to which they are derived from the use of the software.
In assessing this, we compared the assumptions to our understanding of the business and relevant economic and industry factors.
We evaluated whether sufficient future benefits are expected from the software and systems to support the current carrying value and to assess whether impairments recognised were appropriate.
We have also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of goodwill and other intangible assets, and in particular the disclosure of sensitivity to key assumptions see note 8.
Deferred tax assets 302 million Refer to page 67 Group Audit Committee Report, page 109 accounting policy and pages 151 to 153 financial disclosures.
The risk: Significant judgement is required over the recoverability of deferred tax assets because the realisation of tax benefits is often dependent on future taxable profits and there are inherent uncertainties involved in forecasting, which is the basis of the assessment of recoverability.
The deferred tax asset in the UK is particularly subjective given its sensitivity to expectations about the profitability of the UK business.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 97 The response: In this area our audit procedures included, among others, challenging the key assumptions underlying the taxable profit projections prepared by the directors to support the Groups assessment of its ability to recover deferred tax assets.
The key assumptions are the growth rates and profit margins which drive the emergence of future profit projections, particularly in the UK business to which the largest element of the deferred tax asset relates.
Our audit procedures over the future projections included comparing the expected growth rates to business forecasts, assessing the accuracy of that forecasting process in the past, and considering whether projected margins are achievable with reference to the businesss recent performance and plans and our own industry knowledge.
Our own tax specialists were involved in considering the extent to which projected profits were taxable.
We have also evaluated the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of taxes, and in particular the disclosures around the assumptions supporting the deferred tax asset valuation and recognition.
Pensions and post-retirement obligations net pension deficit of 125 million Refer to page 66 Group Audit Committee Report, page 110 accounting policy and pages 154 to 159 financial disclosures.
The risk: Significant estimates are made in valuing the Groups post-retirement defined benefit schemes and small changes in assumptions and estimates used to value the Groups net pension deficit would have a significant effect on the financial position of the Group.
Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, among others, testing of the controls over the maintenance of each schemes membership data as well as sample testing from those data to the source documentation establishing the obligation to members, and vice versa.
With the support of our own pension actuarial specialists, we then challenged the key assumptions applied to this data to determine the Groups net deficit, being the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality life expectancy.
This included a comparison of these key assumptions against externally derived data.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficits to these assumptions.
IT systems and controls Refer to page 67 Group Audit Committee Report.
The risk: Many financial reporting controls depend on the correct functioning of related elements of the operational and financial IT systems, for example interfaces between policy administration and financial reporting systems or automated controls which are designed to prevent inaccurate or incomplete transfers of financial information.
This is an area of significant risk in our audit due to the complexity of the IT infrastructure, particularly in the UK, where there are legacy systems which require increased manual inputs.
Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, among others, testing general IT controls around system access and change management and testing controls over computer operations within specific applications which are required to be operating correctly to mitigate the risk of misstatement in the financial statements.
With the support of our own IT specialists, we tested these controls through examining whether changes made to the systems were appropriately approved, and assessing whether appropriate restrictions were placed on access to core systems through testing the permissions and responsibilities of those given that access.
Where IT controls were not operating effectively and we were therefore unable to rely on certain automated IT controls, we considered whether financial information was impacted and extended the scope of our work by performing additional audit procedures in a limited number of areas.
In the areas where we performed additional procedures we were able to place reliance on manual compensating controls, such as reconciliations between systems and other information sources, or perform additional testing, such as extending the size of our sample sizes, to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence over the financial statement balances that were impacted.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 50m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of gross written premiums of which it represents 0.5%, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 2.5m, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed by component auditors at five key reporting components being: Scandinavia: Canada: UK and Western Europe: Emerging Markets and the Group Corporate Centre.
Each of these key reporting components includes a number of individual locations.
In total, we performed audits for group reporting purposes in 11 different locations.
In addition, specified audit procedures were performed by component auditors in nine further locations.
These group procedures covered 93% of gross written premiums, 95% of profits and losses before taxes, 98% of insurance liabilities and 93% of total assets.
The segment disclosures in note 1 set out the individual significance of a specific segment.
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the Group were all performed to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the Group audit team.
These component materiality levels were set for each component.
Within each component the materiality levels applied ranged from between 10m to 40m.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these locations.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited the following locations: UK, Canada, Sweden, Denmark, Ireland, Chile, Argentina, Brazil and the UAE.
Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors at these locations and for other locations that were not physically visited during the audit.
98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RSA INSURANCE GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED In addition to the audits undertaken for group reporting purposes, as described in our procedures above in response to management override of controls, we have extended our audit procedures in response to the issues identified in the Groups Irish business.
This supplementary testing was undertaken in all the locations in which the Group operates and performed to levels of materiality akin to that applied in the local statutory audits of the entities concerned.
OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors and Corporate Governance Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF THE MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Group Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 55, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 45 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 94, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Stuart Crisp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants London 26 February 2014
