Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the financial statements, defined below: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2013 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
What we have audited The financial statements, which are prepared by Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc the Company, comprise: the balance sheet as at 30 September 2013: the income statement for the year then ended: the cash flow statement and the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Report and Accounts the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined an overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole of 4.5 million which is approximately 1% of Net Assets.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Company managed by an independent investment manager, Schroder Investment Management Limited the Investment Manager.
The financial statements, which remain the responsibility of the Directors, are prepared on their behalf by the Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager has, with the consent of the Directors, delegated the provision of certain administrative functions to HSBC Securities Services UK Limited the Company Administrator.
In establishing the overall approach to our audit we assessed the risk of material misstatement, taking into account the nature, likelihood and potential magnitude of any misstatement.
As part of our risk assessment, we considered the Companys interaction with the Investment Manager and Company Administrator, and we assessed the control environment in place at both entities, to the extent relevant to our audit of the Company.
Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements.
26 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Areas of particular audit focus In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 22.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation and existence of investments The investment portfolio comprises listed equity investments.
We focused on this area because investments represent We tested the valuation of the investment portfolio by the principal element of the financial statements agreeing the valuation of investments to independent third party sources.
We tested the existence of the investment portfolio by agreeing the holdings to an independent custodian confirmation.
Risk of management override of internal controls We tested a sample of journal entries to determine whether adjustments were supported by evidence and appropriately ISAs UK & Ireland require we consider management authorised.
We built an element of unpredictability into our detailed testing by testing immaterial expense items.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 16, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Company has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 21 to 25 in the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
27 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 16 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
On page 22, as required by C3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other information in the Report and Accounts Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on pages 15 and 16, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Richard McGuire Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 13 December 2013 Notes: The maintenance and integrity of the Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
