Financial report Financial report Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc Report on the financial statements What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Our opinion Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
In our opinion: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and The financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
of the Groups and Parent Companys cash flows for the year This includes an assessment of: then ended: Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the The Group financial statements have been properly prepared Groups and Parent Companys circumstances and have in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates The Parent Company financial statements have been properly made by the Directors: and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the The overall presentation of the financial statements.
European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards audited financial statements and to identify any information that is the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements remainder of this report.
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
What we have audited Overview of our audit approach The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial Materiality statements the financial statements, which are prepared by We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to Schroders plc, comprise: determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures The consolidated and Schroders plc statements of financial and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and position as at 31 December 2013: on the financial statements as a whole.
The consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality The consolidated and Schroders plc statements of changes in for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 22 million.
equity and statements of cash flows for the year then ended: and In arriving at this judgement we had regard to financial metrics The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary that we believe to be relevant, and concluded that 5 per cent.
of of significant accounting policies and other explanatory the Groups profit before tax was the most relevant benchmark.
We reported to the Audit and Risk Committee misstatements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their identified during our audit above 1 million as well as misstatements preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for European Union and, as regards the Parent Company, as applied qualitative reasons.
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts Annual Report rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 155 Financial report Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc continued Overview of the scope of our audit Areas of particular audit focus The Group has three business segments, Asset Management, In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made Wealth Management and Group, consisting of over 170 legal a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect entities operating in 27 geographical locations.
We audited the of significant accounting estimates that involved making complete financial information of 16 entities, due to their size, assumptions and considering future events that are inherently significance and or risk characteristics.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by represent 97 per cent.
of Group revenue, 84 per cent.
of Group assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, profit before tax, 89 per cent.
of Group total assets and 75 per forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures cent.
In establishing the overall approach to the audit of the Group, we In our audit, we tested and examined information, using considered our assessment of the risk of material misstatement sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we within each entity.
We determined the work that needed to be considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for performed by us, as the group engagement team, or by local us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through teams within PwC UK or from other PwC network firms.
Where testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures the work was performed by local audit teams, we determined the or a combination of both.
level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work for those entities to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate We considered the following areas to be those that required audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list on the Group financial statements as a whole.
of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit and Risk Committee.
Their The above audit procedures, together with the procedures report on those matters that they considered to be significant we have performed at Group level and on the Parent Company, issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 59. provided us with sufficient audit evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Area of focus particular to Schroders plc How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Acquisition accounting During the year, two acquisitions were undertaken, Cazenove Capital We tested the consideration paid and the valuation of the identified net assets acquired.
Holdings Limited and STW Fixed Income Management LLC.
The accounting for these acquisitions is complex.
The audit focus included We tested and challenged the valuation models prepared by the Group for the separately the valuation of the intangible assets acquired, which is inherently identified intangible assets by: subjective in nature.
Comparing the key assumptions for example discount rate and longevity of acquired client relationships against available market data: and, The Group has recognised 242 million Goodwill and 112 million Testing key data inputs to source records for example assets under management and acquired intangibles during the year.
Refer also to note 28 to the financial statements.
We also performed sensitivity analysis to determine the impact of changes in the key assumptions, both individually and in aggregate.
We considered the appropriateness of the separate presentation in the Group income statement of the gains and expenses relating to the acquisitions during the year.
Provisions and contingent liabilities The Group is exposed to actual and potential legal claims and also We inquired of senior Group management and the Groups in-house legal team regarding matters arising as a result of changes in regulation and legislation other potential exposures for the Group.
We also obtained confirmation from the Groups in certain countries.
external legal advisors and considered their written responses on known or potential claims.
During the period, the Group established a new provision for a possible We tested the US Department of Justice provision by: penalty payable in connection with the US Department of Justice Testing the Groups extraction of client data and investment balances held for those programme to identify US-related accounts with Swiss banks.
The identified as US-related accounts: estimate of this provision is subjective and part of a process that is not Testing the stratification of the population, the estimation of a possible penalty, and expected to complete until after June 2014.
The provision is therefore reperforming the calculation of the provision: and uncertain and it requires assumptions to be made about the tax status Assessing the financial sensitivity of the provision to the underlying assumptions made by of relevant clients of the Groups Swiss bank.
the Directors and evaluating the level of uncertainty at this stage of the process.
The Group has provided 15 million at 31 December 2013, which was We also considered the appropriateness of the separate presentation and disclosure in the recognised as an exceptional expense.
Group income statement of the provision expense and any reversals relating to the legal and regulatory uncertainties during the year.
Refer also to note 19 to the financial statements.
156 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial report Area of focus identified by auditing standards How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of management override of internal controls According to ISAs UK & Ireland, there is a non-rebuttable presumption We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for that management may override controls within their organisation, giving staff to whistleblow in respect of inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management rise to a risk of misstatement due to fraud.
and the Groups internal audit function.
We tested key reconciliations and manual journal entries.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors.
We also built in an element of unpredictability to our testing.
Fraud in revenue recognition ISAs UK & Ireland also presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue We tested the timing of the recognition of more complex and judgemental revenue, including recognition because of the pressure management may feel to achieve performance fees, manually calculated revenues, Wealth Management commissions and the planned results.
There is an inherent risk that revenue might be revenues from pooled and structured products.
Going concern Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Companies Act 2006 going concern statement, set out on page 82.
We have nothing In our opinion: to report having performed our review.
The information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and The part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been Parent Companys financial statements using the going concern properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain Other matters on which we are required to report in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at by exception least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
Adequacy of accounting records and information As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use and explanations received of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: However, because not all future events or conditions can be We have not received all the information and explanations we predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups require for our audit: or and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 157 Financial report Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc continued Directors remuneration Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Our responsibilities and those of the directors if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors specified by law have not been made, and under the Listing Responsibilities set out on page 83, the Directors are responsible Rules we are required to review certain elements of the report to for the preparation of the Group and Parent Company financial shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
We have statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group Corporate governance statement and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate for Auditors.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance On page 83 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person and provides the information necessary for members to assess to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
59, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit and Risk Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report for and on behalf of  LLP to you if, in our opinion: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors The statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent London with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 5 March 2014 performing our audit: or The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address Notes: matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
a The maintenance and integrity of the Schroders plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Other information in the Annual Report b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Is otherwise misleading.
158 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
