Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC the Company We have audited the financial statements of Scottish Mortgage Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 31 March 2013 set out Companies Act 2006 on pages 32 to 50.
The financial reporting framework that has In our opinion: been applied in their preparation is applicable law and UK the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting has been properly prepared in accordance with the Practice.
Companies Act 2006: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, the information given in the Directors Report for the financial in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act year for which the financial statements are prepared is 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might consistent with the financial statements.
state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Matters on which we are required to report by To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or exception assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you report, or for the opinions we have formed.
if, in our opinion: Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities adequate for our audit have not been received from branches Statement set out on page 30, the Directors are responsible for not visited by us: or the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied the financial statements and the part of the Directors that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance the accounting records and returns: or with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements require for our audit.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: www.
the Directors statement, set out on page 25, in relation to going concern: Opinion on Financial Statements In our opinion the financial statements: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and as at 31 March 2013 and of its net return for the year then ended: certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Catherine Burnet Senior Statutory Auditor the Companies Act 2006. for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 20 Saltire Court Edinburgh EH1 2EG 10 May 2013 Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 31
