70 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Carillion plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Our response We evaluated the controls designed and implemented by 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified the Group to provide assurance that the estimates used in assessing the We have audited the financial statements of Carillion plc for the year ended final out-turn of costs on each contract are appropriate.
We then selected 31 December 2013 which comprise the Group Consolidated Income a sample of contracts using a variety of quantitative and qualitative factors Statement, the Group Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, to ensure that we assess and challenge the most significant and more the Group Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group complex contract positions.
In this area our audit procedures included, Consolidated changes in Equity, the Group Consolidated Cash Flow among others: Statement and the related notes.
In our opinion: considering the financial performance of contracts against budget the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the and historical trends and assessing the accuracy of the amounts Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 recognised in the financial statements: and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: obtaining detailed position papers from the Group to support the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in estimates made, challenging these estimates with senior operational, accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as commercial and financial management and assessing whether or not adopted by the European Union EU-IFRS : these estimates showed any evidence of management bias: the parent company financial statements have been properly assessing the recoverability of contract balances by way of prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and agreement to third party certifications and confirmations, and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the comparing against the underlying books and records: requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group completing a number of site visits across the UK, Middle East and financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Canada, meeting local management and overseas auditors, physically inspecting the stage of completion of individual projects 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and identifying areas of complexity through observation and In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks discussion with site personnel: of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as challenging the Groups judgement in respect of forecast contract follows: out-turn, quantum and allocation of contingencies, settlements and the recoverability of contract balances with reference to our own Revenue and margin recognition total revenue 4,080.9 million assessments, historical outcomes and industry norms: Refer to page 50 Report of the Audit Committee, page 81 Note 1. analysing correspondence and meeting minutes with customers Significant accounting policies Revenue recognition and page 111 Note around variations and claims, obtaining assessments of these from 32.
Accounting estimates and Judgements Revenue recognition.
the Groups legal or technical experts, if applicable: inspecting the contracts for key clauses, identifying relevant Contract judgements contractual mechanisms such as pain gain shares, liquidated The risk The Group recognises revenue based on the stage of damages and success fees and assessing their impact on the completion of contracts by taking the proportion of costs incurred to the accuracy of the amounts recognised in the financial statements: and balance sheet date compared to the estimated final costs of the contract at assessing whether the amounts recognised in the financial completion and therefore relies on estimates in relation to the final statements resulting from the estimates and assumptions applied out-turn of costs on each contract.
Changes to these estimates could give represented a balanced view of the risks and opportunities across rise to material variances in the amount of revenue and margin the portfolio of contract positions: and recognised.
Cost contingencies may also be included in these estimates to we also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in take account of specific risks, or claims against the Group, arising within respect of these judgements.
These contingencies are reviewed by the Group on a regular basis throughout the contract life and adjusted where appropriate.
Other revenue judgements Finally, variations and claims are recognised on a contract-by-contract The risk The timing of revenue recognition from licence arrangements is basis where the Group believes the rights and obligations exist given the dependent on a number of criteria, including the estimated fair value of progress of negotiations.
There is therefore a high degree of management any future revenue streams.
These criteria state that revenue recognition judgement in: assessing the level of these contingencies: recognising is required to be consistent with the transfer of the risks and rewards to the variations and claims: and estimating the revenue recognised by the contract counterparty.
The Groups estimate of the fair value of future Group with respect to the final out-turn on contracts.
royalty streams is judgemental and where this is estimated as not significant then the determinable element of the sale income is recognised immediately with contingent future royalty revenue recognised when earned.
If the fair value of the future royalty stream is assessed as significant, this indicates that the risks and rewards of ownership have not substantially transferred to the counterparty such that the determinable element of revenue should be spread over an appropriate period.
Given that the fair value assessments are based on a range of variables outside of managements control, this represents an area of judgement.
Our response In transactions where there is a potential future royalty stream we obtained and assessed the contractual terms of the transaction.
We also considered the Groups assessment of the fair value attributed to the future royalty stream and challenged the assumptions applied with reference to prevailing market data, including historical experience in other territories.
Overview 01-05 Strategy 06-22 Performance 23-37 Governance 38-72 Financials 73-124 71 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures for such 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope transactions in respect of the accounting policies adopted, revenue of our audit income recognised in the period and the key judgements and estimates The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 13.0 made by the Group in arriving at the conclusions.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, which we consider to be one of the principal Valuation of goodwill 1,449.7 million considerations for members of the company in assessing financial Refer to page 51 Report of the Audit Committee, page 80 Note 1. performance of the Group.
Materiality represents 8.5% of group profit Significant accounting policies Goodwill and other intangible assets and before taxation adjusted for the rationalisation costs set out in Note 4 pages 92 to 93 Note 11.
Non-recurring operating items and non-operating items and 11.8% of the Group profit before taxation as disclosed on the face of the income The risk The Groups balance sheet includes goodwill, principally arising statement.
from historic acquisitions in the UK.
The risk is that the aggregated book value of the goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount, and therefore this We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it: separately each asset is impaired and should be written down in value.
Due to the inherent corrected or uncorrected misstatement we identified through our audit uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, with a value in excess of 9.7 million: other audit misstatements below which are the basis of the assessment of recoverability, this is one of the 9.7 million that we believe warranted separate reporting on qualitative key judgemental areas for our audit.
Given the relative size of the goodwill grounds: and the aggregate of other corrected and uncorrected in the Group balance sheet, relatively small changes in these assumptions misstatements we identified through our audit with an individual value in could give rise to material changes in the assessment of the carrying value excess of 650,000. of goodwill.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by the Group audit Our response The Group annually carries out an impairment team in the United Kingdom and by component audit teams in: Canada: assessment of goodwill using a value in use model which is based on the United Arab Emirates: and Oman.
These audits covered over 94% of the net present value of the forecast earnings of the cash generating unit.
total Group revenue: over 84% of Group profit before taxation: and over The value in use of each cash generating unit CGU is calculated using 89% of total Group assets.
certain assumptions around discount rates, growth rates and cash flow forecasts.
The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the company were all performed to component materiality Our procedures included, among others, assessing the key assumptions levels.
These component materiality levels were set individually for each applied by the Group in determining the recoverable amounts of these component and ranged from 8.0 million to 10.0 million.
In particular, we: considered the consistency and appropriateness of allocation of businesses into CGUs and the underlying assumptions in Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these locations.
determining the cash flows and growth assumptions applied with These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be reference to historical forecasting accuracy: challenged the assumptions covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material used in the calculation of the discount rates used by the Group, including misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be comparisons with external data sources and consideration of the potential reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited the risk of management bias: and performed our own sensitivity analysis, following locations: the United Kingdom: Canada: the United Arab including a reasonably probable reduction in assumed growth rates Emirates: and Oman.
Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors and cash flows.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures at these locations and the majority of the other locations that were not see Note 11 about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment physically visited.
assessment to changes in key assumptions appropriately reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified Non-recurring operating and non-operating items 44.9 million In our opinion: Refer to page 51 Report of the Audit Committee and pages 87 and 88 Note 4.
Non-recurring operating items and non-operating items.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act The risk The Group recognises adjustments for non-recurring operating 2006: and and non-operating items to reconcile from operating profit under EU-IFRS the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors to underlying profit.
Given the scrutiny of underlying profit by external Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are parties any adjustments remain judgemental and are therefore subject to prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
In the current year the Group has specifically recognised a net 44.9 million in respect of non-recurring operating and non-operating items in arriving at underlying profit.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, among others: obtaining a breakdown of costs recognised in the period: agreeing amounts back to available evidence, particularly payroll records and leasing documentation: and challenging the Groups classification in respect of amounts separately disclosed as distinct from those which are absorbed within operating profit without separate disclosure.
We also considered whether: a appropriate prominence is given in the Annual Report to the EU-IFRS financial information and related commentary compared to the underlying financial information and related commentary: b whether the EU-IFRS and underlying financial information is reconciled with sufficient prominence given to that reconciliation: c whether the basis of the underlying financial information is clearly and accurately described: and d whether the underlying financial information is not otherwise misleading in the form and context in which it appears in the Annual Report.
72 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Carillion plc only continued 5 We have nothing to report in respect of matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 69, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 45 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 69, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Darren Turner Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants One Snowhill Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham B4 6GH 5 March 2014 Overview 01-05 Strategy 06-22 Performance 23-37 Governance 38-73 Financials 73-124 73 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials In this section 74 Consolidated income statement 114 Company balance sheet 75 Consolidated statement of 115 Notes to the Company comprehensive income financial statements 76 Consolidated statement of 120 Shareholder information changes in equity 121 Board of Directors and Advisers 77 Consolidated balance sheet 122 Five-year review 78 Consolidated cash flow statement 124 Technical index 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
