Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 157 Independent Auditors Report to the members of St. Jamess Place plc RepoRt on the paRent Company finanCial In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material statements inconsistencies with the audited Parent Company financial our opinion statements and to identify any information that is apparently In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements, materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the definedbelow: knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its cash flows for the year inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and opinions on otheR matteRs pResCRibed by the have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies aCt 2006 Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Parent remainder of this report.
Company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements: and What we have audited the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited The Parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies St. Jamess Place plc, comprise: Act 2006. the Balance Sheet of the Parent Company as at 31 December 2013: and otheR matteRs on WhiCh We aRe RequiRed to the notes to the Parent Company financial statements, which RepoRt by exCeption include a summary of significant accounting policies and other adequacy of accounting records and information and explanatory information.
explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their if, in our opinion: preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom we have not received all the information and explanations we Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted require for our audit: or Accounting Practice.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have received from branches not visited by us: or made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in they have made assumptions and considered future events.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the directors remuneration financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you financial statements and are identified as audited.
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to What an audit of financial statements involves report arising from this responsibility.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
other information in the annual Report An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: assurance that the financial statements are free from material materially inconsistent with the information in the audited misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Parent Company financial statements: or assessment of: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Parent Company Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied acquired in the course of performing our audit: or and adequately disclosed: is otherwise misleading.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
158 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of St. Jamess Place plc Responsibilities foR the finanCial statements and the audit our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 97, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
otheR matteR We have reported separately on the Consolidated financial statements of St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended 31December 2013.
Craig Gentle Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Bristol 24 February 2014 Notes: The maintenance and integrity of the St. Jamess Place plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
