Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99 Independent Auditors Report to the members of St. Jamess Place plc RepoRt on the Consolidated finanCial inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent statements material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the our opinion implications for our report.
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements, definedbelow: overview of our audit approach give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for Materiality the year then ended: We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to have been properly prepared in accordance with International determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and European Union: and on the financial statements as a whole.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole to be This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the 15million.
In arriving at this judgement we have had remainder of this report.
regardtoprofit before tax attributable to shareholders returns because, in our view, this is the most relevant measure of What we have audited underlying performance.
The consolidated financial statements, which are prepared by St. Jamess Place plc, comprise: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the consolidated statement of financial position as at them misstatements identified during our audit above 31December 2013: 0.75million as well as misstatements below that amount that, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity and Overview of the scope of our audit consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then The Group is structured to reflect its vertically integrated ended:and insurance and wealth management operations situated the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which predominantly in the UK and also in the Republic of Ireland.
The include a summary of significant accounting policies and other consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of five explanatory information.
financially significant reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions and the St. Jamess The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Place Unit Trusts where they are considered to be subsidiaries of preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the the Group.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we What an audit of financial statements involves determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the We conducted our audit in accordance with International reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, or Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
component auditors from other PwC network firms operating An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we assurance that the financial statements are free from material needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had assessment of: been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups financial statements as a whole.
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Accordingly, the five financially significant reporting units the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by required an audit of their complete financial information, due to the Directors: and their size and or their risk characteristics.
Specific audit the overall presentation of the financial statements.
procedures on certain balances and transactions were also performed over those St. Jamess Place Unit Trusts regarded as In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial subsidiaries of the Group.
This, together with additional information in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual procedures performed at the consolidated level, gave us the Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited evidence we needed for our opinion on the consolidated financial consolidated financial statements and to identify any information statements as a whole.
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 100 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of St. Jamess Place plc Areas of particular audit focus necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We considered the following areas to be those that required We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 59 to 61.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered how the scope of our audit how the scope of our audit area of focus addressed the area of focus area of focus addressed the area of focus Existence and We agreed the existence of all holdings Fraud in revenue We evaluated the relevant IT systems of the financial investment portfolio to a and tested the internal controls over valuation of recognition confirmation received from independent the completeness, accuracy and timing financial ISAs UK & custodians as at 31 December 2013. of revenue recognised in the financial Ireland presume investments and statements.
there is a risk of investment We independently agreed the existence of a fraud in revenue property sample of holdings of Investment Properties We assessed the Directors judgements recognition We did not assess as at 31 December to the Land Register and estimates that had a direct impact on because of these investments maintained by the Land Registry.
revenue, for example the amortisation profile the pressure to be a significant of the deferred income and the classification management may risk area for We obtained and read the International of St. Jamess Place plc products between feel to achieve the our audit but Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE insurance and investment business.
their magnitude 3402 Assurance Reports on Controls at a in the context Service Organisation for State Streets Global We tested journal entries posted to revenue We focused on of the financial Fund Accounting and Custody operations accounts that met specific criteria to identify the transactions statements meant which provided a description of the systems unusual or irregular items.
which included that they were an and controls in place and the results of the a judgemental area of focus for testing of the operational effectiveness of element in their testing.
Where appropriate, we placed calculation, for reliance on the controls described in the example the St. Jamess Place ISAE 3402 report to gain evidence over the determination of plc outsources valuation and existence of the investments the amortisation the custodian within the portfolio.
period for the and valuation deferred income.
Our In addition to our controls testing we audit procedures independently re-priced a sample of derivative Refer also to note therefore focus investments as at 31 December 2013.
We 2 to the financial on the evidence also independently re-priced all equity, fixed statements.
available over income and collective investment scheme these outsourced Risk of We assessed the overall control environment investments at a point in time during the processes.
of the Group, including the arrangements management year to complement our controls reliance.
for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate override of We agreed our independent prices to those actions, and interviewed senior management internal controls provided by State Street.
and the Groups internal audit function.
ISAs UK & We examined the significant accounting Ireland require For Investment Properties we tested the estimates and judgements relevant to the that we consider inputs to the valuation process and tested the financial statements for evidence of bias by this.
reasonableness of the rental yield assumptions the Directors that may represent a risk of used by the Directors in the valuation of the material misstatement due to fraud.
We also portfolio as at 31 December 2013. tested journal entries.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 101 Going Concern the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of statement, set out on page 95, in relation to going concern.
performing our audit: or We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the section of the Annual Report and Accounts describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the consolidated financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it other information in the annual Report to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited consolidated financial statements: or However, because not all future events or conditions can be apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the ability to continue as a going concern.
course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
opinions on otheR matteRs pResCRibed by the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Companies aCt 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Responsibilities foR the finanCial statements Directors Report for the financial year for which the and the audit consolidated financial statements are prepared is consistent our responsibilities and those of the directors with the consolidated financial statements: and As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement Responsibilities set out on page 97, the Directors are responsible set out on pages 61 and 94 in the Annual Report with respect to for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and internal control and risk management systems and about share for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable otheR matteRs on WhiCh We aRe RequiRed to law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to RepoRt by exCeption comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards adequacy of information and explanations received forAuditors.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with report arising from this responsibility.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume directors remuneration responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
specified by law have not been made.
otheR matteR Corporate Governance statement We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you statements of St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended if, in our opinion a corporate governance statement has not been 31December 2013 and on the information in the Directors prepared by the Parent Company.
We have no exceptions to Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
report arising from this responsibility.
Craig Gentle Senior Statutory Auditor Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the for and on behalf of  LLP Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Bristol Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having 24 February 2014 performed our review.
Notes: The maintenance and integrity of the St. Jamess Place plc website is the On page 97 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable since they were initially presented on the website.
and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 60, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
