Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 165 Independent Auditors Report to the Directors of St. Jamess Place plc the Company RepoRt on the supplementaRy infoRmation In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify euRopean embedded Value basis material inconsistencies with the audited supplementary our opinion information and to identify any information that is apparently In our opinion, the supplementary information, defined below, materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the for the year ended 31 December 2013 has been properly knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or EEVbasis set out in Note I Basis of Preparation to the inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the Responsibilities foR the supplementaRy remainder of this report.
infoRmation and the audit our responsibilities and those of the directors What we have audited The directors are responsible for the preparation of the The supplementary information European Embedded Value supplementary information in accordance with the EEV EEV basis the supplementary information, which is basissetout in Note I Basis of Preparation to the prepared by St. Jamess Place plc the Company, comprises: .
the consolidated statement of financial position European Embedded Value Basis as at 31 December 2013: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the the consolidated statement of income European Embedded supplementary information in accordance with applicable law and Value Basis for the year then ended: ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the consolidated statement of changes in equity European the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Embedded Value Basis for the year then ended: and the notes to the European Embedded Value Basis, which This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and include the EEV basis and methodology set out in Notes I and II only for the Companys directors as a body in accordance with and other explanatory information.
our letter of engagement dated 22 July 2013 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to preparation is the EEV basis set out in Note I Basis of whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Preparation to the supplementary information.
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of supplementary information involves  LLP We conducted our audit in accordance with International Chartered Accountants Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Bristol An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 24 February 2014 disclosures in the supplementary information sufficient to give Notes: reasonable assurance that the supplementary information is free The maintenance and integrity of the St. Jamess Place plc website is the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no This includes an assessment of: responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups since they were initially presented on the website.
circumstances and have been consistently applied and Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the supplementary information.
