226 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Independent Auditors report to the members of Standard Chartered PLC 1 Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit These assessments enabled us to form a judgment on going concern Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodied.
and also highlighted the key areas of financial statement risk on which ouraudit has focused.
By looking at both broad risk themes across the We have audited the financial statements of Standard Chartered PLC Group and particular concerns in specic geographies and businesses, theGroup for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 229 we were able to calibrate our work to financial statement risk more to 311.
In particular we identied the following issues: economic The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the difficulties in India caused some stress in the Groups wholesale portfolio: Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 high consumer debt levels plus an economic slowdown in South Korea and of the Groups profit for the year then ended caused some stress in the Groups consumer portfolio: more generally these factors in South Korea continued to depress profitability there: and, The group financial statements have been properly prepared in while the UAE economy is recovering and property prices are rising, risk accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS in the portfolio does remain from the debt overhang that arose in the as adopted by the European Union EU financial crisis.
The parent company financial statements have been properly Having addressed the going concern assumption and whether the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as Groups database of transactions was a sufficient underlying basis for applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act the accounts, the risks of material misstatement lay in decisions over 2006 loan and goodwill impairments and the valuation of financial instruments.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the This is because they require significant judgment in assessing subjective requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group and uncertain estimates.
As described on pages 158 to 159 these financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation arealso the areas that have been focused on by the Groups Audit Committee.
In forming our unmodied opinion on the financial 2 Our assessment of the risks of material misstatement statements, we undertook the following principal procedures on each The starting point for our audit was a consideration of the inherent risks to of these areas as follows.
the Groups business model and how these have been mitigated.
This included understanding the strength of the Groups capital and liquidity Impairment of loans and advances position, the diversication of its assets, the exibility and tenor of its The risk is that bad debts may be misstated.
Wholesale Banking WB balance sheet and the management of its cost base.
We assessed and represents 65 per cent $253 billion of the Groups loan portfolio, challenged the inherent risks with reference to: whileConsumer Banking CB represents 35 per cent $130 billion.
These portfolios are different in nature and require a different approach Independent economic forecasts and commentary toloan impairment.
WBs portfolio comprises larger loans that are The perspectives of our in-country audit teams on their local monitored individually by management.
The assessment of loan loss economies and banking industries impairment is therefore based on knowledge of each individual borrower.
Private banking loans and loans to medium-sized enterprises within CB The views of our specialists in a number of areas including bank are assessed in the same way.
However, the remainder of CBs portfolio regulation, IT, tax and financial crime prevention comprises much smaller value loans to a very much greater number of The views of the Prudential Regulatory Authority customers.
Loans are not monitored on an individual basis, but are grouped by product into homogeneous portfolios.
Portfolios are then The significant changes taking place in banking regulation, both in monitored through delinquency statistics, which also drive the the UK and in the other jurisdictions in which the Group operates assessment of loan loss provisions.
Checking for consistency between among others the Groups Our response We undertook the following audit procedures in all budgets, regular forecasts, stress testing, reporting to the Audit, in-s cope countries: Board Risk and Group Risk Committees and the many discussions we have with senior management in different countries For both WB and CB our in-country teams used their local knowledge to assess the trends in their local credit environments We also considered the Groups control environment and in particular and considered the likely impact on the Groups portfolio to focus whether its systems were processing transactions completely and their testing on key risk areas faithfully, and included appropriate controls designed to prevent fraud.
Our work included testing the key controls over the processing of For WB, we tested the key controls over the credit grading process, transactions and the key inter-system, bank and custodial reconciliations to assess if the risk grades allocated to counterparties were as well as trade conrmations.
In addition we sought to apply industry appropriate.
We then performed detailed credit assessments of all lessons learned from recent dealing room issues at other banks in our loans above $50 million in credit grades 13 and 14 see page 72 and testing of controls.
key loans above $100 million on the Groups early alert list see page 73 together with a selection of other loans.
In doing these, we critically assessed the reasonableness of the forecast of recoverable cash ows, realisation of collateral and other possible sources of repayment.
We checked the consistency of key assumptions and compared them to progress against business plans and our own understanding of the relevant industries and business environments.
We also checked them where possible to externally derived evidence, such as commodity prices and forecasts, real estate valuations and regulatory approvals Financial statements and notes 227 For CB, the impairment process is based on projecting losses based Finally we assessed whether the financial statement disclosures, on the prior historical payment performance of each portfolio, including sensitivity to key inputs, are appropriate.
adjusted for current market conditions.
We used our own valuation Valuation of financial instruments in the balance sheet specialists to evaluate the integrity and quality of the models used The risk is that financial instruments may be mispriced in the balance and tested the accuracy of the historical payment performance data sheet, because they are not based on objective external prices or, where input into them.
We then challenged the appropriateness of the these are not easily observable, the best estimate of what they may be.
adjustments made by management to reect current market Of the financial instruments that are carried at fair value or as available for conditions, with reference to our own knowledge and to market and sale in the Groups balance sheet, 98 per cent qualied as Level 1 or 2 as economic conditions at 31 December 2013.
This means they were valued using prices that Our focus in particular risk areas was as follows: were observable in the market place or through models with market observable inputs, resulting in the valuation risk being low.
However, For Indian exposures we analysed the portfolio to identify those more liquidity has drained rapidly from emerging and developing markets in vulnerable to the slowdown, including those adversely impacted by past periods and it is important to ascertain that prices are liquid enough the depreciation of the rupee, the infrastructure sector and to be genuinely observable in the market.
The remaining 2 per cent exposures to government and state dependent entities $5 billion of financial instruments are classed as Level 3, because In the UAE we revisited restructured legacy exposures to assess certain pricing inputs to them are unobservable.
The determination of whether they were still performing as expected and whether the these prices is considerably more subjective.
recovery assumptions remained appropriate Our response For all financial instruments we checked for a selection In South Korea, the principal risk lay in the impact of the Personal that prices used were externally sourced and were correctly input into Debt Rehabilitation Scheme PDRS on the consumer book see pricing models.
We used our own valuation specialists to check that the page 43.
Applicants only qualify for PDRS if they meet certain models were appropriate and they valued a selection of the Groups debt criteria, not all of which are visible to the external credit bureaux.
securities and derivative positions independently and compared their Thismakes precise assessment of the exposure challenging.
We valuation to the Groups valuation.
confirmed trends in PDRS lings to external market data, checked In order to assess the liquidity of the prices for Level 1 and 2 instruments, loss forecasts to historical experience and checked the Groups we tested a selection of instruments to establish how many institutions analysis of the vulnerable parts of its portfolio to external credit contributed to pricing inputs and how wide the ranges of observable bureaux data quotes were.
We checked that these factors were taken into account by Finally we assessed whether the financial statement disclosures, the Group.
including sensitivity to key inputs, appropriately reect the Groups In 2013, Level 3 instruments mainly comprised unlisted private equity exposure to credit risk.
investments and a small number of illiquid, thinly traded loans and debt Goodwill securities.
For this portfolio, we performed additional procedures over The risk is that goodwill in the balance sheet may not be supported by aselection of investments, critically assessing key inputs, assumptions the future cash ows of the underlying business.
Total goodwill in the and models, considering alternative valuation methods and assessing balance sheet is $5.2 billion but approximately $2.5 billion of this relates sensitivities to key factors.
For example, for unlisted private equity to businesses where post-acquisition growth in cash ows now provides positions, we assessed the appropriateness of the pricing multiples substantial headroom over the goodwill balance.
We regard these as available from comparable listed companies and for material loans and very low risk from a misstatement perspective.
Our work was therefore debt instruments, we assessed the reasonableness of the forecast cash focused on the acquisitions where the headroom is lower, amounting to ows and discount rates used by comparing them to similar instruments.
Finally we assessed whether the financial statement disclosures, Our response We used our own valuation specialists to assess the including sensitivity to key inputs, appropriately reect the Groups appropriateness of the Groups forecasting approach and its derivation exposure to financial instrument valuation risk.
We compared the latter to external sources.
Our 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope challenge to the cash ow forecasts included: conrming the internal ofthe audit consistency of assumptions and comparing them to progress against The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at business plans and our knowledge of the local banking environment: $300 million.
This was determined with reference to a benchmark against comparing forecasts to past performance and to GDP forecasts from the group profit before tax of which it represents around 5 per cent, IMF: assessing past forecasting accuracy, by comparing past forecasts because we consider this to be the principal measure used by to actual outcomes: and checking non-financial assumptions to evidence shareholders in assessing the Groups financial performance.
Weagreed with the Audit Committee to report to it any uncorrected In 2013, our primary focus was on South Korea.
Given the complex misstatement affecting group profit and loss or group shareholders interplay of factors relating to the local economic, regulatory, and social funds of more than $10 million and any uncorrected misstatement conditions, the Senior Statutory Auditor visited Seoul to gain a deeper affecting group assets and liabilities only of more than $100 million.
In insight into the issues.
In addition: we assessed the vulnerability of the addition we agreed to report any other audit misstatements below these business to further loan losses, drawing on our work on loan impairment thresholds that we believed warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
described above: we sought supporting evidence for key non-financial improvements to the business such as the introduction of new products : and we critically assessed the reasonableness of forecast product mixes against historical outcomes.
228 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Independent Auditors report to the members of Standard Chartered PLC continued How we scoped our audit In particular, we are required to report to you if: Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed at 32 branches and We have identied material inconsistencies between the knowledge subsidiaries in 23 countries, together with the necessary supporting test we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they work at the Groups seven central hubs that perform or support many of consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a its financial processes.
More limited audit testing was performed at a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the further three branches, primarily because they either hold significant information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups amounts of liquid assets or because they clear significant volumes of performance, business model and strategy transactions.
Our audit testing at these three branches, when combined with work we did at central hubs, ensured coverage of these and other The Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report and higher risk areas.
The entities scoped into these two categories of testing Accounts describing the work of the Group Audit Committee does included all significant dealing room activities.
not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Group Audit Committee The audit work undertaken for Group reporting purposes at these branches, subsidiaries and hubs, together key reporting components, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in were all performed by the component auditor to materiality levels set by, our opinion: or agreed with, the Group audit team.
These materiality levels were set Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent individually for each component and ranged from $1 million to company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received $80 million.
The key reporting components represent 95 per cent of from branches not visited by us group profit before tax and 97 per cent of total assets.
The parent company financial statements and the part of the As well as drawing up the scope, Group audit instructions and exercising Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement overall oversight, the Group audit team performed the work on valuation with the accounting records and returns of financial instruments and goodwill impairment itself.
In addition it performed quality assurance checks on loan loss audit judgments made Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are by component auditors for all key loans above $50 million in credit grades not made 13 and 14 see page 72 and key loans above $100 million on the Groups We have not received all the information and explanations we require early alert list see page 73.
Further, the Senior Statutory Auditor and for our audit other members of the Group audit team visited key locations to gain first-hand knowledge of key risks and issues.
This year they visited Hong Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Kong, Singapore, India, the UAE, China, Taiwan and South Korea.
The directors statement, set out on page 223, in relation to going A particular focus was managing the audit of the centralised hubs, which concern require component audit teams to co-operate effectively.
Common The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 144 and auditobjectives were co-ordinated through common global audit 145 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of programmes, which set out the responsibilities of each component team the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review on a test-by-test basis.
This process was overseen by the Group audit team and a group of audit partners, based in each of the Groups key We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
regions, who oversaw their region in more detail and helped to ensure 6 Scope of report and responsibilities that the audit approach was fully understood and that key issues were As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statements set properly addressed.
out on page 223, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies thenancial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true Act 2006 is unmodied andfair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial In our opinion: statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the The part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been Companys members as a body and subject to important explanations properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website The information given in the strategic report and the Directors report at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide is consistent with the financial statements an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on whichwe are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identied other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
John Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 5 March 2014
