50 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of SVG Capital plc We have audited the financial statements of SVG Capital plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated and Company Income Statements, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Consolidated Income, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 30.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we haveformed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 38, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups and Companys profit for the year then ended: and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team: valuation of the Groups investments existence and ownership of the Groups investments.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing the audit, and in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements, if any, on the financial statements and in forming our audit opinion in the auditors report.
We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 12.2 million which is 1% of total equity.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 50% of planning materiality, namely 6.1 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total detected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning materiality level.
We have reported to the Audit Committee all audit differences in excess of 610,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, inour view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Strategic report Corporate information Financial information Company information SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 51 An overview of the scope of our audit 100% of the Groups profit before tax and 100% of the Groups net assets were subject to a full scope audit by the group audit team.
Ourresponse to the risks identified above was as follows: with the assistance of our valuation experts, we considered the appropriateness of the valuation techniques and inputs applied tounlisted investments: and we agreed year end prices for a sample of quoted securities within the Groups fund investments to an independent source: and we obtained independent confirmation from the fund administrators of the Groups fund investments and agreed this to the books andrecords of the Group.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the CompaniesAct2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during theaudit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the AnnualReport appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors Report, set out on page 35, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to Shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
Andrew McIntyre Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 14 February 2014
