230986 Temple Bar pp19-pp30 14 02 2014 17:28 Page 29 Active investment working for you Independent auditors report to the members of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Opinion on financial statements We have audited the financial statements of Temple Bar In our opinion the financial statements: Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys the Statement of Changes in Equity, the Statement of affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the profit for the Financial Position, the Statement of Cash Flows and the year then ended: related notes 1 to 22.
The financial reporting framework have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law adopted by the European Union: and and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
have been applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken We identified the following risks of material misstatement that so that we might state to the Companys members those had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the matters we are required to state to them in an auditors allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the engagement team: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility existence and ownership of the Companys investments: to anyone other than the Company and the Companys and members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
valuation of the Companys investments.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Our application of materiality As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and Responsibilities set out on page 28, the directors are performing the audit, and in evaluating the effect of identified responsible for the preparation of the Company financial misstatements on the audit and of uncorrected statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and misstatements, if any, on the financial statements and in fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an forming our audit opinion in the Auditors Report.
opinion on the Company financial statements in accordance When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing materiality for the Company to be 7.9 million, which is 1% of UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with total equity.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying Auditors.
and assessing the risk of material misstatement and Scope of the audit of the financial statements determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts procedures.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys for the Company should be 75% of materiality, namely circumstances and have been consistently applied and 5.94 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall in the financial statements did not exceed our materiality level.
presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the We report to the Audit Committee any audit differences in annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the excess of 0.6 million, as well as differences below that audited financial statements and to identify any threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative information that is apparently materially incorrect based grounds.
on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 29 230986 Temple Bar pp19-pp30 14 02 2014 17:28 Page 30 Active investment working for you Independent auditors report continued An overview of the scope of our audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Our response to the risks identified above was as follows: you if, in our opinion: we obtained independent confirmation from the custodian adequate accounting records have not been kept by the of the Companys investments and agreed them to the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been books and records of the Company: and received by us: or we agreed year end prices for quoted investments to an the Company financial statements and the part of the independent source.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by In our opinion: law are not made: or the information given in the Strategic Report and the we have not received all the information and explanations Directors Report for the financial year for which the we require for our audit.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: financial statements: and the directors statement, set out on page 19, in relation to the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be going concern: audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Companies Act 2006. the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Matters on which we are required to report by exception UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: We have nothing to report in respect of the following: and Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: on directors remuneration.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Ashley Coups Senior statutory auditor is otherwise misleading.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor In particular, we are required to consider whether we have London identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired 12 February 2014 during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
30 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
