Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc Opinion on Financial Statements of Tullett Prebon plc In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups and the Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related Notes 1 to 38, the Parent Company Balance Sheet and related Notes 1 to 7.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 23 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern which we believe would need to be disclosed in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the Financial Statements is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
45 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risks How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies, We performed detailed control and substantive testing on each Note 3 a, revenue comprises of gross commissions, brokerage, separate class of revenue: Name Passing, Matched Principal, fees earned and subscription for information sales.
Revenue is Executing Broking and Information Sales.
This included stated net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts.
Revenue is a checking a sample of revenue items for each type to third party key driver of the business including determining broker verification of cash settlement, or aged receivables reports compensation costs and the validity and timing of revenue where amounts remained unsettled at the year end and to recognition is considered a significant audit risk.
counterparty confirmations for broking transactions and source contracts for information sales.
Carrying value of goodwill As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies, We challenged managements assumptions used in the Note 3 e, goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least impairment model for goodwill, including specifically the annually.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires cash flow projections, discount rates, growth rates and an estimation of the value in use of the four cash-generating the sensitivities used particularly in respect of the Groups units to which goodwill has been allocated.
This estimation interest in North America where the headroom is less.
takes into account future cash flows expected to arise, the We performed back testing on the assumptions used in selection of suitable discount rates and a forecast of future the previous year to assess the validity of the assumptions growth rates and is therefore inherently subjective.
In 2012, used for the current year and we benchmarked the assumed 123.0m of goodwill in the North America cash-generating discount rates to external and peer group data.
The value in use of all cash-generating units is sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions.
Taxation As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies, Using our tax specialists, we assessed all relevant developments Note 3 s, the Group has taken account of tax issues that in respect of each of the Groups outstanding tax issues.
are subject to ongoing discussions with the relevant tax We have reviewed correspondence with the relevant tax authorities in determining its current and deferred tax liability.
authorities, understood the judgements made by the Directors, An assessment of the likely outcome is required in determining held meetings with senior management and independently the carrying value of tax liabilities.
considered the likely outcomes and technical tax treatments to assess the reasonableness of the provisions made.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 29.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 8.4m, which is based on 10% of profit before tax and is below 3% of equity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.2m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
46 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work at eleven locations covering 22 subsidiaries which were deemed to be significant components.
All of these were subject to a full audit.
These 22 subsidiaries represent the principal business units within the Groups three reportable segments and account for 94% of the Groups net assets, 97% of the Groups revenue and 95% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Audits of these locations were performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned.
The Group audit team has responsibility for overseeing all aspects of the audit work of the component auditors.
In discharging this responsibility, the Senior Statutory Auditor visits the US twice a year as it is the most material of all of the overseas components and visits Singapore once a year to oversee the audits of the Asian component audit teams.
The Senior Statutory Auditor has regular dialogue with all component auditors throughout all phases of the audit and receives written clearance memorandums from every significant component auditor setting out the results of their audit procedures.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the Report on Directors Remuneration.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
47 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc continued Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 4 March 2014 48 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013
