Independent auditors report to the members of Witan Investment Trust plc Opinion on financial statements of Witan Investment framework that has been applied in their preparation is Trust plc applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union In our opinion: and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies the financial statements give a true and fair view of Act 2006. the{state of the Groups and of the parent Companys a airs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups Going concern pro t{for the year then ended: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the the Group financial statements have been properly directors statement contained within the Strategic Report prepared in accordance with International Financial that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the we have concluded that the directors use of the going European Union: concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the the parent Company financial statements have been financial statements is appropriate: and properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted we have not identi ed any material uncertainties that by the European Union and as applied in accordance may cast signi cant doubt on the Groups ability to with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and continue as a going concern.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the However, because not all future events or conditions can be Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
ability to continue as a going concern.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated and The assessed risks of material misstatement described below Individual Company Statements of Changes in Equity, are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, Consolidated and Individual Company Balance Sheets, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the Consolidated and Individual Company Cash Flow Statements efforts of the engagement team: and the related notes 1 to 25.
The financial reporting 56 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Director s Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation and liquidity of investments of the Group To test the valuation of investments as at 31 December 2013, The investment balance is the most quantitatively we performed the following: significant{balance on the balance sheet and is the main assessed the design and implementation of controls driver of the groups performance, standing at 1.4 billion as over the pricing of investments to identify whether at 31{December 2013.
There is a risk that if the investments there were any weaknesses in internal control over are{not actively traded, the prices are not reflective of their valuing investments: fair value.
for all quoted investments, valued at 1,43 7 million, we agreed the bid prices to an independent pricing source: and for all derivative instruments, valued at 1.7 million, we involved a financial instrument specialist to value such instruments, including assessing the discount factors and other indices used in the valuations.
To test the liquidity of investments as at 31 December 2013, we performed the following: veri ed the trading activity and volume, on a sample basis, of investments held around the year end: and identi ed investments which are not frequently traded and considered indicators of impairment by monitoring the price of any post year-end sales.
Ownership of investments We confirmed the ownership of all investments at year end The investment balance is the most quantitatively by obtaining independent third party confirmations directly significant{balance on the balance sheet, standing at from the custodians and agreeing them to the listing of 1.4 billion as{at 31 December 2013.
Therefore, the risk investments held at year end.
that the Group does not hold the rights and obligations to these investments could materially impact the financial We reviewed the latest available report on internal controls statements.
of the Groups outsourced custodian and assessed the adequacy of the custodians controls over the safeguarding and monitoring of the Groups investments.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 42.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 57 Independent auditors report continued Our application of materiality Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement Act 2006 in the financial statements that makes it probable that the In our opinion: economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in audited has been properly prepared in accordance with planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the the Companies Act 2006: and results of our work.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the We determined materiality for the Group to be 41million, Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with which has been determined using 3% of Shareholders Funds.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 10,000, Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to{you if, in our opinion: the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the{financial we have not received all the information and statements.
explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit the parent company financial statements are not in work to respond to the risks of material misstatement for agreement with the accounting records and returns.
all entities in the Group was performed directly by the audit We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration As the accounting is performed by service organisations, we{obtained an understanding of how the Group uses service Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors organisations in its operations and evaluated the design and implementation of relevant controls at the Group that remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in relate to the services provided by service organisations.
We{reviewed the latest reports on internal controls from the agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
service organisations and contacted them directly to obtain specific information we needed to conduct our audit.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
58 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Director s Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report This report is made solely to the Companys members, Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken in the annual report is: so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors materially inconsistent with the information in the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent audited financial statements: or permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially to anyone other than the Company and the Companys inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or in the course of performing our audit: or for{the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts In particular, we are required to consider whether we have and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge give reasonable assurance that the financial statements acquired during the audit and the directors statement are free from material misstatement, whether caused by that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the understandable and whether the annual report appropriately accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the discloses those matters that we communicated to the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently Audit Committee which we consider should have been applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such significant accounting estimates made by the directors: inconsistencies or misleading statements.
and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor information in the annual report to identify material As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation to identify any information that is apparently materially of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with implications for our report.
the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Stuart McLaren Senior Statutory Auditor Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and London, United Kingdom systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, and independent partner reviews.
1 1 March 2014 Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 59
