Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 85 Independent auditors report to the members of Centamin plc Opinion on financial statements of Centamin plc mine to be invalid, but separately found that there was 2 in existence a valid 3km exploitation lease.
The Group In our opinion the financial statements: has filed an appeal before the Supreme Administrative give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups Court in Egypt to challenge this judgment and on affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups 20 March 2013 the Court suspended the enforcement profit for the year then ended: of the judgment pending a hearing on the merits of have been properly prepared in accordance with the appeal.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Whilst the directors are confident based on legal advice as adopted by the European Union: and that the matter will be resolved in the Groups favour, have been properly prepared in accordance with the the ultimate outcome of the appeal cannot presently Companies Jersey Law, 1991. be determined with any certainty, and no impairment or other impact that may result has been recorded in the The financial statements comprise the Consolidated financial statements.
Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Going concern Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated We have reviewed the directors statement on page 83 Statement of Cash Flows and the related Notes 1 to 30. that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by we have concluded that the directors use of the going the European Union.
concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and Emphasis of matter significant uncertainty relating to we have not identified any material uncertainties that the outcome of the Sukari exploitation lease judgment may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which continue as a going concern.
is not modified, we have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in Notes 3, 4 and 20 to the financial However, because not all future events or conditions can statements concerning the 30 October 2012 judgment be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the of the Egyptian Administrative Court, which found the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
2 Companys 160km exploitation lease for the Sukari Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court in We reviewed legal advice from managements external legal Egypt concerning the validity of the Sukari exploitation lease counsel in connection with the legal case.
This advice specifically assessed the risk that the Group may not succeed in its appeal Centamin has an ongoing legal case relating to the validity of against the Administrative Court ruling.
its exploitation lease for Sukari.
If Centamin lose the case they 2 will lose the right to exploit the 160km area previously provided We held meetings with the Groupss internal and external legal 2 within the concession agreement and will revert to a 3km counsel and evaluated managements assessment of the outcome exploitation area.
The outcome of this legal case is subject to significant uncertainty We have reviewed the disclosures within the financial statements and accordingly we have included an emphasis of matter within for consistency with opinions given by the Groups internal and our audit opinion as set out above.
The assessment of the risk of impairment of the Sukari We challenged managements assumptions and key inputs used producing asset in the impairment model for the Sukari producing asset including the discount rate, cash flow projections, the reserves, gold price The Sukari producing asset is material by virtue of its size and and production profile.
Where applicable, we assessed the key nature to Centamin.
In a reducing gold price environment there is assumptions in line with observable industry benchmarks and a risk that the book value of the asset may not be recoverable.
compared them to external data, employing the use of internal specialists.
We assessed whether the assumptions used were in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
We also visited the Sukari mine as part of our audit procedures.
Our visit enabled us to corroborate our understanding with operational staff and to observe that mining activity was consistent with the Groups mine plan.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 86 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Centamin plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The claim before the Administrative Court in Egypt We reviewed legal advice from managements external legal concerning diesel fuel disputes counsel in connection with the legal case.
Centamin has an ongoing legal case relating to historical and We held meetings with the Groups internal and external legal current fuel subsidies.
The potential amount that could be counsel and evaluated managements assessment of the outcome recouped relating to the current subsidy case is $97m and the of the court case.
potential amount that the Company could have to pay if they lose We have reviewed the disclosures within the financial statements the historical case is $60m.
for consistency with opinions given by the Groups internal and external legal counsel.
The assessment of the risk of impairment of exploration and We considered and challenged the appropriateness of evaluation assets managements judgements in relation to the ongoing viability of their exploration and evaluation asset base.
The Group capitalises exploration and evaluation E&E expenditure in line with IFRS 6: Exploration for and Evaluation We participated in meetings with key operational and finance of Mineral Resources.
The assessment of each assets future staff to understand the exploration and evaluation activities and prospectively requires significant judgement.
There is a risk that gathered evidence relevant to the recoverability of exploration amounts are capitalised which no longer meet the recognition and evaluation assets carried forward, including drilling results, criteria of IFRS 6. confirmations of any changes to license conditions, exploration and evaluation budgets and ongoing exploration activity.
We also reviewed and challenged managements assessment of impairment indicators of exploration assets in accordance with IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on pages 78 and 79.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality All audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the group audit We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement engagement team.
In the year, members of the group in the financial statements that makes it probable that audit engagement team visited the Sukari mine site, the the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable headquarters of the Egyptian office in Alexandria and person would be changed or influenced.
We use the headquarters of Centamin plc in Jersey.
materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Other Group companies in Australia and Jersey, and exploration assets in other companies, were subject We determined materiality for the Group to be to specific audit procedures to address identified risks $10 million, which is approximately 5% of the Groups and other matters with all work performed by the profit before impairment charges and tax, and below 1% group audit team.
We did not employ the use of any of equity.
Impairment charges have been added back component auditors for the purpose of the Group audit.
because, if included, they would distort the materiality assessment year on year.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess Adequacy of explanations received of 200,000, as well as differences below that threshold and accounting records that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on to report to you if, in our opinion: disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the we have not received all the information and overall presentation of the financial statements.
explanations we require for our audit: or An overview of the scope of our audit proper accounting records have not been kept by Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an the parent company, or proper returns adequate for understanding of the Group and its environment, our audit have not been received from branches not including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks visited by us: or of material misstatement at the group level.
the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Based on that assessment, our group audit scope focused primarily on the Sukari Gold Mine, the Groups We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
principal operation, which was subject to a full audit at a lower level of materiality.
This location accounts for 95% of the Groups net assets, 100% of the Groups revenue and 100% of the Groups gross profit.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 87 Corporate Governance Statement This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the Jersey Law, 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to so that we might state to the companys members those the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report report and or those further matters we have expressly arising from our review.
agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by Under International Standards on Auditing UK and law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, other than the company and the companys members as a information in the annual report is: body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions materially inconsistent with the information in the we have formed.
audited financial statements: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to in the course of performing our audit: or give reasonable assurance that the financial statements otherwise misleading.
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether In particular, we are required to consider whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups we have identified any inconsistencies between our circumstances and have been consistently applied and knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant statement that they consider the annual report is accounting estimates made by the directors: and fair, balanced and understandable and whether the the overall presentation of the financial statements.
annual report appropriately discloses those matters In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial that we communicated to the audit committee which information in the annual report to identify material we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or to identify any information that is apparently materially misleading statements.
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Other matters knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material Report to be audited has been properly prepared in misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act implications for our report.
2006 as if that Act had applied to the company.
Douglas King FCA We have reviewed certain elements of the report to the For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration as if Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor the company had been incorporated in the UK and have London, UK nothing to report to you in that respect.
21 March 2014 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
