88 Independent auditor's report to the members of Chemring Group PLC In our opinion: Opinion on financial statements of Chemring Group PLC the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and the parent companys affairs as at 31 October 2013 and the Groups loss for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the group statement of changes in equity, the parent company reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds and the related notes 1 to 41.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors Going concern statement contained within the directors report on page 32 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial s Financial st tat atemen ement ts s Other in Other inf formation ormation 89 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: RISk HOw THE SCOPE Of OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISk Revenue recognition on: Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the design and implementation of controls over longterm contract accounting.
We reviewed the contract significant longterm contracts, due to the risk registers and evidence for the progress made against the contract financial effects of judgments, including to confirm that revenue and profit recognised to date are based on future milestone success, associated with managements current best estimate of the degree of contract completion.
determining the percentage of contract We understood and challenged managements assumptions by referring to completion at the balance sheet date and risks evidence including signed contract terms and latest project status reports, associated with completing the contract: and and discussing contract progress and future risks with contract engineers.
We also assessed the reliability of management estimates through delivery of goods, due to the complex consideration of the historical accuracy of prior period management contractual terms with regards to the estimates.
transfer of risk and reward and therefore the appropriate point at which revenue should be In response to the risk of inappropriate revenue cutoff arising from recognised.
complex contractual terms, we reviewed contractual evidence to understand how the specific terms were captured and the appropriate revenue recognition policies applied.
We then performed a sample test of sales recognised either side of the year end to substantiate that the appropriate terms of the relevant contracts had been satisfied and that the risks and rewards associated with the contract had passed to the customer.
We used external evidence such as shipping documentation or client acceptance where available, to confirm that revenue had been recognised in the appropriate period.
Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets We challenged the assumptions used by management within their arising on historical acquisitions, due to annual impairment assessment through benchmarking to independently managements assertions regarding their available data, peer group analysis, and our understanding of the recoverable amount.
There are a number of secured orders underpinning the Groups cash flow forecasts.
In key judgments in determining the recoverable addition, valuation specialists within the audit team provided additional amount, including growth rates in future cash challenge over the discount rate applied to these cash flows through flow forecasts and discount rates applied to the use of external confirmation and benchmarking.
the assumptions within managements annual impairment assessment, we checked the arithmetical accuracy of the impairment model using these assumptions to corroborate their conclusions with respect to the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles.
Taxation, specifically where provisions are made We evaluated the appropriateness of managements assumptions and in respect of judgments taken in the various tax estimates in their assessment and valuation of the tax risks within the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
These Group, including corroboration with correspondence on the status of tax provisions are judgmental as a result of their compliance and tax audits in the various jurisdictions in which the Group nature and technical complexity.
operates, benchmarking against our assessment of the range of potential outcomes in respect of the uncertain tax treatments adopted, involving tax specialists within the audit team to provide detailed knowledge and expertise in assessing tax treatments in certain jurisdictions.
co. uk 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 90 Independent auditor's report to the members of Chemring Group PLC RISk HOw THE SCOPE Of OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISk Appropriateness and completeness of We recalculated and challenged management's estimates for the judgmental provisions made by management in provisions in conjunction with our understanding of the potential liability respect of obsolete inventory, product failures, as set out in contract terms.
and legal claims in respect of the outcome of In respect of provisions held for obsolete inventory, we attended these issues.
stockcounts and analysed the nature, ageing and turnover of inventory in order to identify potentially obsolete goods.
We also considered the movement of inventory at risk by reference to post yearend usage or secured orders.
We also challenged the quantum of managements provision using these findings.
For product failures, we challenged the level of provisioning by verifying the actual failure costs incurred to date and the products in circulation subject to customer dispute using external evidence, such as correspondence with third parties.
In response to legal risks, we circularised the Group's external legal advisers and reviewed legal costs incurred in the year to confirm the completeness of legal cases to which the Group is party.
Through external evidence including submitted legal advice and discussion with management, we sought to corroborate the basis for managements expectations over likely outcomes and their subsequent quantification of the related provisions.
Appropriateness of the going concern principle.
We reviewed management's consideration of the adoption of the going concern principle with particular focus on the impact of the changes to the Group's strategy.
Our work included challenging management's forecasts, which are also used to support their impairment review, by assessing the accuracy of previous forecasts, and comparing the shortterm forecasts against trading since the balance sheet date.
In light of this we considered the extent of working capital headroom, covenant compliance and the availability and quantum of mitigating actions to address potential sensitivity scenarios for a period of twelve months from the signing of the financial statements.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 62.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial s Financial st tat atemen ement ts s Other in Other inf formation ormation 91 We determined materiality for the Group to be 5 million, which is below Our application of materiality 10% of underlying pretax profit, and below 2% of equity.
Pretax profit has been normalised to align our materiality to the reported results that are of interest to the users of the financial statements.
This has been achieved by removing amortisation of intangible assets and other volatile nonunderlying items, namely: acquisition and disposal related costs and business restructuring and incident costs, impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, impairment of assets held for sale and gains on fair value movements on derivative financial instruments.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 100,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identify when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group An overview of the scope of and its environment, including Groupwide controls, and assessing our audit the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at eleven of the Groups seventeen principal business units which were subject to a full audit.
In addition, the remaining six business units were subject to an audit of specific account transactions and account balances, where the extent of our testing was focused on our Group audit risks and our assessment of the risk of material misstatement.
The seventeen locations represent the principal business units within the Groups reportable segments and account for 94% of the Groups net assets, 96% of the Groups revenue and 98% of the Groups profit before tax.
They also provided an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the seventeen units was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity, which were lower than Group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team follows a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the significant overseas components locations at least once every three years.
Every year, regardless of whether we have visited or not, we include the component audit partner and other senior members of the component audit team in our team briefing, direct the scope of their work for the purposes of our Group audit, discuss their risk assessment and review documentation of the findings from their work.
co. uk 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 92 Independent auditor's report to the members of Chemring Group PLC In our opinion: Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been Act 2006 properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON wHICH wE ARE REqUIRED TO REPORT By EXCEPTION Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our Adequacy of explanations opinion: received and accounting records we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, in our Directors remuneration opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate governance report corporate governance report relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are Our duty to read other required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual information in the annual report report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial s Financial st tat atemen ement ts s Other in Other inf formation ormation 93 As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, Respective responsibilities of the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial directors and auditor statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in Scope of the audit of the the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Anna Marks Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, UK 23 January 2014 www.
