Financial statements and other inFormation report of the auditor INdEPENdENT AUdITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBEd By THE COMPANIES BRITISH LANd COMPANy PLC ACT 2006 We have audited the parent company financial statements of the British in our opinion: land company Plc for the year ended 31 march 2013 which comprise the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been the parent company balance sheet, and the related notes a to K. the properly prepared in accordance with the companies act 2006: and financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom accounting standards United the information given in the directors report for the financial year Kingdom Generally accepted accounting Practice.
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
this report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with chapter 3 of Part 16 of the companies act 2006. our MATTERS ON wHICH wE ARE REqUIREd TO REPORT By ExCEPTION audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors companies act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: report and for no other purpose.
to the fullest extent permitted by law, adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, from branches not visited by us: or for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF dIRECTORS ANd AUdITOR remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the as explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, accounting records and returns: or the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair not made: or view.
our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and we have not received all the information and explanations we require international standards on auditing UK and ireland.
those standards for our audit.
require us to comply with the auditing Practices Boards ethical standards for auditors.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of SCOPE OF THE AUdIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the British land company Plc for the year ended 31 march 2013. an audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
this includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate Richard Muschamp Senior statutory auditor to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently for and on behalf of deloitte LLP applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant chartered accountants and statutory auditor accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall london, United Kingdom presentation of the financial statements.
in addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report 13 may 2013 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
if we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 march 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally accepted accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the companies act 2006.
162 the British land company Plc annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements and other information
