Financial statements and other inFormation report of the auditor INdEPENdENT AUdITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE OPINION ON OTHER MATTER PRESCRIBEd By THE COMPANIES BRITISH LANd COMPANy PLC ACT 2006 We have audited the Group financial statements of the British land in our opinion the information given in the directors report for the company Plc for the year ended 31 march 2013 which comprise the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive is consistent with the Group financial statements.
income, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of cash flows, consolidated statement of changes in equity, and the related notes MATTERS ON wHICH wE ARE REqUIREd TO REPORT By ExCEPTION 1 to 26. the financial reporting framework that has been applied in their We have nothing to report in respect of the following: preparation is applicable law and international Financial reporting Under the companies act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our standards iFrss as adopted by the european Union.
opinion: this report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are accordance with chapter 3 of Part 16 of the companies act 2006. our not made: or audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys we have not received all the information and explanations we require members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors for our audit.
report and for no other purpose.
to the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company Under the listing rules we are required to review: and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the directors statement, contained within the corporate Governance section, in relation to going concern: RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF dIRECTORS ANd AUdITOR the part of the corporate Governance statement relating to the as explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK corporate the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial Governance code specified for our review: and statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on financial statements in accordance with applicable law and international directors remuneration.
standards on auditing UK and ireland.
those standards require us to comply with the auditing Practices Boards ethical standards OTHER MATTER for auditors.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of the British land company Plc for the year ended 31 march 2013 SCOPE OF THE AUdIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is an audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures described as having been audited.
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
this includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Richard Muschamp Senior statutory auditor by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
for and on behalf of deloitte LLP in addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information chartered accountants and statutory auditor in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the london, United Kingdom audited financial statements.
if we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 13 may 2013 for our report.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 march 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with iFrss as adopted by the european Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the companies act 2006 and article 4 of the ias regulation.
150 the British land company Plc annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements and other information
