INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors report to the members Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors of Derwent London plc As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Opinion on financial statements of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give In our opinion: a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with the financial statements give a true and fair view of the applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and state of the Groups and the parent Companys affairs as Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Scope of the audit of the financial statements in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union: A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the FRCs website at the parent Company financial statements have been properly www.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the Our assessment of risks of material misstatement provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The following risks have had the greatest impact on our audit the financial statements have been prepared in accordance strategy and scope: with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, the assessment of the carrying value of investment property.
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the The Group uses the valuation carried out by independent IAS Regulation.
valuers as the fair value of its property portfolio.
The valuation is based upon assumptions including future rental income, The financial statements of Derwent London plc for the year anticipated maintenance costs, future development costs ended 31 December 2013 comprise the Group income and the appropriate discount rate.
The valuers also make statement, Group statement of comprehensive income, reference to market evidence of transaction prices for Group and parent Company balance sheets, Group and similar properties: parent Company statements of changes in equity, Group and parent Company cash flow statements and the related notes.
revenue recognition, which is a presumed fraud risk under The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland.
Rental preparation is applicable law and International Financial income is recognised on a straight line basis over the lease Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union term.
The most significant accounting estimate concerning and, as regards the parent Company financial statements, revenue recognition is managements assessment of the as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies lease term over which incentives are recognised.
The lease Act 2006. term is the non-cancellable period for which a lessee has contracted to lease a property together with any further terms This report is made solely to the Companys members, for which a lessee has an option to continue to lease the as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the property, with or without further payment, when at the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so inception of the lease it is reasonably certain that a lessee that we might state to the Companys members those matters will exercise the option.
Management assess the most we are required to state to them in an Auditors report and for no appropriate period over which to recognise revenue based other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do on their assessment of lease terms and whether lessees will not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the exercise break options.
Management also calculate the fair Company and the Companys members as a body, for our value of amounts recoverable from property disposals where audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
those amounts are variable depending on future overage calculations.
These fair values are sensitive to assumptions around future sales prices, costs and discount rates: and compliance with the real estate investment trust REIT taxation regime, exempting the Group from tax on both rental profits and chargeable gains.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2013 115 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Our application of materiality An overview of the scope of our audit We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and The way in which we scoped our response to the risks identified performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of above was as follows: misstatements.
For planning, we consider materiality to be the Carrying value of investment property magnitude by which misstatements, including omissions, could influence the economic decisions of reasonable users that are We evaluated the competence, capability and objectivity of taken on the basis of the financial statements.
In order to the external valuer which included making inquiries regarding reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that any interests and relationships that may have created a threat to misstatements exceed materiality, we use a lower materiality the external valuers objectivity.
We met with the external level, performance materiality, to determine the extent of testing valuer to discuss their approach to the valuation and their needed.
Importantly, misstatements below these levels will not findings and we reviewed managements instructions to the necessarily be evaluated as immaterial as we also take account external valuer and determined whether there were any of the nature of identified misstatements, and the particular limitations of scope or restrictions placed upon their work.
circumstances of their occurrence, when evaluating their effect We reviewed the underlying data provided to the external on the financial statements as a whole.
valuer and agreed a sample of data back to source documentation, including title deeds and tenancy We determined planning materiality for the financial statements agreements.
as a whole to be 40,000,000 which reflects the underlying level of precision within the valuation of the investment property We established our own range of expectations for the portfolio.
International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland also changes in the valuation of investment property based on allow the Auditor to set a lower materiality for particular classes externally available metrics, comparable organisations and of transaction, balances or disclosures for which misstatements wider economic and commercial factors.
We considered of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as whether the overall movement in the investment property a whole could reasonably be expected to influence the valuation indicated potential management bias to either economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial overstate or understate the valuation.
In this context, we set a lower level of materiality of movement of all properties against our own expectation and 5,000,000 to apply to those classes of transactions and challenged those valuations which fell outside of our range of balances which impact on pre-tax earnings excluding expectation.
Explanations received from the external valuer revaluation surpluses and deficits.
On the basis of our risk and management supporting these valuations were assessment, together with our assessment of the Groups corroborated to third party evidence where appropriate.
control environment, our judgement is that performance We reviewed and challenged management initiated materiality for the financial statements should be 75% of adjustments to the valuations and the appropriateness of planning materiality, namely 30,000,000 for the financial these changes with the external valuer.
We ensured that any statements as a whole and 3,750,000 for items affecting management initiated changes to the valuation were based adjusted pre-tax earnings.
We agreed with the Audit Committee on relevant matters of fact and corroborated the basis of that we would report to the Committee all individual audit these changes.
We assessed the process adopted by the differences in excess of 400,000, as well as those individually Board and Audit Committee in meeting with the externals in excess of 50,000 where the difference affected adjusted valuer and reviewing and approving the year end valuation.
We also agreed to report differences below In order to further assess the risk of bias in the valuations, these thresholds that, in our view, warranted reporting on we performed a retrospective review of property disposals qualitative grounds.
and compared prices achieved with the most recent valuation.
Where significant realised gains were achieved we determined why such differences arose, considered the impact on the year end valuation and corroborated those explanations received.
116 Governance Revenue recognition In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired We carried out testing relating to controls over revenue during the audit and the directors statement that they consider recognition and undertook analytical and other substantive the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and testing over rental income including reviewing underlying whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters lease documentation.
We reviewed all leases where that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we management had determined that it was likely that tenants consider should have been disclosed.
would exercise break options, thereby amortising the incentive to the lease break point.
For each such lease we Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to challenged the determination and ensured that it was based you if, in our opinion: upon a reasonable assessment of the characteristics of the adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns tenant and lease.
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches We identified and challenged those assumptions that had the not visited by us: or greatest affect on the fair value of the amounts recoverable the financial statements and the part of the report of the from previous property disposals under overage agreements Remuneration Committee to be audited are not in agreement and re-performed the calculations made by the Directors.
with the accounting records and returns: or REIT compliance certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We carried out testing relating to the effectiveness of controls we have not received all the information and explanations we over continuing REIT compliance and conducted tests to require for our audit.
detect any breach of the Groups REIT status.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The Audit Committees consideration of these judgements is set out on pages 113 and 114. the Directors statement, set out on page 88, in relation to going concern: and Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the In our opinion: Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the strategic report and Directors RICHARD KELLY report or the financial year for which the financial statements SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor Matters on which we are required to report by exception 55 Baker Street Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to London W1U 7EU you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: United Kingdom 27 February 2014 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Following pages: 1-2 Stephen Street W1 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2013 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRONG FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LEVELS LEVELS OF INVESTMENT
