James Fisher and Sons plc Independent auditors report To the members of James Fisher and Sons plc only expected costs incurred.
Revenue recognition is considered Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit a significant audit risk due to the element of estimation in the 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified calculation of contract revenues.
We have audited the financial statements of James Fisher and Sons plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 48 to Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, 105.
In our opinion: testing the Groups internal controls over revenue.
Analytical and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the substantive audit procedures were undertaken at subsidiary Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December level and included the analysis of monthly revenue trends, the 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: assessment of sales around the year end for inclusion of the relevant transaction in the appropriate period and the testing the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in of cash received after the year end.
We reviewed the terms accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as of significant sales contracts when assessing the revenue adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : recognition basis applied by the Group.
When assessing the stage of completion on contracts we agreed amounts recognised the Parent Company financial statements have been properly to confirmatory evidence on a sample basis.
This included the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as agreement of actual costs incurred to invoice and the assessment applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act of any judgements applied in the projection of total contract costs 2006: and including any contingency provisions.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Retirement benefit obligations 23.1m Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Refer to page 28 Audit Committee report, page 63 accounting policy and pages 85 and 91 financial disclosures 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the The risk: Significant estimates are made in valuing the Groups risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our post-retirement defined benefit schemes and small changes in audit were as follows: assumptions and estimates used to value the Groups net pension deficit would have a significant effect on the results and financial Goodwill 104.2m position of the Group.
For this reason it is one of the judgemental Refer to page 28 Audit Committee report, page 60 accounting areas our audit is focused on.
policy and page 76 financial disclosures Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, among The risk: The Group remains acquisitive and an impairment others, testing the reasonableness of the Groups net defined assessment of goodwill is carried out annually.
The Group benefit liability calculations and, with the support of our own performs the review at an individual cash generating unit CGU actuarial specialists, we challenged the key actuarial assumptions level using value in use models.
Due to the inherent uncertainty applied, being the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality life involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which expectancy and compared key assumptions to independently are the basis of the assessment of recoverability, this is one of the derived data.
We agreed asset values to direct confirmations from key judgmental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficits to Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, these assumptions.
testing the principles and integrity of the models used, comparison of the key assumptions to external data as well as Operating in overseas jurisdictions with uncertain our own assessments in relation to key inputs such as revenue legislation growth, gross margin assumptions, cost inflation and long term Refer to page 28 Audit Committee report growth rates.
We considered the historical accuracy of the Groups growth assumptions and used external data and our own The risk: The Group is multinational and is developing its valuation specialists when assessing the discount rate applied.
operations in a number of emerging markets.
Operating in We considered the Groups market capitalisation and compared these territories presents increased contractual, operational and that with a market valuation derived from the forecasts used financial risks due to the need to comply with potentially uncertain in the impairment calculations, assessed the potential risk of regulatory and legislative environments, including legislation management bias in the calculations and critically assessed the relating to foreign exchange and tax.
Breaches of compliance sensitivities applied by the Group.
We also assessed whether the or inappropriate assumptions over provisioning for the uncertain Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the legislation could have a significant effect on the results and impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflects financial position of the Group and is one of the judgemental areas the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Revenue 413.7m Our response: In response to this, our audits included the Refer to page 28 Audit Committee report, page 61 accounting involvement of local specialists where appropriate to analyse policy and page 69 financial disclosures and challenge the assumptions used to determine provisions for legal and tax matters based on their knowledge and experience The risk: Revenue is recognised from the provision of goods and of local regulations and practices.
We considered the exposure services by the Group and its subsidiaries when the significant to breaches of legislation by making appropriate enquiry of the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer.
Where Group in relation to compliance with laws and regulations and services rendered are provided through long term contracts the existence and status of any significant legal matters.
We also and are not completed at the balance sheet date, revenue reviewed the compliance logs and reports returned by overseas is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the locations to identify actual and potential non-compliance with laws transaction measured by reference to the proportion of total and regulations, both those specific to the Groups business and 46 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc those relating to the conduct of the business generally.
Where Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based significant matters were identified we obtained confirmations from on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified the Groups legal counsel.
We reviewed correspondence where other information in the annual report that contains a material available with the local tax authorities and using our experience inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, of local practices and court interpretations we assessed the a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
assumptions made by management in arriving at the tax provision In particular, we are required to report to you if: or, where there are material local indirect taxes, contract results.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set statement that they consider that the annual report and financial at 2.0m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable of group profit before taxation, which we consider to be one of the and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the financial performance of the Group.
Materiality represents 4.8% of PBT and 4.3% of PBT adjusted for items disclosed separately on the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address the face of the income statement.
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report all corrected and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a our opinion: value in excess of 0.1m, in addition to other audit misstatements adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been qualitative grounds.
received from branches not visited by us: or In determining the key reporting components at which to conduct the parent company financial statements and the part of the full scope audits or specified procedures we considered not only the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement financial size of individual components operations but also the level with the accounting records and returns: or of risk presented by, for example, the nature, complexity, maturity or location of those operations.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are performed by the Group audit team at the key reporting components not made: or in the UK and by component auditors in the following countries: we have not received all the information and explanations we UK, Norway, Angola and the United Arab Emirates.
Audit work in require for our audit.
these countries was a combination of controls and substantive work determined by our assessment of the strength of internal controls Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: within each business.
In addition, specified audit procedures for Group the Directors statement, set out on page 44, in relation to going reporting purposes, including the attendance at inventory counts and concern: desktop review work, were performed by Group and component auditors in the UK, Brazil, Singapore, Malaysia, Australia and China.
the part of the Corporate governance report on pages 23 to 26 These audit procedures covered 96% of total Group revenue: 90% of relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions Group profit before taxation: and 90% of total Group assets.
of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the Group were all performed to materiality We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
levels set by, or agreed with, the Group audit team.
These materiality Scope of report and responsibilities levels were set individually for each component and ranged from As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement 0.2m to 1.0m.
set out on page 45, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a locations.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information at www.
This report is made solely required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
Telephone to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important meetings were also held with the auditors at the majority of locations explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published that were not physically visited.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work 2006 is unmodified we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
In our opinion: David Bills Senior Statutory Auditor the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Chartered Accountants the information given in the Strategic report and Directors St James Square report for the financial year for which the financial statements are Manchester prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
M2 6DS 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we 3 March 2014 are required to report by exception 47
