Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Opinion on financial statements Great Portland Estates plc In our opinion: We have audited the financial statements of Great Portland the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Estates for the year ended 31 March 2013 which comprise of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2013 and of the Groups the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of profit for the year then ended: Comprehensive Income, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Statement of Cash Flows, the Group Statements of Changes accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and in Equity and the related notes 1 to 24.
The financial reporting the financial statements have been prepared in accordance framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent IAS Regulation.
company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, as issued by the IASB in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as state to the Companys members those matters we are required adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this as issued by the IASB.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Companies Act 2006 As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true is consistent with the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law Matters on which we are required to report and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
by exception Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Scope of the audit of the financial statements company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and received from branches not visited by us: or disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the parent company financial statements and the part of the reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: or This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law companys circumstances and have been consistently applied are not made: or and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant we have not received all the information and explanations we accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall require for our audit.
presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual Other Matter report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited We have reported separately on the parent company financial financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent statements of Great Portland Estates plc for the year ended material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 31 March 2013 and on the information provided in the Directors implications for our report.
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Claire Faulkner Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 22 May 2013 Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 93
