FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAMMERSON PLC notes A to L for the parent company financial statements.
The financial DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HAMMERSON PLC We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the In our opinion: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in GOING CONCERN International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the performance of the business and the position of the Company and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, as adopted by the European Union: Responsibilities Statement contained on page 106 that the Group to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties the parent company financial statements have been properly is a going concern.
We confirm that: with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United that they face: and prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company The Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are Accounting Practice: and we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, is appropriate: and the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to By order of the Board The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income are required to: continue as a going concern.
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, David Atkins Chief Executive Officer Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue Make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable Statement, the Analysis of Movement in Net Debt and the related as a going concern.
and prudent: 14 February 2014 notes 1 to 28 for the consolidated financial statements and the related State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT in the financial statements: and Timon Drakesmith Chief Financial Officer The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 14 February 2014 resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk In preparing the group financial statements, International Accounting Hammerson plc Hammerson owns a portfolio of retail property We assessed managements process for reviewing and challenging the work of the external Standard 1 requires that Directors: assets.
The valuation of the portfolio including a number of valuer and development appraisals: development properties is a significant judgement area and is We met with the external valuers of the portfolio to discuss and challenge the valuation Properly select and apply accounting policies: underpinned by a number of assumptions.
process, performance of the portfolio and significant assumptions and critical judgement Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner The Group uses professionally qualified external valuers to fair areas, including future lease income and yields: that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable value the Groups portfolio at six-monthly intervals.
The portfolio We assessed the competence, independence and integrity of the external valuer: and information: excluding development properties is valued by the investment We performed audit procedures to assess the integrity of information provided to the method of valuation with development properties valued by the Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific independent valuer including agreement on a sample basis back to actual leases.
same methodology with a deduction for all costs necessary to requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand Please see note 12 of the Financial Statements.
complete the development together with an allowance for the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions remaining risk.
on the entity's financial position and financial performance: and Hammerson plc has undertaken a number of acquisitions and We challenged the fair value of consideration by reference to acquisition or disposal Make an assessment of the Company's ability to continue as a disposals during the year including acquiring an additional share in agreements and other external evidence: going concern.
The Group also completed the We considered the date at which the transactions completed based on the acquisition The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting disposal of its office property portfolio.
or disposal agreements and considered the impact of these transactions on records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys revenue recognition: transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the We considered the adequacy of the disclosure of the transactions in the financial statements.
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Hammersons interest in Value Retail is equity accounted as an We planned the scope of the audit and instructed the auditors of Value Retail accordingly.
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
There is a risk in relation to the valuation attributed to We met with the auditors, challenged the audit work undertaken and reviewed the reporting also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Companys investment in Value Retail.
received, requesting additional information as necessary: hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection We audited equity and debt injections made by Hammerson during the year via agreement of fraud and other irregularities.
to original documentation: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of We met with Value Retail management and the external valuers of the Value Retail property the corporate and financial information included on the Companys portfolio to discuss and challenge the valuation assumptions and critical judgement areas.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation We also challenged the judgements taken by Hammerson.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Please see note 14 of the Financial Statements.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 69.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
106 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com 107 107 107 F FINANCIAL INANCIAL S ST TAA TTEMENT EMENTS S INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAMMERSON PLC CONTINUED OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANIES ACT 2006 AUDITOR We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 2006: and statements in accordance with applicable law and International We determined materiality for the Group to be 30 million which the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require is below 1% of shareholders equity.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA Adjusted Profit Before Tax for Auditors.
as a critical performance measure for the Group and we applied a This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY lower threshold of 6.5 million based on 5% of that measure for testing accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
EXCEPTION of all balances impacting that measure, primarily being income Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the statement balances with the exception of fair value movements Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Companys members those matters we are required to state to them on investment and development property.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent our opinion: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.6 million, as well as other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for we have not received all the information and explanations we differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
require for our audit: or on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received presentation of the financial statements.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and from branches not visited by us: or disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT assurance that the financial statements are free from material the accounting records and returns.
Our group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work of three misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
significant components being the UK, France and Value Retail.
These assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to three components together comprise c99% of total group net assets.
the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been Directors remuneration The UK and French components were subject to a full scope audit, consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our while Value Retail is subject to an audit of specified account balances.
of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Our audit work at each of these components was executed at levels all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have of materiality applicable to each component, which in all instances identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements nothing to report arising from these matters.
was lower than Group materiality.
The group audit team conduct a and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect programme of planned visits designed so that the Senior Statutory Corporate Governance Statement based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by Auditor visits each of the key components at least once a year, in Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any order that appropriate oversight and guidance is provided to Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the component auditors.
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance implications for our report.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
We have obtained an understanding of the Groups system of internal controls and undertaken a combination of procedures, all of which are OUR DUTY TO READ OTHER INFORMATION IN THE designed to target the Groups identified risks of material misstatement ANNUAL REPORT in the most effective manner possible.
Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Annual Report is: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or 14 February 2014 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
108 108 108 Hammerson plc Annual R Hammerson plc Annual Re epor portt 2 2013 013 www.
com 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAMMERSON PLC CONTINUED OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANIES ACT 2006 AUDITOR We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has or influenced.
108 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 www.
