Section 2 88 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Hansteen Holdings PLC of Hansteen Holdings PLC year then ended: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within the strategic report that the Group is a going concern.
We and doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 89 Our assessment of risks of The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that material misstatement Investment property valuation Investment properties are held at market value on the balance sheet.
The market values are calculated by managements third party valuers using information provided by management in addition to professional judgement about market data and consulted with our own property valuation specialists.
also considered the value realised on disposed properties compared to previous valuations.
tenancy schedules and evaluating occupancy through physical inspection Financing of external debt with a number in their going concern assessment and covenant compliance forecasts including minimum loan to value ratios.
Compliance with these the year ended 31 December 2013. banking covenants at the balance sheet date and forecast compliance sensitivity analysis to determine the extent of change in those assumptions for future periods are integral to managements assessment of going concern along with forecast business performance.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Section 2 90 Financial Statements The Group holds a number of interest rate and foreign exchange sample of the valuations and considered whether the disclosures made in in addition to the convertible debt instrument issued during the Bonds was correct and whether the liability was appropriately presented year which contains embedded derivatives.
Accounting for the market prices and considered trading activity of the bonds.
particularly in the valuation and presentation of the Convertible Bond.
Taxation The Group is a Real Estate assessment of current and forecast REIT compliance.
Our challenge of managements assumptions included performing a sensitivity analysis REIT conditions are not met.
In addition: Group gives rise to complexities around transfer pricing: estimates in relation to the likelihood of generating suitable future the recognition of deferred tax described in note 20 by considering the performance of the companies for assets: and the year and performing sensitivity analysis on the business forecasts.
the judgements made in assessing tax exposures by reviewing correspondence with tax authorities and performing recalculations for HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 91 transactions The nature of the Groups operations give rise to nonthe income statement.
recurring transactions which can and checked whether they were recorded in the correct period.
Where judgement had been applied by management in the recognition or or bargain purchases where a property has been acquired valuations or third party correspondence.
at below market value and surrender premia.
Such items could be misleading in the movements with the external valuers.
not appropriately recognised in the correct period particularly where a transaction spans the reporting date and presented correctly particularly in respect of the impact on non-statutory performance measures.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 104. matters.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Section 2 92 Financial Statements Our application of materiality statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
of total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent.
We applied a lower threshold of 1.8 million for testing of all equity attributable to equity holders of the parent and below 5% of Normalised We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the statements or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 93 An overview of the scope of our Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its audit misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Our Group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work in the United The components subject to a full audit represent the principal business units within the Groups reportable segments and account for 96% of the Groups assets.
Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each component which were lower than group materiality.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that either the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the Groups principal components audited by the Group audit team.
In years when we do not Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team participated in all of the close meetings of the Groups principal business units.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Section 2 94 Financial Statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records opinion: our audit: or or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.. Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report statements: or our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider inconsistencies or misleading statements.
HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 95 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys have formed.
Darren Longley Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Reading, United Kingdom 10 March 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
