104 Accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Intu Properties plc Independent auditors report to the Members of Intu Properties plc company registration number 3685527 Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements, which are prepared by Intu Properties plc, comprise: the Group consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2013: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2013 Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality and scope We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 82 million.
In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to the carrying value of the Groups assets, acknowledging that the primary measurement attribute of the Group is the carrying value of investment property.
Our overall materiality figure represents 1 per cent of total assets.
We set a specific materiality level of 7 million for rental income and expenses.
In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to underlying profit before tax and associates acknowledging that this is a secondary measurement attribute of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 8 million 1 million in relation to rental income and expenses as well as misstatements below these amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
The Group is structured as a single reporting unit so the whole business was subject to the same audit scope.
In establishing the overall approach to our audit, we assessed the risk of material misstatement, taking into account the nature, likelihood and potential magnitude of any misstatement.
Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 105 Accounts In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of particular audit focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 107 to 113.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of Investment Properties We considered whether, as a whole, the properties held by the Group were valued on a consistent basis and using appropriate methods.
The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is inherently subjective due to, among other factors, the We performed testing over data provided by the Group to the external valuers, including individual nature of each property, its location and the lease data.
expected future rental revenues for that particular We also assessed the controls over the external valuation process and met with the property.
The assumptions on which the property external valuers to understand and challenge their assumptions and conclusions.
values are based include matters such as the tenure and tenancy details for the properties, prevailing market yields and comparable market transactions.
Revaluation of investment and development properties is a significant risk in our audit.
Revenue recognition We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls over the completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue recognised in the financial statements ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in and tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify unusual or irregular revenue recognition because of the pressure items.
management may feel to achieve the planned results.
Our tests also include matching standard revenue transactions from inception through to the year end accounts receivable balance or cash.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested journal entries.
Going concern The main areas of focus in our review were the debt maturity profile and available liquidity, as set out in the Groups latest Board approved forecasts.
This was considered to be an area of audit focus due to the Groups recent financing activities.
We evaluated the key judgements within the forecast, including property valuations and rental income levels.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups financing structure, including forecast compliance with financial covenants, and assessed the sensitivity of the Directors calculations to changes in key inputs, including property valuations and rental income.
Our conclusion on going concern is below.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 114, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Companys financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
co. uk 106 Accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Intu Properties plc continued Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 69 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On pages 75 to 76, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 102, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group and Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Ranjan Sriskandan Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 28 February 2014 Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
