Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cobham plc Report on the Group Financial Statements Overview of our audit approach Our opinion Materiality In our opinion the Group Financial Statements defined below: We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually flows for the year then ended: and on the financial statements as a whole.
Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality European Union: and for the Group Financial Statements as a whole to be 14m which Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements is approximately 5% of underlying profit before taxation.
We of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
used underlying profit before taxation to exclude amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations and to This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remove the effect of volatility such as exceptional costs.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them What we have audited misstatements identified during our audit above 0.5m as well as The Group Financial Statements, which are prepared by Cobham plc, misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted comprise: reporting for qualitative reasons.
The Consolidated Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2013: Overview of the scope of our audit The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2013: The Group is structured along four reported segments, being The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Cash Aerospace and Security, Defence Systems, Mission Systems and Flow Statement for the year then ended: and Aviation Services.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation The notes to the Group Financial Statements, which include of 59 reporting units within these segments, comprising the Groups a summary of significant accounting policies and other operating businesses and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or subsidiary European Union.
audit teams from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by subsidiary audit Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements.
whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are a basis for our opinion on the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
Accordingly, of the Groups 59 reporting units, we identified 22 What an audit of Financial Statements involves which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards information, either due to their size, their risk characteristics or on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves because some are covered on a rotational basis over a two or three obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial year cycle.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial transactions were performed at a further 15 reporting units.
Audit statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by procedures were performed at principal manufacturing locations, fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: both significant Aviation Services reporting units and new Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups acquisitions in the year.
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Where subsidiary audit teams performed work at the reporting unit The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made level on behalf of the Group audit team, this work was performed to by the Directors: and lower materiality levels appropriate to the individual units which are The overall presentation of the financial statements.
typically subject to local audit requirements.
These materiality levels ranged from 0.7m to 4.5m.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the The reporting units in scope covered 92% of the Groups underlying audited Group Financial Statements and to identify any information profit before taxation and 89% of the Groups revenue.
This, together that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group Financial of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent Statements as a whole.
material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
70 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 46.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment The Group has significant goodwill and intangible In evaluating whether any impairment was necessary to the carrying value of asset balances arising from acquisitions.
The goodwill and intangible assets, our audit work involved obtaining evidence assessment Directors formally assess the carrying value regarding its recoverable amount and how it compared to the amount at of these assets on an annual basis.
which it is currently recorded.
We evaluated the Directors future cash flow forecasts, including comparing them with the latest Board approved strategic We focused on this area because it involves plans and looked at historic performance.
We challenged the Directors key complex and subjective judgements by the assumptions within these plans, including the discount rate and growth rates.
Directors about the future results of the We also performed sensitivity analysis around those key assumptions.
As a result of the Directors assessment, ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually an impairment charge of 63m was recorded: see or collectively would be required for the asset to be impaired, we considered note 11 of the Group Financial Statements.
the likelihood of such movement in those key assumptions arising.
For the asset impaired in the year we checked the calculation of the impairment charge.
Accounting The Group has a number of significant, complex We have reviewed the basis of profit recognition on the Groups key development and production contracts which contracts.
We evaluated the accounting in the context of the Group for contract span more than one accounting period.
accounting policies and contract terms.
profitability, including the We focused on this area as the assessment We have assessed the design of controls in place over key contracts, recognition of contract performance over a long duration including the adequacy and frequency of programme reviews performed is often subjective and dependent upon engineering by management.
of contract assessments as well as financial estimates.
loss provisions We examined the assumptions behind estimated costs to complete, challenging the reasonableness of these in light of supporting evidence.
We evaluated the reasonableness of estimated revenue for customer claims submitted to recover additional costs incurred, including considering legal advice received where appropriate.
Revenue ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of We tested manual journals posted to revenue to check whether there was fraud in relation to revenue recognition as most any indication of fraud.
recognition businesses, including the Group, face this risk.
We tested the timing of revenue recognition of transactions close to the We focused on cut-off around the year-end period end to establish whether they were recorded in the correct period.
because material revenue transactions can occur close to that date and the recognition of We tested the basis of revenue recognition on key development contracts, significant milestones on development contracts evaluating the revenue recognised against contract terms and evidence which often involve some judgement surrounding of customer acceptance of specific milestones reached.
the achievement of those milestones.
Risk of ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this, We assessed the overall control environment of the Group.
because management in all businesses are in management a position of authority that means they can We tested manual journal entries.
We examined the significant accounting override override internal controls established to prevent estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of internal fraud or error.
of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement controls due to fraud.
We also incorporated an element of unpredictability into our testing plans.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 Independent Auditors Report continued Going concern Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the Directors Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you, statement, set out on page 27, in relation to going concern.
We if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted prepared by the Parent Company.
We have no exceptions to report in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that arising from this responsibility.
it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part We have nothing to report having performed our review.
of our audit, we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future On page 67 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 model and strategy.
On page 46, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the In our opinion: Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under Report for the financial year for which the Group Financial ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Statements are prepared is consistent with the Group Financial The statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent Statements: and with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of The information given in the Corporate Governance Report performing our audit: or set out on pages 38 to 47 in the Annual Report with respect to The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the internal control and risk management systems and about share Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other matters on which we are required to report We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
by exception Adequacy of information and explanations received Other information in the Annual Report Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited to report arising from this responsibility.
Group Financial Statements: or Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Directors remuneration inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you in the course of performing our audit: or if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration Is otherwise misleading.
specified by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the report to We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
72 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 67, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Stuart Watson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 5 March 2014 www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73
