Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of LondonMetric Property Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies LondonMetric Property Plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 Act 2006 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for Balance Sheet, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the financial year for which the Group financial statements are the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Matters on which we are required to report by exception Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report This report is made solely to the Companys members, to you if, in our opinion: as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so by law are not made: or that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for we have not received all the information and explanations no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do we require for our audit.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Directors statement in relation to going concern: the part of the corporate governance statement relating to Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the and preparation of the Group financial statements and for being certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility on Directors remuneration.
is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Other matters International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing financial statements of LondonMetric Property Plc for the year Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
ended 31 March 2013 and on the information in the Directors Scope of the audit of the financial statements remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at David Eagle www.
Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor Opinion on financial statements London In our opinion the Group financial statements: United Kingdom give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs 31 May 2013 as at 31 March 2013 and its loss for the year then ended: BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs and Wales with registered number OC305127.
as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
56 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
