Consolidated financial statements Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Financial statements 73 Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC Our application of materiality Opinion on financial statements of Compass Group PLC We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 54 million In our opinion: which is approximately 5% of pre-tax profit from continuing operations before exceptional items, and below 2% of equity.
We use pre-tax the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September profit from continuing operations before exceptional items to exclude the effect of volatility for example, the European exceptional and 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in goodwill impairment from our determination.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them as adopted by the European Union: all audit differences in excess of 1 million, as well as differences the Parent Company financial statements have been properly below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting on prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted qualitative grounds.
Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work at requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Each of these 23 countries was subject to a full audit.
These 23 countries represent the principal business units within The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the Groups three reportable segments and account for 88% of the the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated Groups revenues, 87% of pre-tax profit from continuing operations and Parent Company balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow before exceptional items and 89% of net assets.
They were also statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 36.
The financial address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Statutory reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the audits were performed at a further 20 countries, which represent a Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by further 5% of the Groups total revenues, 6% of profit before tax and the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been 1% of net assets.
Where possible, the timing of statutory audits is applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements aligned to the full scope timetable, however the performance and is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United outcome from these audits does not impact our overall opinion Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
on the Group financial statements.
Our audit work at the 23 principal countries and the statutory audits were executed at levels of Going concern materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors than Group materiality.
statement on page 44 that the Group is a going concern.
The Group audit team has designed and implemented a rotational We confirm that: country visit programme so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or another senior member of the Group audit team, visits key countries.
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to Those countries covered 75% of Group revenue.
Each year this continue as a going concern which we believe would need to be programme of visits includes the three most significant countries disclosed in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European which comprise 59% of Group revenue.
For the remaining countries Union: and where group audit work is performed but no visit is carried out, the we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern Senior Statutory Auditor has discussed and challenged the key areas basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements of judgement with the lead partner in the current year.
regional briefings, attended by the component auditor from each of the 23 principal countries discussed above, at which we discussed however, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, developments in the Group relevant to our audit, including risk this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue assessment and audit procedures to respond to significant risks.
The way in which we scoped our response to the risks identified Our assessment of risks of material misstatement above was as follows: The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those we evaluated the controls over revenue recognition, including the that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of timing of revenue recognition and the accounting for contractual resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team: terms and one-off items, performed substantive testing, analytical revenue recognition, including the judgement around cut-off of procedures and assessed whether the revenue recognition policies revenue recognition in accordance with contractual terms on adopted complied with IFRSs: multi-year contracts, which impacted reported results: we challenged managements assumptions used in the impairment the assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible model for goodwill and intangible assets, described in note 10 to the assets, particularly in respect of the Groups interests in the UK: and financial statements, including specifically the cash flow projections, the Groups exposure to significant tax risks and the level of the discount rate, perpetuity rates applied to those cash flows, and provisions recognised, given the estimation uncertainty in respect the sensitivities used, particularly in respect of the Groups interests of settlements with tax authorities around the world.
in the UK: and we considered the appropriateness of managements assumptions Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the and estimates in relation to the level of provisions recognised and context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to the allocation of tax charge between continuing and discontinuing express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion operations, and performed substantive testing on significant tax on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the exposures, including sales tax and social taxes.
risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 49.
74 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Companies Act 2006 As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial In our opinion: statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act statements in accordance with applicable law and International 2006: and Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are for Auditors.
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Companys members those matters we are required to state to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest in our opinion: extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility we have not received all the information and explanations we require to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members for our audit: or as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent have formed.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and with the accounting records and returns.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Directors remuneration assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to report arising identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements from these matters or our review.
and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by Corporate governance statement us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys implications for our report.
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial Graham Richardson Senior Statutory Auditor statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP, with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor performing our audit: or London, UK is otherwise misleading.
27 November 2013 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors Statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
