Independent auditors report to the members of Computacenter plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Computacenter plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 71, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks that we believe to have the greatest impact on our audit strategy and scope: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team: accounting for long-term contracts, including the timing of revenue recognition and the assessment of costs to complete on a percentage of completion contract, and loss-making contracts: the presentation of items as exceptional within the income statement: the assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets in respect of the French operating segment: the implementation of the Group ERP system in France during the year: and the recognition and measurement of deferred taxation assets in France and Germany.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 72 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Our application of materiality We applied the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effects of misstatements on our audit and the financial statements.
For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement we define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person relying on the financial statements, would be changed or influenced.
We also determine a level of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.5 million, which is approximately 5% of profit before taxation and non-recurring exceptional items.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that overall performance materiality for the Group should be 75% of materiality, namely approximately 2.6 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach is to ensure that total detected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our materiality of 3.5 million for the financial statements as a whole.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.2 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit focused on three operating locations which were subject to full scope audit for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Together with the Group functions, which were also subject to a full scope audit for the year ending 31 December 2013, these locations represent the principal business units of the Group and account for 98 per cent of the Groups total assets, 96 per cent of the Groups revenue and 93 per cent of the Groups operating profit.
Audits of these locations are performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned.
The Group audit team follows a programme of planned site visits, either meeting with the teams in the component locations or in which the component team attends meetings in the UK.
This is designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor has direct contact with the full scope location teams on a regular basis.
The way in which we scoped our response to the risks identified above was as follows: we carried out testing over those controls supporting contract accounting and the recognition of revenue in respect of contract income.
We read contracts and contract financial models and challenged managements assumptions on costs to complete, where appropriate.
For a sample of contracts, we performed testing of revenue, analytical procedures and assessed whether the disclosure and selection of contract accounting policies complied with IFRS: we considered items classified as exceptional to ensure that they warranted the additional disclosure outlined in IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
we challenged managements assumptions used in the impairment model for Computacenter France, described in note 15 to the financial statements, including specifically the cash flow projections, discount rates, perpetuity rates and sensitivities used: we tested processes and controls, both prior to and subsequent to the implementation of the Group IT system, in France and performed audit procedures on the cutover of data on introduction of an IT system: we considered the appropriateness of managements assumptions and estimates in relation to the likelihood of generating suitable future profits to support the recognition of deferred tax assets described in note 10, challenging those assumptions and considering supporting forecasts and estimates.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 73 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report to the members of Computacenter plc continued Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 50, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Computacenter plc for the year ended 31December 2013 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Nick Powell Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 10 March 2014 Computacenter plc Annual Report and 74 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013
