94 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SEGRO PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF SEGRO PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
GOING CONCERN As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors Statement contained on page 93 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk SEGRO plc owns and manages a portfolio of modern We assessed managements process for reviewing and challenging the work of the warehousing, light industrial and data centre properties.
The valuation of the portfolio is underpinned by a number We met with the external valuers of the portfolio to discuss and challenge the valuation of judgements and assumptions.
process, performance of the portfolio and significant assumptions and critical judgement The Group uses professionally qualified external valuers to areas, including occupancy rates, yields and development milestones.
fair value the Groups portfolio at six-monthly intervals.
The We benchmarked and challenged the key assumptions to external industry data and portfolio excluding development properties is valued by comparable property transactions, in particular the yield.
the investment method of valuation with development We assessed the competence, independence and integrity of the external valuer: and properties valued by the same methodology with a We performed audit procedures to assess the integrity of information provided to the deduction for all costs necessary to complete the independent relating to rental income, purchasers costs and occupancy.
development together with a remaining allowance for Please see note 15 of the Financial Statements.
Accounting for the creation of the SEGRO European We audited the calculation of the gain on disposal of the portfolio into the SEGRO Logistics Partnership joint venture, including the European Logistics Partnership, focusing on and challenging the fair value assessment of the deferred consideration.
determination of the gain on disposal of the portfolio into the venture and the assessment of the nature of the jointly We have reviewed the shareholders agreement for the SEGRO European Logistics controlled entity.
Partnership to verify the underlying accounting treatment as a joint venture, including decision making agreements and deadlock.
Please see note 7 of the Financial Statements.
Revenue recognition, focusing on the accounting treatment As part of our audit of revenue, we focused on any unusual and complex adjustments for unusual or more complex items including lease to revenue, agreeing all items to the underlying leases and recalculating the revenue incentives.
recognised in relation to lease incentives: Please see note 4 of the Financial Statements.
Accounting for significant financing transactions and We audited each significant financing transaction, agreeing the terms of the repayments complex financial instruments, in particular the valuation of and drawdowns to loan agreements.
We used our financial instrument specialists to complex financial instruments.
recalculate the valuation of complex financial instruments using market interest rates.
Please see note 21 of the Financial Statements.
SEGRO plc has undertaken a number of material We confirmed key transaction terms to sale and purchase agreements for all significant acquisitions and disposals in the year, in particular the acquisitions and disposals to verify that key terms were appropriately reflected in any disposals of IQ Winnersh, Equinix and Neckermann.
calculation of profit or loss on disposal.
We considered the date at which the transaction completes based on the acquisition or disposal agreements.
We checked that the transactions are properly reflected and disclosed in the accounts.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 95 The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 71.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 40 million which is approximately 2% of net assets.
In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA Adjusted Profit Before Tax to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group and we applied a lower threshold of 7 million based on 5% of that measure for testing of all balances impacting this financial performance measure, primarily revenue.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.8 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit We perform full scope audits on 5 significant components, including significant Joint Ventures, located within each of the SEGRO plc reportable segments.
These components together comprise circa 97% of total group net assets and 94% of EPRA adjusted profit before tax.
Our audit work at each of these components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each component, which in all instances was lower than Group materiality.
The majority of the work on the key audit risks was performed centrally, including in respect of all valuations, material transactions and financing items.
Outside of the UK, where applicable, the Group audit team conducts a programme of planned visits designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every three years.
We have obtained an understanding of the Groups system of internal controls and undertaken a combination of procedures, all of which are designed to target the Groups identified risks of material misstatement in the most effective manner possible.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors Statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
96 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SEGRO PLC RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
CLAIRE FAULKNER SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 25 February 2014 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
