Independent auditors report 87 To the members ofShaftesbury PLC REpORt ON tHE FINaNcIaL StatEMENtS In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited OUR OpINION financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently In our opinion: materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September we consider the implications for our report.
2013 and of the Groups profit and of the Groups and Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: OVERVIEW OF OUR aUDIt appROacH The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Materiality accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine as adopted by the European Union: the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate The Parent Company financial statements have been properly the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European statements as a whole.
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for Companies Act 2006: and the Group financial statements as a whole to be 3.1 million.
Our The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the materiality was based on profit before tax, adjusted for net finance requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group income and investment property valuation movements.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
OVERVIEW OF tHE ScOpE OF OUR aUDIt This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
The Groups properties are combined into five villages, each of which WHat WE HaVE aUDItED is a separate statutory entity.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of the five entities, the Parent Company entity and the The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial Groups joint venture.
Except for the joint venture, on which specified statements the financial statements, which are prepared by procedures were performed, all parts of the Group were identified as Shaftesbury PLC, comprise: requiring an audit of their complete financial information, either due the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended totheir size or their risk characteristics.
This work, all of which was 30 September 2013: carried out by the Group audit team, together with additional procedures the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets as at performed on the consolidation, gave us sufficient appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
30 September 2013: the Group and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows and areas of particular audit focus Changes in Shareholders equity for the year then ended: and In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, notably in respect of accounting estimates relating the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of to the valuation of investment properties.
This required them to make significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
assumptions and consider future events that are inherently uncertain.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their We primarily focused our work on these significant accounting estimates preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, European Union and, as regards the Parent Company, as applied in forming our own independent judgements, and evaluating the accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. disclosures in the financial statements.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained financial statements and are identified as audited.
audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
WHat aN aUDIt OF FINaNcIaL StatEMENtS INVOLVES We considered the following areas to be those that required particular We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or statements is set out on page 80. error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE 88 Independent auditors report continued AREA oF FoCUS HoW THE SCoPE oF oUR AUDiT ADDRESSED THE AREA oF FoCUS Valuation of investment properties We tested the data inputs to the investment property including rental income, acquisitions and capital expenditure, by checking them back We focused on this area because of the magnitude of the balance and to supporting documentation.
the underlying assumptions involved in determining the fair value of We met with managements third party valuers to understand and investment properties involve significant judgement and complexities.
assess the assumptions used in the valuation.
We tested the valuation performed by the external valuers by challenging the assumptions used in the calculation, including tenure and tenancy of properties, prevailing market yields and comparable market transactions.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition We tested key controls over the completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue recognised in the financial statements and we also tested ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue income back to signed leases and the reconciliations of revenue to recognition because of the pressure management may feel to achieve cash receipts.
We also met with management to understand the key fraud risks and controls and tested manual journals related to revenue accounts to identify unusual or irregular items.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of potential bias by the directors that might indicate a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
In particular, we tested key estimates and journal entries.
gOINg cONcERN OpINIONS ON MattERS pREScRIbED by tHE cOMpaNIES act 2006 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors In our opinion: statement, set out on page 58, in relation to going concern.
We have the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors nothing to report having performed our review.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that prepared is consistent with the financial statements: it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Parent Companys financial the part of the Annual Remuneration Report to be audited has been statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors on pages 56 to 58 in the Annual Report with respect to internal control intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial and risk management systems and about share capital structures is statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that consistent with the financial statements.
the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE Independent auditors report continued 89 OtHER MattERS ON WHIcH WE aRE REQUIRED tO REpORt by OtHER INFORMatION IN tHE aNNUaL REpORt EXcEptION Under ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: aDEQUacy OF accOUNtINg REcORDS aND INFORMatION aND EXpLaNatIONS REcEIVED materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in statements: or our opinion: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent we have not received all the information and explanations we require with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in for our audit: or the course of performing our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent is otherwise misleading.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
from branches not visited by us: or RESpONSIbILItIES FOR tHE FINaNcIaL StatEMENtS aND tHE aUDIt the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement OUR RESpONSIbILItIES aND tHOSE OF tHE DIREctORS with the accounting records and returns.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
out on page 86, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group and Parent Company financial statements and for being DIREctORS REMUNERatION satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our opinion, Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to review law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for responsibilities.
the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of cORpORatE gOVERNaNcE StatEMENt Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any our opinion a corporate governance statement has not been prepared other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or by the Parent Company.
We have no exceptions to report arising from into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our this responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance andrew paynter Senior Statutory auditor with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
for and on behalf of  LLP We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors On page 86 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision London C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as 27 November 2013 a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 80, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE 90 FINaNcIaL StatEMENtS Group statement of comprehensive income 91 Balance sheets 92 Cash flow statements 93 Statements of changes in shareholders equity 94 Notes to the financial statements 95 Shaftesbury annual report 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
