Group Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Report on the Group Financial Statements Our opinion Overview of our Audit Approach In our opinion the Group financial statements, defined below: Materiality Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect year then ended: of misstatements.
We also took into account that matters below these thresholds may still be considered material for qualitative reasons.
Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 12.5 million, being 5% of the Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Groups consolidated profit before tax.
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder misstatements identified during our audit above 0.5 million as well as of this report.
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for What we have audited qualitative reasons.
The Group financial statements, which are prepared by Croda Overview of the scope of our audit International Plc, comprise: The Group is structured along three business segments, being Consumer The Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: Care, Performance Technologies and Industrial Chemicals.
Within these The Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income segments are 40 individual trading units, which, together with 8 central for the year then ended: units that comprise the Groups centralised functions, are consolidated in the preparation of the Group financial statements.
The Group statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed by us, as the Group engagement The notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those European Union.
reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes financial statements as a whole.
These are cross-referenced from the financial Accordingly, of the Groups 40 trading units, we identified eight that, in our statements and are identified as audited.
view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to What an audit of financial statements involves their size or their risk characteristics.
Specified audit procedures over certain We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on balances were performed at a further two trading units, while further Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining testing was performed at the Group level in particular in the areas of evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements pensions, provisions, intangible assets and taxation.
As a result, audit sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements procedures were performed over reporting units comprising 84% of the are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Groups consolidated profit before tax.
This, gave us the evidence we This includes an assessment of: needed to express our opinion on the Group financial statements as a Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups whole.
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately Areas of particular audit focus disclosed: In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting directors: and estimates.
This required them to make assumptions and consider future The overall presentation of the financial statements.
events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in forming our own independent judgements, and evaluating the disclosures the Groups Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the in the financial statements.
audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
78 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Group Independent Auditors Report Group Consolidated Statements Group Accounting Policies Notes to the Group Accounts Company Independent Auditors Report Company Balance Sheet Company Accounting Policies Notes to the Company Accounts In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
Audit evidence can be obtained through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In summary, we considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 46 and 47.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of defined benefit pension scheme deficit We focused on this area because the Group has a number of open To do this, we considered and challenged the judgements made by the Directors in determining the discount rate and inflation, by making defined benefit pension scheme arrangements and the valuation our own independent judgements and evaluating the sensitivity of of each schemes liability is sensitive to a number of judgemental the pension scheme deficits to differences between our independent assumptions made by the Directors, in particular the discount rate judgements and those made by the Directors, both individually and and inflation.
A small change in these assumptions could have a material impact on the financial statements.
We also tested the integrity of the actuarial valuations used by the Directors in preparing the financial statements.
Recognition of acquired intangible assets We focused on this area due to the judgements and complexities We considered each acquisition in detail, assessing the assets involved in identifying and valuing acquired intangibles.
acquired to ensure the Directors had adopted a robust methodology to identify intangible assets.
An error in the identification and valuation of other intangibles could lead to a misclassification in the balance sheet on acquisition and a We then challenged the cash flow forecasts used to value them misstatement in the income statement in future years.
by comparing the forecasts made on acquisition to available postacquisition results and to available historic data and by considering the Directors historic accuracy in forecasting.
We also compared the discount rates and growth rates applied to our own independent judgements.
Provision for taxation We focused on this area because an error in the interpretation of, We focused our work on the US, French and UK tax balances often complex, tax regulations, particularly relating to transfer pricing, which together represent the majority of the total tax charge for could lead to a material misstatement in the tax expense.
We critically assessed the tax computations and tested the deductions and tax rates applied, focusing in particular on transfer pricing arrangements and challenging uncertain tax positions.
We also requested and read the latest correspondence between the Group and UK and overseas tax authorities, considering any implications this may have on the Group financial statements.
We utilised our experience of similar challenges elsewhere to independently assess the evidence described above.
Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 79 Group Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Areas of Particular Audit Focus continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Provision for environmental remediation We focused on this area because the nature and extent of We tested the methodology used by the Directors for identifying and remediation work required is complex and estimates of its valuing potential exposures and challenged the judgements made costs require significant management judgement.
We considered each exposure in detail by reading correspondence with relevant stakeholders and other information available to the directors and by challenging the judgements that the directors made based on that information.
We also tested the directors accuracy by comparing historic provisions with settlements made during the year.
Fraud in revenue recognition ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue As the foundation of the evidence we obtained regarding the revenue recognition because of the pressure management may feel to recognised during the year, we evaluated the relevant IT systems and achieve the planned results.
tested the internal controls over the completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue recognised in the financial statements.
We tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify unusual or irregular items.
We also tested the reconciliations between the revenue systems used by the Group and its financial ledgers.
Risk of management override of internal controls ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
In particular, we looked at environmental provisions, taxation and pensions.
We also tested manual journal entries.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, set out on page 74, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date having performed our review.
the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
80 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Group Independent Auditors Report Group Consolidated Statements Group Accounting Policies Notes to the Group Accounts Company Independent Auditors Report Company Balance Sheet Company Accounting Policies Notes to the Company Accounts Opinions on matters prescribed by the Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our Companies Act 2006 opinion, information in the Annual Report is: In our Opinion: Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for financial statements: or the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, is consistent with the Group financial statements: and our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on audit: or pages 36 to 51 in the Annual Report with respect to internal control and Is otherwise misleading.
risk management systems and about share capital structures is We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
consistent with the financial statements.
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements Other matters on which we are required to and the audit report by exception Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Adequacy of information and explanations received As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our on pages 76 and 77, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group Directors Remuneration financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our opinion, Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law have not Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 responsibilities.
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other Corporate Governance Statement purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine consent in writing.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have no exceptions to report arising from our review.
Other matter On page 77 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to We have reported separately on the parent company financial be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business 2013 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is model and strategy.
On pages 46 and 47, as required by C. 3.8 of the described as having been audited.
Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor The statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our for and on behalf of  LLP knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, Leeds or 5 March 2014 The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee, as required by the Code Provision C. 3.8.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
