Independent auditors report to the members of CSR plc Opinion on financial statements of CSR plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 27 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 46.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 3 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 89 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk acquired Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other We evaluated the assumptions in the discounted cash flow forecasts intangible assets.
used in the value in use calculation for goodwill and other intangible assets, described in note 13 to the financial statements.
These included This process is particularly complex and highly judgmental as it is based the cashflow projections, growth rates and discount rates used.
We on assumptions about future profitability which is based on technologies have involved valuation experts in challenging the discount rate applied and products still under development.
During the period an impairment to the separate cash generating units by comparing this against industry of $76.9m has been recorded against goodwill and intangibles for the benchmarks on similar assets, the prevailing Group cost of capital at the Camera cash generating unit CGu.
Details of the goodwill impairment year end, and our understanding of the future prospects of the review is disclosed in note 13 to the financial statements.
We have considered the level of risk adjustment applied to each of the cash generating units.
In order to assess the long term growth rate applied to the Board approved cashflow projections we have considered market data and benchmarked the rate against comparator companies.
We have assessed the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the Camera CGu and recalculated the impairment loss recorded.
We have re-run the sensitivities applied by management and considered their reasonableness.
Measurement of the inventory provision.
We performed testing of the controls over the inventory business cycle and have considered the appropriateness of the assumptions and The inventory provision is based on estimates of future sales, which are estimates in relation to the inventory provision, focusing on Legacy and subject to increased uncertainty for the Legacy and Camera business Camera inventory products in light of the decision to cease investment units given the Groups decision to cease continued investment.
We have focused our work on expected forecasts, accounting policy is disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements.
historical data and other third party evidence.
Accounting for ongoing litigation matters.
We considered the internal and external legal advice we obtained and the information gathered by management in preparing their disclosure of Due to the litigious nature of the technology industry accounting for contingent liabilities relating to litigation in note 26 to the financial litigation can be particularly judgmental.
During the period a release to statements.
We assessed the completeness of this disclosure, and the consolidated income statement of $9.8 million has been recorded in tested the carrying value of provisions held in respect of litigation for relation to litigation provisions.
Contingent liabilities have been disclosed accuracy and completeness by reference to correspondence between in note 26 to the financial statements.
the parties and legal advice received by the Group.
Provisions held in respect of litigation have reduced by $9.8 million and we assessed the appropriateness of this release through review of supporting legal documents.
90 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 90 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk acquired Recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets in the US We challenged the appropriateness of the assumptions and estimates in and the Groups exposure to significant tax risks and the level of relation to the likelihood of generating future taxable profits to support provisions recognised.
the recognition of deferred tax assets, specifically in the uS, assessing the assumptions, through observation of underlying records and external The calculation of deferred tax assets is based on estimates of future data and considering the supporting forecasts and estimates.
We tested profitability for operations that have been acquired in the uS, and the impact of past restructuring activities in different jurisdictions to therefore this is a particularly judgmental area.
The deferred tax position assess the completeness of provisions and taxation balances recorded.
is disclosed in note 11 to the financial statements.
We tested the controls in place to verify revenue recognition is appropriate, including the timing of revenue recognition and the This includes the timing of revenue recognition and the treatment of treatment of software revenue.
This included consideration of where software elements to products sold.
As the Group utilises third party additional services are sold alongside chips.
We also performed focused manufacturers the timing of recognition of revenue from distributors and substantive testing, analytical procedures and assessed whether the manufacturers is an area where judgement is required.
The accounting revenue recognition policies adopted by the Group complied with IFRS.
policy for revenue is outlined in note 3.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on pages 62 and 63.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group at $7.5 million, which represents, approximately 7.5% of underlying pre-tax profit as described in the Annual Report and 1.2% of equity.
We have used underlying pre-tax profit as this is a common measure used by investors.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Audit Committee all audit differences in excess of $0.15 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our global Group audit scope was determined by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope on the uK head office in Cambridge.
Whilst the Groups operations are worldwide, there is sufficient oversight and centralisation of the finance and management functions to allow us to complete full audit procedures from Cambridge on entities and balances which account for 96% of Group revenue.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused.
In 2013, the Senior Statutory Auditor visited Cambridge, uK and San Jose, uSA.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the uK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
indb 91 11 03 2014 21:17 Independent auditors report to the members of CSR plc continued Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report under International Standards on Auditing uK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing uK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 uK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Kate J Houldsworth FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London 25 February 2014 92 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
