Accounts Independent auditors report Opinion on financial statements of Afren plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group and Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company, as applied in accordance with the provisions oftheCompanies Act 2006: and the Group and Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, theGroupand Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors report on page 80 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements isappropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation ofresources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Recoverability of intangible exploration and evaluation We evaluated managements assessment of whether there were any E&E assets indicators of impairment for any of the Groups E&E assets, taking into consideration the impairment indicators outlined in IFRS 6 and IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources requires industry practice.
management to consider whether there are facts and circumstances indicating that the entity should test E&E assets for impairment.
Our work included discussion of the latest status and future appraisal plans on each licence with operational staff and Group management, This involves the use of significant judgment both in the review confirming that the E&E assets are included in capital expenditure plans ofimpairment indicators and in any subsequent impairment test, and budgets, and verifying whether the current phase of the Groups the consideration of estimates which are dependent on assumptions licence to explore is at, or close to, expiry.
Our procedures included obtaining and reviewing documentary evidence, such as budgets, field development plans, contracts for future drilling and geological and geophysical G&G activities, correspondence with joint venture partners and other third parties, and licence documents.
In addition, we obtained written representation from management with regard to their overall assessment and their intentions to continue E&E activities.
Details of the Groups policy on E&E assets are disclosed in note 4.3 together with details of impairments to exploration and evaluation assets recorded by the Group in the year.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 107 Accounts Independent auditors report continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Recoverability of development and producing oil and gas properties We have challenged managements assessment of potential within property, plant and equipment, together with associated impairment indicators in light of the performance of each asset goodwill balances.
andexternal factors such as the outlook for oil and gas prices.
Management is required to assess whether there are any indications Management has engaged independent experts to provide an of impairment, and if so test for impairment by measuring the updated estimate of the majority of the Groups commercial oil and recoverable amount of the asset.
Goodwill must be tested for gas reserves.
We have obtained and considered a draft report from impairment at least annually, irrespective of whether there are managements expert and discussed their work and findings with indicators of impairment.
We have considered whether the latest estimates are indicative of impairment.
In forming their judgements as to whether indications of impairment are present and carrying out any necessary impairment reviews, Where management has carried out an impairment review and management considers estimates involving oil and gas reserves, calculated a recoverable amount being in respect of the OML26 future oil and gas prices, future costs, and discount rates.
CGU including the related goodwill see note 5.13, we have compared the assumptions adopted in managements recoverable amount calculations with the latest independent estimates.
This included consideration of oil price assumptions and discount rates for reasonableness by reference to publicly available market data, comparison of future cost estimates with actual cost levels and budgets, checking for consistency with the assumptions underlying therelated reserves estimates.
Details of impairment reviews undertaken by the Group during the year and related assumptions are provided in notes 4.4 and 5.13.
Depletion, depreciation and amortisation We agreed the reserves and future development cost estimates used in the DD&A calculations to the most recent reserves report available The calculation of depletion, depreciation and amortisation throughout the period.
We also checked the latest draft reserves report DD&A involves estimation of the remaining commercial for any indication that reserves estimates used throughout the year oil and gas reserves and future development costs required may have been based on erroneous information.
Where DD&A calculations were revised during the year to take This charge is highly material and involves complex estimates.
into account further development approvals granted in the year These estimates involve the use of judgement as to the point and amendments to contractual terms governing production and during the reporting period from which revised estimates or cost sharing arrangements with Afrens partners, we assessed changes in development plans should be reflected in the Groups whether these changes had been reflected in the DD&A calculations DD&A calculations.
DD&A calculations also need to be revised appropriately and applied from an appropriate point.
to reflect changes in contractual terms which affect cost and production sharing.
We checked the calculations for mathematical accuracy and agreed production quantities to stock take results.
Details of the Groups policy on DD&A calculation are disclosed innote4.4.
Accounting for deferred and current taxation We checked the Groups taxation computations in respect of current and deferred income tax and assessed for consistency with local Measurement of the Groups income tax obligations can be tax legislation and accounting standards with the assistance of local judgemental and or complex, reflecting inherent uncertainty in local and Group tax specialists.
We evaluated judgements taken relating tax regulation and tax rates and resultant uncertainties over the tax to managements provisioning for tax by reference to local tax treatment of certain aspects of the Groups business.
requirements and review of correspondence with tax authorities.
In the current year, material remeasurements of deferred and current We checked that the requirement to account for tax assets and income tax were made following the Group securing entitlement liabilities at the relevant enacted or substantively enacted rates had to a five-year tax exemption in respect of Ebok and an agreement been properly applied.
clarifying certain tax matters with one of Afrens partners.
We checked documentary support for the Groups entitlement totheEbok tax exemption.
We assessed the reasonableness of managements judgement toaccount for US$298 million out of the US$300 million paid in the year as the cost of acquisition of deferred tax benefits relating totheEbokproject.
Details of the Groups policy on deferred and current income tax are disclosed in note 2.3 together with details of income tax recorded bythe Group in the year.
Afren plc 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Accounts Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Application of production, cost and profit sharing contractual terms We reviewed the changes made in the amended agreements to the Groups production operations.
and considered managements assessment of their effect and the accounting treatment for the consideration paid and payable in light The Group participates in each of its producing projects through of the benefits secured.
multiple agreements which have been executed and amended over a number of years.
We also assessed whether the revisions affected managements previous conclusions as to the overall accounting for the Groups The application of these agreements to some aspects of the Groups participation in these projects under IFRS, having regard to normal business can be open to interpretation and negotiation, and the practice in the industry whereby IFRS is not prescriptive, with particular application of IFRS to aspects of these arrangements involves regard to the adoption of IFRS11 in the year.
Following achievement of cost recovery on Ebok in December 2013, During 2013, expenses of US$300 million and US$108 million were we considered the newly effective terms and assessed whether these incurred in order to secure amendments to agreements governing have been appropriately reflected in the 2013 financial statements.
the Groups Ebok and Okoro assets, including to clarify certain ambiguities and uncertainties in the existing arrangements.
Also in We considered the level of estimation uncertainty involved in 2013, cost recovery on Ebok has been achieved with the result that measuring the Groups production, cost and profit sharing liabilities certain production, profit and costs sharing terms became effective at the year end, and managements assessment that this uncertainty for the first time.
could lead to material revisions to currently recorded amounts in future periods.
We considered whether the disclosures made in note 1.6 in This is considered a key risk because of the degree of judgement relation to this material estimation uncertainty are appropriate.
involved in interpreting contractual terms and associated amounts due, and because the consequential estimation uncertainties arematerial.
The Audit and Risk Committees consideration of these risks is set out on pages 91 to 92.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
When setting materiality, among other factors we considered the Groups pre-tax profit and net assets in the current year as well as in recent years: the occurrence of any non-recurring or fluctuating gains and losses such as exploration and evaluation assets impairments, costs of extinguishment of bonds, and fair valuation of hedges and the level of consolidated shareholders equity.
We determined materiality for the Group to be US$31,000,000, which is below 7.5% of adjusted pre-tax profit, and below 2% of equity.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of US$600,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit scope included full audit of all key business units of the Group, including Nigeria, Kurdistan region of Iraq and East Africa operations together with the head office function in London.
These locations account for all of the Groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
Our audit work used levels of materiality applicable to each individual business unit which were lower than Group materiality.
Component auditors were involved in Nigeria as the majority of developed and producing oil and gas assets are located there and in-depth knowledge of local legislation and tax regulations is required.
In the current year, in addition to regular interaction and review through correspondence, telephone and other electronic media, the Senior Statutory Auditor visited the Nigerian component during the audit concluding phase.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 109 Accounts Independent auditors report continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from subsidiaries not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Weconfirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Afren plc 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Accounts Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements orinconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Bevan Whitehead ACA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 26 March 2014 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 111
