Independent auditors report to the members of Dairy Crest Group plc We have audited the financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies for the year ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Act 2006 income statement, Consolidated statement of comprehensive In our opinion: income, Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has Consolidated statement of changes in equity, Parent Company been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act statement of changes in equity and the Consolidated and Parent 2006: and Company statement of cash flows and the related notes 1 to 35. the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting the financial statements.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in Matters on which we are required to report by exception accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act you if, in our opinion: 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns to the Companys members those matters we are required to state adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest visited by us: or extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility the financial statements and the part of the Directors to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we accounting records and returns: or have formed.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor we have not received all the information and explanations we As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement require for our audit.
set out on page 56, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an the Directors statement, set out on page 53, in relation to going opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable concern: law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to the shareholders by the Board on Scope of the audit of the financial statements Directors remuneration.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Alison Duncan Senior statutory auditor assurance that the financial statements are free from material for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an London assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 22 May 2013 the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Notes: the parent company financial statements have been properly 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Dairy Crest Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial Companies Act 2006: and statements since they were initially presented on the website.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 57 72236 Glasshouse p57.
