INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEVRO PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: The financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the groups profit and groups and parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: The group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements, which are prepared by Devro plc, comprise: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 31 December 2013: the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity and cash flow statements for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 119 I 2 3 4 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEVRO PLC continued Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the group financial statements as a whole to be 1.9 million.
This represents approximately 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
We used profit before tax and exceptional items as we considered this to be an appropriate measure of recurring performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 95,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The group has manufacturing facilities in Australia, Czech Republic, Scotland and USA, supplying markets in Asia-Pacific, Europe and North and South America.
The group financial statements are a consolidation of eight reporting units, comprising the groups manufacturing locations, sales offices and centralised functions of which the four manufacturing facilities and head office are the most significant.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
Accordingly, of the groups eight reporting units, we identified two that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information due to their financially significant contribution to the groups overall results.
We carried out audits of the complete financial information of three further reporting units which we considered necessary to achieve sufficient audit evidence over the groups activities.
This provided coverage of 85% of revenue and 99% of profit before tax.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further reporting unit where the significance of inventory held by this reporting unit to the overall group financial statements had increased.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 49.
120 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Carrying value of inventory We tested the groups compliance with its accounting policy We focused on this area because of the higher levels of in relation to inventory ageing and provisioning and assessed inventory in the group due to increased manufacturing whether the policy is appropriate when considering the output of product which had not yet been sold.
We compared the cost of the different lines of inventory against expected net realisable value, focussing on the higher value lines, to determine if the carrying value of inventory was overstated.
Development programme We tested the groups assessment of the impact of the We focused on this area because of the significant expenditure development expenditure project in the USA on the carrying on development projects being undertaken by the group, value of existing plant and equipment to determine whether the namely in the USA and China, and the impact this can have on carrying values are impaired and useful lives are appropriate.
the carrying value of existing plant and equipment in the USA.
We obtained managements list of identified assets and Certain expenditure has also been classified as exceptional assessment of useful lives against the capital project plan and disclosed separately on the face of the income statement.
and re-calculated the accelerated depreciation charge.
We also tested the identification and disclosure of exceptional costs in relation to the USA and China capital projects by agreeing amounts to evidence that supported managements assessment of the incremental and non-recurring nature of the costs.
Valuation of pension obligations We evaluated the groups key judgements, taking into account We focused on this area because of the materiality of the the specific characteristics of the groups pension schemes.
We obligation to the financial statements and the key judgements challenged assumptions with respect to discount rates, inflation involved in determining the net pension obligation including rates and mortality rates used by the directors by comparing discount rates, inflation rates and mortality rates.
them to our own, independently formed expectations.
Fraud in revenue recognition We tested revenue through confirming the settlement of ISAs UK& Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue sales transactions to accounts receivable and cash.
We tested recognition because of the pressure management may feel customer rebates by agreeing them to customer specific to achieve the planned results.
We tested transactions around the year end date to check revenue was recognised in the correct period.
We also identified material journals being posted to revenue by understanding the rationale for the adjustments and obtaining appropriate evidence.
Risk of management override of internal controls We tested key reconciliations over material financial statement ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
line items and manual journal entries.
We considered whether there was evidence of bias by the directors in the significant accounting estimates and judgments relevant to the financial statements that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also assessed the overall control environment of the group, including the arrangements for staff to whistleblow inappropriate actions, and held discussions with the groups internal audit function.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 46, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the groups and parent companys financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 121 I 2 3 4 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEVRO PLC continued Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 45 and 46 in the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 67 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 49, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
122 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 67, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group and parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Caroline Roxburgh Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Edinburgh 18 March 2014 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 123
