Independent auditors report to the members of Diageo plc We have audited the group financial statements of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2013 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and, in respect of the separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, on terms that have been agreed with the company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and, in respect of the separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB, those matters that we have agreed to state to them in our report, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out in the Corporate Governance Report, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 30 June 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB As explained in the accounting policies set out in the group financial statements, the group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the EU, has also applied IFRS as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion, the group financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out in the Corporate Governance Report, in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review, and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2013 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Paul Korolkiewicz Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 30 July 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Diageo plc 125
