Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information D Diig gn niit ty y p pllc c 2 79 1 A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t & & A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 013 13 Independent auditors report to the members of Dignity plc for the 52 week period ended 27 December 2013 Report on the Group financial statements incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge Our opinion acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we In our opinion the Group financial statements, defined below: become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 27 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash Overview of our audit approach flows for the 52 week period then ended: Materiality have been properly prepared in accordance with International We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit European Union: and procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the 4 million.
In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to remainder of this report.
earnings before interest and taxation, because in our view, this is the most relevant measure of underlying performance.
What we have audited The Group financial statements, which are prepared by Dignity We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report plc, comprise: to them misstatements identified during our audit above the Consolidated balance sheet as at 27 December 2013: 0.2 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the 52 week period Overview of the scope of our audit then ended: The Group is structured along three business lines being the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and funeral services, crematoria and pre-arranged funeral plans, Consolidated statement of cash flows for the 52 week period supported by central overhead functions.
These business lines then ended: and and central functions are arranged into a number of statutory the notes to the financial statements, which include a entities.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation summary of significant accounting policies and other of these statutory entities which are all managed centrally explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their For the purposes of our group audit, we identified seven preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by statutory entities which, in our view, required an audit of their the European Union.
complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
However we also completed our audits Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting of the financial information of other, non-significant statutory framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report entities prior to completion of the Group financial statements.
& Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to Therefore, together with additional procedures performed at the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the the Group level with respect to consolidation adjustments, we financial statements and are identified as audited.
obtained 99% coverage of the group earnings before interest and taxation, which gave us the evidence we needed for our What an audit of financial statements involves opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Areas of particular audit focus An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and In preparing the financial statements, the directors made disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free of significant accounting estimates that involved making from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by This includes an assessment of: assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the in the financial statements.
Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: In our audit, we tested and examined information, using the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we made by the directors: and considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially Dignity plc 72 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Dignity plc continued for the 52 week period ended 27 December 2013 We considered the following areas to be those that required Going Concern particular focus in the current period.
This is not a complete Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going concern.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is As noted in the directors statement, the directors have set out on pages 50 and 51. concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has Area of focus How the scope of our audit adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the addressed the area of focus directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date Acquisition of Yew Holdings We performed procedures to determine the the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we Limited valuation of assets completeness of rights and obligations to have concluded that the directors use of the going concern acquired and associated assets and liabilities acquired.
goodwill, and presentation We obtained and evaluated the independent and disclosure in the valuations of freehold properties commissioned financial statements However, because not all future events or conditions can be by management.
We compared and challenged We focused on the valuation key assumptions used, including the valuation predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the and completeness of assets basis as market value adjusted for certain Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
and liabilities recognised in assumptions being that the property would the balance sheet relating be vacant and the business closed but that to this acquisition, including the property will continue to be used for its Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the resulting goodwill, due existing use.
We also tested the existence to the size of the acquisition of a sample of properties by agreeing to In our opinion: and the significance of supporting title deeds.
judgements management We obtained an understanding of the the information given in the Strategic Report and the were required to make in intangible assets acquired and performed accounting for this acquisition.
Directors Report for the financial period for which the Group procedures to obtain evidence for the value The presentation and allocated to trade names by obtaining financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group disclosure of the acquisition managements summary of customer market financial statements: and is considered to be complex data and agreeing relevant inputs to third under IFRS 3 revised.
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement Having obtained audit evidence for the set out on pages 46 to 49 in the Annual Report with respect valuation of assets and liabilities acquired, to internal control and risk management systems and about we re-performed managements calculation share capital structures is consistent with the financial of the resulting goodwill.
We also performed procedures to determine that disclosure of the transaction in the financial statements was appropriate and Other matters on which we are required to report complies with the relevant accounting by exception standards.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Fraud in revenue recognition We evaluated the IT systems as the foundation of the evidence that we obtained Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to ISAs UK & Ireland presume regarding the revenue recognised during there is a risk of fraud in you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information the period.
revenue recognition because and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no of the pressure management We obtained evidence that invoices had exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
may feel to achieve the been issued appropriately and that cash planned results.
had been collected, or a receivable recorded for each sale selected for testing, including Directors remuneration The pressure is considered whether the revenue was recorded in the to be heightened in a listed Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report correct period.
company given the external to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors market pressures to achieve We tested deferred income to identify that remuneration specified by law have not been made, and under planned results.
We focused it is appropriately calculated in accordance on the completeness of this with the revenue recognition policy and that the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements revenue and whether this revenue was allocated to the correct period.
of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors revenue had been earned.
We also tested journal entries posted remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from to revenue accounts to identify unusual these responsibilities.
or irregular items and obtained evidence to determine the rationale for the adjustments tested.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to Risk of management override We assessed the overall control environment you if, in our opinion a corporate governance statement has not of internal controls of the Group, including the arrangements for been prepared by the Parent Company.
We have no exceptions staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, ISAs UK & Ireland require and discussed fraud with senior management to report arising from this responsibility.
and the head of the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the evidence of bias by the directors that may Parent Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK represent a risk of material misstatement Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing due to fraud.
We tested some smaller value items and some higher risk areas in an to report having performed our review.
unpredictable manner compared with previous periods.
We also tested a sample of journal entries.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information D Diig gn niit ty y p pllc c 2 79 3 A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t & & A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 013 13 On page 49 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Other matters Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the We have reported separately on the parent company financial Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and statements of Dignity plc for the 52 week period ended 27 understandable and provides the information necessary for December 2013 and on the information in the Directors members to assess the Groups performance, business model Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
On pages 50 and 51, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are Matthew Mullins Senior Statutory Auditor required to report to you if, in our opinion: for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent Birmingham with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or 5 March 2014 the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 68, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
