Diploma PLC 100 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Diploma PLC Opinion on financial statements of Diploma PLC Our application of materiality In our opinion: We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
For 30 September 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year the purposes of determining whether the financial statements are then ended: free from material misstatement we define materiality as the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: relying on the financial statements, would be changed or the parent company financial statements have been properly influenced.
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a the financial statements have been prepared in accordance magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS determined planning materiality for the Group to be 2.5 million, Regulation.
which is approximately 5% of pre-tax profit.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive them all audit differences in excess of 50,000, as well as Income and Other Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of reporting on qualitative grounds.
Financial Position, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the related notes 1 to 29 and the Group Accounting policies.
This also An overview of the scope of our audit comprises the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Reconciliation Our Group audit scope focussed primarily on the audit work at 7 of Movement in Shareholders Funds and its related notes a to d locations.
Each of these 7 locations was subject to a full scope and the Parent Company Accounting policies.
An additional 5 locations were subject to specific agreed reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of upon audit procedures which address each of the significant the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as balances and significant risks within these entities.
Together the adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting work at these 12 locations represent the principal business units framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent of the Group and account for 79% of the Groups revenues and company financial statements is applicable law and United 96% of the Groups profit before tax.
Our audit work at the 12 Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally principal business units was executed at levels of materiality Accepted Accounting Practice.
applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors The Group audit team has designed and implemented a rotational statement on page 68 that the Group is a going concern.
We country visit programme to ensure that the Senior Statutory confirm that: Auditor or another senior member of the group audit team visits we have not identified material uncertainties related to events these locations.
Each year this programme of visits includes the or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups three most significant territories being the US, Canada and UK ability to continue as a going concern which we believe would which comprise 10 locations and 71% of Group revenue.
Where need to be disclosed in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by no visits are carried out, the Senior Statutory Auditor or another the European Union: and senior member of the team has held discussions with the lead we have concluded that the directors use of the going partner.
We have performed analytical procedures for those concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial locations making up the remaining revenue and operating profit.
The way in which we scoped our response to the risks identified However, because not all future events or conditions can be above was as follows: predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups we challenged managements assumptions used in the ability to continue as a going concern.
impairment model for goodwill and intangible assets, described in note 10 to the financial statements, including Our assessment of risks of material misstatement specifically the cash flow projections, the discount and The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are perpetuity rates applied to those cash flows, and the those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the sensitivities considered: allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the we tested the existence of stocks and tested that the book engagement team: value does not exceed the net realisable value of stocks.
We the assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible challenged managements inventory provisions and assessed assets: their adequacy: and the valuation of inventory including appropriateness of we challenged managements calculation of the bad debt judgements applied within the obsolescence provision: and provision and tested the recoverability of trade receivables.
the recoverability of trade receivables.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in page 47. the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial Statements 101 Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation Report for the financial year for which the financial statements of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and true and fair view.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Act 2006. financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Matters on which we are required to report by exception standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, if, in our opinion: in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act we have not received all the information and explanations we 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state require for our audit: or to the Companys members those matters we are either required adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or received from branches not visited by us: or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the the parent company financial statements are not in agreement Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, with the accounting records and returns.
or for the opinions we have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Directors remuneration disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys returns.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately elements of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates to report arising from these matters or our review.
made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and Corporate Governance Statement non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report consider the implications for our report.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Edward Hanson Senior Statutory Auditor materially inconsistent with the information in the audited for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP financial statements: or Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially London inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the United Kingdom course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
18 November 2013 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
