Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report We have audited the financial statements of Dixons Retail IFRSs issued by the IASB plc for the year ended 30 April 2013 which comprise the As explained in notes 1.1 and C1 to the Group and Company financial statements, respectively, the Group and consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expense, the consolidated Company in addition to complying with its legal obligation to and company balance sheets, the consolidated and apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting company cash flow statements, the consolidated and company statement of changes in equity and the related Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the financial notes 1 to 32 and C1 to C17.
The financial reporting statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and In our opinion: as regards the Company financial statements as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are This report is made solely to the Companys members, prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies so that we might state to the Companys members those Act 2006. matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Matters on which we are required to report by exception permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We have nothing to report in respect of the following: to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to the opinions we have formed.
you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor adequate accounting records have not been kept by the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation received from branches not visited by us: or of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial statements and the part of the and express an opinion on the financial statements in Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in accordance with applicable law and International Standards agreement with the accounting records and returns: or on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical law are not made: or Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements the directors statement contained within the Directors are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Report and Business Review in relation to going concern: fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material mis-statements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Nicola Mitchell FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Opinions Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Financial statements London, United Kingdom In our opinion the financial statements: 20 June 2013 give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2013 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Dixons Retail plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
