71 Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Domino Printing Sciences plc Opinion on financial statements of Domino Printing preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Sciences plc Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as In our opinion: applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. w the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Going concern Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 October 2013 As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: statement contained within the Directors Report that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: w the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs w we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern as adopted by the European Union: basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements w the Parent Company financial statements have been properly is appropriate: and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European w we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Companies Act 2006: and w the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, Consolidated and that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, Consolidated and resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Parent Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of investment in TEN Media LLC: We considered and challenged managements view that in the The valuation of the investment in TEN Media LLC TEN Media is light of ongoing delays in the project and the requirement for complex and highly judgmental and is based on assumptions about additional funding from the Company which is not expected to future profitability of the investment.
TEN Media is a startup be forthcoming, the investment should be impaired in full.
business and has been impaired in full in the period, as disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements.
Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets: We evaluated managements assumptions in the cash flow forecasts The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible used in the value in use calculation for goodwill and other intangible assets, is a judgemental process which includes assumptions around assets, described in note 15 to the financial statements.
These future profits and revenue growth, hence there are inherent included the cash flow projections, growth rates and sensitivities uncertainties to these models.
Goodwill and other intangible assets used.
We have challenged the discount rate applied to the separate are material balances within the Group financial statements and cash generating units by comparing this against industry Domino Printing Sciences plc operates in a global market which benchmarks on similar assets utilising valuation experts, the is susceptible to economic change.
Group managements key prevailing Group cost of capital at the year end, and our judgments are disclosed in note 15 to the financial statements.
understanding of the future prospects of the business.
We have considered the level of risk adjustment applied to each of the cash generating units.
In order to challenge the mediumterm growth rate applied to the cash flow projections we have considered market data and benchmarked the rate against comparator companies.
We have applied sensitivities to the model.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 72 Independent Auditors report to the members of Domino Printing Sciences plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of contingent consideration: We considered the appropriateness of managements assumptions The assessment of the carrying value of contingent consideration is used in the forecasts which support both the quantum and the a judgemental area as it is based on the same cash flow forecasts timing of future payments for contingent consideration in light of as used in the impairment review of goodwill and other intangible the reassessment made to the provision.
We confirmed that the assets.
These cash flows are then used to assess the total amounts movement in contingent consideration for each acquisition is payable to the previous owners of acquired businesses where the consistent with the underlying forecasts and that the balance consideration owed is determined based on future profitability of reflects the agreed repayment schedules.
As described in note 23 to the financial statements, the provision has reduced by 2.8 million this year to 8.0 million.
Revenue recognition: We carried out tests relating to controls over revenue recognition, There are significant judgements involved in applying the Groups including the accounting for multiple element arrangements and the revenue recognition policies in relation to contract accounting for timing of revenue recognition.
We reviewed the terms of individual significant contracts with multiple revenue streams e. g. installation, sales spanning the year end period and the treatment of these implementation and support, and the cutoff applied to all revenue contracts in the financial statements to assess whether the revenue streams.
The Groups policy on revenue recognition is set out in recognition is consistent with those terms, the Groups policy and note 1 to the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the page 46.
Group and its environment, including Groupwide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the on that assessment, we focused our work primarily on 19 locations.
context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion w 11 of these locations, accounting for 93 per cent of the Groups on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the netassets and 93 per cent of the Groups revenue, were subject risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these toa full audit.
w At a further 8, accounting for 7 per cent of the Groups net assets and revenue we carried analytical procedures to confirm our Our application of materiality conclusion that there were no significant risks of material We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic remaining operating locations not subject to audit or audit of decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed specified account balances.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Our work at each location was carried out at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group We determined materiality for the Group to be 4.0 million, which materiality.
We also tested the consolidation at the parent level.
is approximately 7.5 per cent of underlying pretax profit and 2 per cent of equity.
As set out in note 3 to the financial statements, The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned pretax profit is adjusted by excluding the effect of separately visits that has been designed so that a partner or a senior member of disclosed exceptional nonrecurring items and certain noncash the Group audit team visits each of the locations where the Group items as these can be volatile and so the underlying measure audit scope was focused at least once every two years, with a senior provides a more comparable measure with similar organisations.
member of the Group audit team attending the planning and close meetings either by phone or in person every year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 80,000, as well Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted Act 2006 reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit In our opinion: Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
w the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and w the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 73 Financial statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial in our opinion: statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial w we have not received all the information and explanations we statements in accordance with applicable law and International require for our audit: or Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards w adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent for Auditors.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in w the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. the accounting records and returns.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Directors remuneration other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Scope of the audit of the financial statements audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to report assurance that the financial statements are free from material arising from these matters or our review.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Corporate Governance Statement Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to Our duty to read other information in the annual report identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any report is: apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
w materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or w apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Stuart Henderson ACA w otherwise misleading.
Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit Cambridge, England and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is 11 December 2013 fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
