Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Dominos Pizza Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013 which comprise the Companies Act 2006 Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 9.
The financial reporting In our opinion: framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been Accounting Practice.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members with the parent company financial statements.
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Matters on which we are required to report assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we by exception have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in ouropinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, auditor or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 76, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent records and returns: or company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for not made: or Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in Other matter the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the We have reported separately on the group financial statements of financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Dominos Pizza Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013. fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting That report includes the risks that we believe to have the greatest impact policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have on our overall audit strategy and the allocation of resources in the audit been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of and directing the efforts of the audit team.
The risk of impairment in the significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall carrying value of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial related to the business in Germany has also been of relevance to the and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify parent company financial statements.
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect, or materially inconsistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Simon ONeill inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Opinion on financial statements Birmingham In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 28 February 2014 give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 29 December 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 125
