Drax Group plc 99 Annual report and accounts 2013 Independent auditors report Opinion on financial statements of Drax Group plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the related group notes 1 to 35 and the related Parent Company only notes 1 to 8.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within Operational and financial performance that the group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the groups ability to continue as a going concern which we believe would need to be disclosed in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Audit risks and key judgements How the scope of our work responded to that risk The useful economic life and carrying value We focused on testing the validity and valuation of a sample of additions by of fixed assets agreeing back to third party evidence.
We reviewed management assumptions over the carrying value and useful economic life of the key plant by consideration of external market data and other benchmarking.
We also considered whether any additions or redundant assets would result in impairment.
The valuation of commodity contracts Our work focused on testing managements judgements and calculations including testing a sample of trades undertaken and the assumptions involved in determining valuation and hedge effectiveness.
The valuation of Renewable Obligation We verified the number of ROCs generated in the period either to third party Certificates ROCs.
evidence or tested internal calculations where applicable.
We reviewed and compared managements valuation of ROCs to external market data.
We tested the underlying weighted average cost calculation to source data and Valuation of coal and biomass stocks benchmarked this against industry pricing.
We also attended and considered the results of external surveys completed on the coal stockpile held at the Drax site and obtained, on a sample basis, external confirmation for stock held by third parties.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 74.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 10 0 Annual report and accounts 2013 Independent auditors report Our application of materiality We determined planning materiality for the group to be 10 million, which is approximately 7% of normalised pre-tax profit and below 1% of equity.
We use normalised pre-tax profit to exclude the effect of volatility from unrealised gains or losses on derivative contracts, as determined described in note 9.
We determined that normalised pre-tax profit is an appropriate base for determining materiality as shareholders place significant value on the income statement.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.2 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work at three locations.
All of these were subject to a full audit.
These three locations represent the principal business units within the groups two reportable segments and account for all of the groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the audit team visits each of the two most significant locations where the group audit scope was focused every year.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Drax Group plc 101 Annual report and accounts 2013 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Carl D Hughes MA FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 18 February 2014 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
