Governance Independent Auditors report to the members of easyJet plc the overall presentation of the accounts.
REPORT ON THE ACCOUNTS In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Our opinion information in the Annual Report to identify material In our opinion: inconsistencies with the audited accounts and to the accounts, dened below, give a true and fair identify any information that is apparently materially view of the state of the Groups and of the incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, Companys affairs as at 30 September 2013 and the knowledge acquired by us in the course of of the Groups profit and of the Groups and performing the audit.
If we become aware of any Companys cash ows for the year then ended: apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Overview of our audit approach Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Materiality European Union: We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These the Company accounts have been properly helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance effect of misstatements, both individually and on the accounts as a whole.
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the accounts have been prepared in accordance Based on our professional judgement, we determined with the requirements of the Companies Act materiality for the Group accounts as a whole to be 2006 and, as regards the Group accounts, Article 23 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we This opinion is to be read in the context of what we would report to them misstatements identied say below.
during our audit above 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our What we have audited view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
The Group accounts and Company accounts the accounts, which are prepared by Overview of the scope of our audit easyJet plc, comprise: The Group operates through four trading subsidiary undertakings as set out on page 129 and the the Group consolidated and Company statements Groups accounts are a consolidation of these of financial position as at 30 September 2013: entities.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group consolidated income statement and the Group audit we determined the type of work consolidated statement of comprehensive that needed to be performed in respect of each income for the year then ended: subsidiary: which comprised an audit of their complete financial information.
These procedures the Group consolidated and Company gave us the evidence that we needed for our statements of changes in equity and statements opinion on the Groups accounts as a whole.
of cash ows for the year then ended: and the notes to the accounts, which include a Areas of particular audit focus summary of significant accounting policies and In preparing the accounts, the Directors made a other explanatory information.
number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that The financial reporting framework that has been involved making assumptions and considering applied in their preparation comprises applicable law future events that are inherently uncertain.
We and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, primarily focused our work in these areas by as regards the Company, as applied in accordance assessing the Directors judgements against with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. available evidence, forming our own judgements, What an audit of accounts involves and evaluating the disclosures in the accounts.
We conducted our audit in accordance with In our audit, we tested and examined information, International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland using sampling and other auditing techniques, to ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining the extent we considered necessary to provide evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
accounts sufficient to give reasonable assurance We obtained audit evidence through testing the that the accounts are free from material effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: We considered the following areas to be those that whether the accounting policies are appropriate required particular focus in the current year.
This is not to the Groups and Companys circumstances a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identied and have been consistently applied and by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with adequately disclosed: the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters the reasonableness of significant accounting that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the accounts is set out on page 71. estimates made by the Directors: and www.
com 91 Independent Auditors report to the members of easyJet plc continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus We evaluated and tested the Directors maintenance Aircraft maintenance provisions The Directors have included a provision of 252 million for provision model and calculations, including evaluating the reasonableness of the assumptions, testing the input data aircraft maintenance costs in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases refer to notes 1 and 16 to the accounts.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the model: likely utilisation We focused on this area because of a level of difficulty in of the aircraft: the expected cost of the heavy maintenance estimating the amount of the provision as a result of the check at the time it is expected to occur: the condition of complex and subjective judgements that the Directors the aircraft: and the lifespan of life-limited parts.
ascertained the magnitude of movements in those assumptions, that either individually or collectively would be required for the provision to be misstated, we considered the likelihood of such movements arising and any impact on the overall level of provision recorded in the accounts.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the accounts for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested journal entries.
We evaluated the relevant information technology systems and Fraud in revenue recognition ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue tested the internal controls over the completeness, accuracy and timing of seat revenue recognised in the accounts.
We recognition because of the pressure management may feel to achieve the planned results.
We focused on the timing of tested the reconciliations between the revenue systems used by the Group and its financial ledgers and journal entries posted the recognition of seat revenue and its presentation in the consolidated income statement, because this is dependent to revenue accounts to identify unusual or irregular items.
We also tested the timing of revenue recognition, checking the on the fullment of certain obligations.
necessary obligations had been fullled, generally that the relevant ight had taken place.
Going concern OPINIONS ON MATTERS Under the Listing Rules we are required to review PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES the Directors statement, set out on page 36, in ACT 2006 relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
In our opinion: As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors the information given in the Strategic Report have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the and the Directors Report for the financial year Groups and the Companys accounts using the going for which the accounts are prepared is consistent concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis with the accounts: and presumes that the Group and the Company have the part of the Directors remuneration report adequate resources to remain in operation, and that to be audited has been properly prepared in the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one accordance with the Companies Act 2006. year from the date the accounts were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 92 Governance Other information in the Annual Report OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual BY EXCEPTION Report is: Adequacy of accounting records and materially inconsistent with the information in the information and explanations received audited accounts: or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required apparently materially incorrect based on, or to report to you if, in our opinion: materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the we have not received all the information and Group and the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been is otherwise misleading.
kept by the Company, or returns adequate for We have no exceptions to report arising from our audit have not been received from branches this responsibility.
not visited by us: or the Company accounts and the part of the RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE Directors remuneration report to be audited are ACCOUNTS AND THE AUDIT not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of We have no exceptions to report arising from Directors responsibilities set out on page 90, the this responsibility.
Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Directors remuneration Group and the Company accounts and for being Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Our responsibility is to audit and express an Directors remuneration specified by law have not opinion on the Group and the Company accounts been made, and under the Listing Rules we are in accordance with applicable law and ISAs required to review certain elements of the report UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to to shareholders by the Board on Directors comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been Corporate governance statement prepared for and only for the Companys members Under the Listing Rules we are required to review as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the part of the Corporate Governance Statement the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
relating to the Companys compliance with nine We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code assume responsibility for any other purpose or to the Code.
We have nothing to report having any other person to whom this report is shown or performed our review.
into whose hands it may come save where expressly On page 90 of the Annual Report, as required by agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members John Minards Senior Statutory Auditor to assess the Groups performance, business model for and on behalf of  LLP and strategy.
On page 71, as required by C3.8 of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the St Albans, Hertfordshire significant issues that it considered in relation to the accounts, and how they were addressed.
Under 18 November 2013 ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
