INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF AGGREKO PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial Our opinion statements comprises applicable law and IFRSs as In our opinion: adopted by the European Union.
The financial The financial statements, defined below, give a reporting framework that has been applied in the true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of preparation of the Company financial statements the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting of the Groups profit and of the Groups cash flows Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted for the year then ended: Accounting Practice.
The Group financial statements have been properly Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting prepared in accordance with International Financial framework have been presented elsewhere in the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Annual Report and Accounts 2013 the Annual European Union: Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the The Company financial statements have been financial statements and are identified as audited.
properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting What an audit of financial statements involves Practice: and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland The financial statements have been prepared in ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining accordance with the requirements of the Companies evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial financial statements sufficient to give reasonable statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
assurance that the financial statements are free from This opinion is to be read in the context of what material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or we say in the remainder of this report.
This includes an assessment of: What we have audited whether the accounting policies are appropriate to The Group financial statements and Company the Groups and Companys circumstances and have financial statements the financial statements, been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: which are prepared by Aggreko plc, comprise: the reasonableness of significant accounting the Group balance sheet and Company balance estimates made by the Directors: and sheet as at 31 December 2013: the overall presentation of the financial statements.
the Group income statement and statement of In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial comprehensive income for the year then ended: information in the Annual Report to identify material the Group cash flow statement for the year inconsistencies with the audited financial statements then ended: and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent the Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of in net debt for the year then ended: performing the audit.
If we become aware of any the Group statement of changes in equity for apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies the year then ended: and we consider the implications for our report.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
108 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 ACCOUNTS Overview of our audit approach In our audit, we tested and examined information, Materiality using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, misstatements both individually and on the financial substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that Based on our professional judgement, we determined required particular focus in the current year.
This is not materiality for the Group financial statements as a a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by whole to be 17 million, being approximately 5% our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the of profit before tax.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would the financial statements is set out on pages 73 and 74. report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted How the scope of reporting for qualitative reasons.
Areas of focus our audit addressed specific to Aggreko the areas of focus Overview of the scope of our audit Contract receivables We tested significant The scope of our audit reflected the new organisational and associated contract receivables, structure of the Group across three regional units which provisioning challenging managements combined large local businesses with Power Projects basis for determining the businesses: APAC, EMEA and Americas.
One of the biggest risks recoverability of and to the Group is nonIn establishing the overall approach to the Group resultant provisioning payment by customers audit, we determined the type of work that needed for balances that were under some of the larger to be performed at reporting units by us, as the outstanding at the year contracts in the Power Group engagement team, or component auditors end, had not been paid Projects business.
within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms in accordance with operating under our instruction.
Where the work was We focused on this area contractual terms or performed by component auditors, we determined the due to the magnitude were subject to dispute.
level of involvement we needed to have in the audit of both the accounts work at those reporting units to be able to conclude receivable balances whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had and the associated been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the provisions, which are Group financial statements as a whole.
determined based on managements estimates.
Through a combination of full scope audits and directed scope procedures, we performed Group audit Provision for taxation We challenged work at the reporting units across the Group that we Direct and Indirect managements processes considered to be most significant.
This, together with Taxes in higher risk for determining the additional procedures performed at the Group level, territories required provision and gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the judgements they made.
We focused on this the Group financial statements as a whole.
area given the varied, We discussed and Areas of particular audit focus complex and often considered the potential In preparing the financial statements, the Directors uncertain nature of tax tax exposures with Group made a number of judgements, for example in respect rules in certain countries, management and in-house of significant accounting estimates that involved in particular where tax specialists.
making assumptions and considering future events the Group has Power We utilised our experience that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused Projects businesses.
of similar situations our work in these areas by assessing the Directors elsewhere to independently judgements against available evidence, forming our assess the evidence own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in described above.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 109 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF AGGREKO PLC CONTINUED Areas of focus required How the scope of OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 presumed by ISAs our audit addressed UK & Ireland the areas of focus In our opinion: Risk of management We tested key the information given in the Strategic Report override of internal reconciliations and and the Directors Report for the financial year controls manual journal entries.
for which the financial statements are prepared We considered whether is consistent with the financial statements: and ISAs UK & Ireland there was evidence of require that we the part of the Directors Remuneration Report bias by the Directors in consider this.
to be audited has been properly prepared in the significant accounting accordance with the Companies Act 2006. estimates and judgements relevant to the financial OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED statements.
We also TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION assessed the overall control Adequacy of accounting records and information environment of the Group, and explanations received including the arrangements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required for staff to whistle-blow to report to you if, in our opinion: inappropriate actions, and we have not received all the information and interviewed management explanations we require for our audit: or and the Groups internal audit function.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit Fraud in revenue We focused our audit have not been received from branches not visited recognition procedures on testing by us: or revenue recognition ISAs UK & Ireland from significant customer the Company financial statements and the part of presume there is a risk contracts within the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited of fraud in revenue Power Projects business are not in agreement with the accounting records recognition.
by agreeing revenue and returns.
recognised to contract We have no exceptions to report arising from this documentation and responsibility.
Directors remuneration Going concern Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures Directors Statement, set out on page 106, in relation of Directors remuneration specified by law have not to going concern.
We have nothing to report having been made.
We have no exceptions to report arising performed our review.
As noted in the Directors Statement, the Directors Corporate Governance Statement have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review Groups and Companys financial statements using the the part of the Corporate Governance Statement going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern relating to the Companys compliance with nine basis presumes that the Group and Company have provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Code.
We have nothing to report having the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year performed our review.
from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
110 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 ACCOUNTS On page 106 of the Annual Report, as required by RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole Our responsibilities and those of the Directors to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides As explained more fully in the Directors the information necessary for members to assess the Responsibilities Statement set out on page 106, Groups performance, business model and strategy.
the Directors are responsible for the preparation of On pages 73 and 74, as required by C. 3.8 of the the Group and Company financial statements and Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
issues that it considered in relation to the financial Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion statements, and how they were addressed.
Under on the Group and Company financial statements in ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & you if, in our opinion: Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the statement given by the Directors is materially the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group for Auditors.
acquired in the course of performing our audit: or This report, including the opinions, has been the section of the Annual Report describing the prepared for and only for the Companys members work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 address matters communicated by us to the Audit of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Committee, as required by the Code Provision C. 3.8.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any We have no exceptions to report arising from this other person to whom this report is shown or into responsibility.
whose hands it may come save where expressly Other information in the Annual Report agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or Graham McGregor Senior Statutory Auditor materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of for and on behalf of the Group and Company acquired in the course  LLP of performing our audit: or Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors is otherwise misleading.
Glasgow 6 March 2014 We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 111
