INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC We have audited the financial statements of Electrocomponents plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception for the year ended 31 March 2013 set out on pages 59 to 102.
The We have nothing to report in respect of the following: financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International in our opinion: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and UK Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. with the accounting records and returns: or Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them certain disclosures of Directors remuneration speci ed by law are in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent not made: or permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to we have not received all the information and explanations we anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, require for our audit.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: we have formed.
the Directors statement, set out on page 41, in relation to Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor going concern: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 37 set out on page 57, the Directors are responsible for the preparation relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true the UK Corporate Governance Code speci ed for our review: and and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Directors remuneration.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Paul Sawdon Senior Statutory Auditor A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
15 Canada Square London Opinion on financial statements E14 5GL In our opinion: 23 May 2013 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2013 and of the Groups pro t for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
58 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
