123 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ENQUEST PLC We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Opinion on financial statements EnQuest PLC for the year ended 31 December 2013 which In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes ``give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys 1 to 15.
The financial reporting framework that has been affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its loss for the year applied in their preparation is applicable law and United then ended: Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally ``have been properly prepared in accordance with United Accepted Accounting Practice.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and ``have been prepared in accordance with the requirements This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a of the Companies Act 2006. body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Act 2006 so that we might state to the Companys members those In our opinion: matters we are required to state to them in an auditors ``the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent audited has been properly prepared in accordance with permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility the Companies Act 2006: and to anyone other than the Company and the Companys ``the information given in the Strategic Report and the members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for Directors Report for the financial year for which the the opinions we have formed.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Matters on which we are required to report by exception Responsibilities set out on page 122, the Directors are We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters responsible for the preparation of the parent Company financial where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair if, in our opinion: view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on ``adequate accounting records have not been kept by the the parent Company financial statements in accordance with parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and not been received from branches not visited by us: or Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing ``the parent Company financial statements and the part of Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements ``certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and law are not made: or disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give ``we have not received all the information and explanations reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free we require for our audit.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Other matter policies are appropriate to the parent Companys We have reported separately on the Group financial statements circumstances and have been consistently applied and of EnQuest PLC for the year ended 31 December 2013. adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall Ernst & Young LLP presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read Gary Donald Senior Statutory Auditor all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with London the audited financial statements and to identify any 25 March 2014 information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
For more information visit: www.
