Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Enterprise Inns plc We have audited the financial statements of Enterprise Inns plc for the year ended 30 September 2013 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 62, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We consider that the following areas present the greatest risk of material misstatement in the financial statements and consequently have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources and, the efforts of the engagement team, including the more senior members of the team: the valuation of the pub estate, including those assets held for sale: the calculation of the deferred tax provision, in respect of that element of the provision associated with the revaluation of the pub estate: the impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill: and the continued use of the going concern assumption.
Revenue recognition and the risk of fraud arising from management override of internal control have been addressed.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement we define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial statements, would be changed or influenced.
We also determine a lower level of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 6.1 million, which is approximately 5% of adjusted pre-exceptional pre-tax profit.
We use pre-exceptional profit to exclude the impact of exceptional items which do not reflect the underlying performance of the Group.
112 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
com Stock code: ETI for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 112 10 12 2013 14:20:20 On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that performance materiality for the Group should be 50% of materiality, namely 3.0 million.
Our approach is designed to have a reasonable probability of ensuring that the total of uncorrected and undetected audit differences does not exceed our materiality of 6.1 million for the financial statements as a whole.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.3 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit Enterprise operates from a single office and has common financial systems, processes and controls covering all of its operations.
There are four legal entities accounting for 100% of the Groups revenue, 100% operating profit and 100% of total assets, one being the Company itself, and all of which were subject to full scope audits for the year ended 30 September 2013.
The audits of these entities are performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to a proportion of the Group materiality appropriate to the relevant scale of the business concerned.
The audit of all the companies within the Group is undertaken by the Group audit team.
Due to the nature of the main risk areas noted above, the Group audit team is supported by experts in property valuations, taxation and the evaluation of a weighted average cost of capital.
The principal way in which we scoped our response to the risks noted above was as follows: We performed detailed sample testing whereby individual movements in pub values were investigated and validated.
In order to select a sample focused more on those pub valuations we considered to be most at risk of misstatement, we analysed features including the trading performance of the individual pub, the nature of the rent agreement and managements qualitative analysis of pubs within the overall estate to identify those pubs, or classes of pubs, where the movement in value was not consistent with our expectations.
In addition, together with our valuation expert, we met with the internal and external valuers to discuss and challenge the methodology adopted, the nature and extent of the work they performed in preparing the valuations, and to seek explanations for the movement in the value of the pub estate as a whole, movement in the value of appropriate sub divisions of the pub estate, and where necessary, movement in the value of individual pubs.
Through the use of a combination of known scenarios and a randomly selected sample across the estate, we reperformed the calculation of deferred tax to validate the ability of the model utilised by the Group to calculate deferred tax on the pub estate and to ensure that the model has been established to correctly apply current tax legislation and enacted tax rates.
We also challenged the overall proof of tax prepared by management on a performance statement basis and challenged whether movements in the year were in line with our expectations and investigated those that were not.
We examined the Groups forecast cash flows which underpin both the goodwill impairment review and the going concern assessment, discussed those forecasts with management and challenged their reasonableness taking into account the accuracy of previous forecasts and the evidence supporting underlying assumptions.
We challenged the reasonableness of the key assumptions of discount rate and long-term growth underlying the goodwill impairment review, through a combination of benchmarking against comparator companies and an independent assessment by our experts based on general market indicators.
We also recalculated the forecast compliance with the terms of the covenants to which the Group and subsidiaries are subject, taking account of the relevant terms of the securitised debt structure.
We carried out testing relating to controls over revenue recognition and in particular the timing of revenue recognition, the treatment of discounts and changes due to the new agreements with individual Publicans.
We also performed substantive testing and analytical procedures to validate that the revenue recognition procedures adopted complied with IFRS: and Finally, we performed analytical procedures and journal entry testing in order to identify and test the risk of fraud arising from management override of controls, which in addition to the risks disclosed above, focused on those elements of working capital capable of being manipulated by management.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 113 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 113 10 12 2013 14:20:20 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Enterprise Inns Plc Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2013 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 31, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Nigel Meredith Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 18 November 2013 114 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
