Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 74 74 www.
com Heading Independent Auditors Report Strapline to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Opinion on financial statements of Euromoney Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Institutional Investor PLC The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that In our opinion: had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: groups and of the parent companys affairs as at September 30 2013 acquisition accounting for the new businesses acquired, being TTI and of the groups profit for the year then ended: Vanguard, Insider Publishing, Quantitative Techniques and CIE, as the group financial statements have been properly prepared in well as the ongoing accounting for acquisition commitments on accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs previous acquisitions including NDR.
Each acquisition is typically as adopted by the European Union: structured in a different manner, resulting in judgement over the the parent company financial statements have been properly accounting as well as over the assumptions used in the fair value prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted acquisition accounting assessment, including the identification of Accounting Practice: and intangible assets: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the the assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group assets.
Management is required to carry out an annual impairment financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
test which incorporates judgements based on assumptions about the future cash flows of the businesses and discount rates applied to The group financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income those cash flows: Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the revenue recognition, including deferred income on subscription and Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement delegate revenue: of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the the continued requirement for significant provisions and accruals related notes 1 to 30.
The parent company financial statements comprise including the provision for impairment of trade receivables: the company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 19.
The financial the presentation of adjusting items, in particular the quantum and reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the consistency of the items included in the reconciliation from statutory group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by profit to the non-statutory adjusted profit: the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been the appropriateness of capitalisation of internally-generated applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements intangible assets, in particular in relation to the global content is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United management system: and Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the groups exposure to tax risks through open items with tax authorities accrued for in several jurisdictions, in particular in the US, Going concern and the recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the contained within the Directors Report that the group is a going concern.
context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to We confirm that: express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks conditions that may cast significant doubt on the groups ability described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual to continue as a going concern which we believe would need to matters.
be disclosed in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Our application of materiality we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and appropriate.
For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement we define However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on a going concern.
the financial statements, would be changed or influenced.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75 75 When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude we carried out testing in relation to revenue using a combination of of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the analytical procedures and substantive testing, focusing in particular financial statements as a whole.
We determined planning materiality for on the reconciliation of deferred subscription income to subscription the group to be 5.7 million, which is approximately 5% of adjusted fulfillment reports and the treatment of income and costs on events operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term spanning the period end: incentive expense and exceptional items.
We use this profit measure as it we challenged managements assumptions around provisions, is a key measure of business performance for the group.
including specifically US sales tax provisions, onerous lease commitments and employee tax exposures on share option liabilities We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them as well challenging the continued requirement for the provision for all audit differences in excess of 114,000, based on 2% of planning impairment of trade receivables: materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, we considered the appropriateness, consistency and completeness of warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
the items classified as adjusting items and the related disclosures in the financial statements: An overview of the scope of our audit we have tested the costs capitalised in respect of the global content management system as set out in note 11, assessing whether the Our group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work at ten nature of those costs met the criteria for capitalisation under the components.
Six of these were subject to a full scope audit.
A further groups accounting policy and whether they were directly attributable four components were subject to specified audit procedures where the to the development of the content management system: and extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material we assessed the adequacy of accruals made in respect of items under misstatement and of the materiality of the groups business operations at discussion with the tax authorities and the anticipated resolution of those locations.
Together with the central functions which were also subject those items.
We challenged the recognition of deferred tax assets to a full scope audit, these components represent the principal business and whether sufficient taxable profits were expected to be generated units of the group and account for 79% of revenue and 85% of adjusted in the relevant jurisdictions in which they arise.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement The audit committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 40. identified above.
The work at these ten components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were much Opinion on other matters prescribed by the lower than group materiality.
The remaining components were subject to Companies Act 2006 analytical review procedures designed to confirm that no further risks of In our opinion: misstatement existed that were material to the group financial statements.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits and that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors senior member of the group audit team visits the nine larger locations Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are where the group audit scope was focused at least once a year.
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
The way in which we scoped our response to the risks identified above Matters on which we are required to report by was as follows: exception we carried out testing on the acquisitions made in the year.
We have Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records tested the valuation of intangible assets identified by management Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in on acquisitions, challenging key assumptions relating to royalty rates, our opinion: short and long term growth rates and discount rates.
We have also we have not received all the information and explanations we require challenged managements assumptions used in the valuation of for our audit: or the deferred consideration and put option liabilities, predominantly adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent relating to the profit forecasts of the acquired businesses: company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received we challenged managements assumptions used in the impairment from branches not visited by us: or model for goodwill and intangible assets, described in note 11 to the the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with financial statements, including specifically the cash flow projections, the accounting records and returns.
discount rates and sensitivities used: We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 independent Auditors Report Group Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 76 76 www.
com Heading Independent Auditors Report Strapline to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC continued Directors remuneration Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under the by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the Directors policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to report arising from these circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately matters or our review.
disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Corporate Governance Statement In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge nothing to report arising from our review.
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report implications for our report.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Robert Matthews Senior Statutory Auditor apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor performing our audit: or London, United Kingdom is otherwise misleading.
November 13 2013 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
