INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EVRAZ PLC We have audited the Group Financial Statements of EVRAZ plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Operations, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 111, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Group Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Group Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Group Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Group Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Group Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Group Financial Statements In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Goodwill, investment and non-current asset impairment Going concern The valuation and classification of assets held for sale Our application of materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be $54.7 million, which is 3% of EBITDA.
Our materiality amount provided a basis for determining the nature and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature and extent of further audit procedures.
We assessed our materiality calculation based on the EBITDA of the Group as we considered that to be the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance materiality ie, our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 50% of materiality, namely $27.3 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $2.7 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group Financial Statements, our Group audit scope focused on the Groups main operating locations.
We selected 16 components covering entities within Russia, Ukraine, Switzerland and the USA, which represent the principal business units within the Group and account for 89% of the Groups EBITDA.
Six of these were subject to a full scope audit, whilst the remaining 10 were subject to audit procedures on specific accounts based on our assessment of the coverage obtained from full scope audits, the risks of material misstatement and the materiality of the Groups business operations.
These components were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The audit work on the 16 components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity, which were lower than Group materiality.
For the remaining components, we performed other procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the Group Financial Statements.
The audit work in respect of the full scope locations was undertaken by separate component teams under the direction and supervision of the Group team.
For components subject to audit procedures on specific accounts the work was undertaken either by separate component teams or directly by members of the Group audit team as appropriate.
The senior statutory auditor is based in the UK but, since group management and operations reside in Russia, the Group audit team includes members from both the UK and Russia.
The senior statutory auditor visited Russia three times during the current years audit and there was regular interaction between team members within both jurisdictions.
114 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements Visits were undertaken by the Group team to component teams in the USA, Russia and Ukraine.
The Group audit team interacts regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
Our principal responses to the risks identified above were as follows: Goodwill, investments and non-current asset impairment Refer to the Group Audit Committee report on page 83, the estimates and judgments on page 133 to 135 and the disclosures of impairment in Note 6 of the Group Financial Statements.
Our audit procedures included the challenge of managements assumptions used in their impairment models.
We also tested the integrity of models with the assistance of our own specialists.
We critically assessed the appropriateness of estimates included in the models and we challenged and carried out audit procedures on managements sensitivity calculations.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures provided in the Group Financial Statements.
Going concern Refer to the Group Audit Committee report on page 83, the Directors report on page 105 and within significant accounting policies on page 123.
With the assistance of our own specialists we performed audit procedures on, and challenged the accuracy and integrity of, managements cash flow projections and the related assumptions.
We assessed the need for and availability of additional finance facilities by challenging managements assumptions of discretionary spend and obtaining evidence of committed and uncommitted facilities and other potential sources of funding.
We considered the appropriateness of the disclosures made in the Group Financial Statements in respect of going concern.
In addition, we challenged managements consideration of the possible impact of the current political situation in Ukraine and related political sanctions on forecasts used for going concern modelling and the consideration of the recoverability of assets.
The valuation and classification of assets held for sale Refer to accounting judgments within significant accounting policies on page 133 in Note 2 and the related Note 12 of the Group Financial Statements.
Our audit procedures included the challenge of managements assumptions as to the probability of sale completion within a period of 12 months from the balance sheet date based on the facts in relation to the progress of each sales process.
We challenged managements assumptions as to the valuation of amounts classified as assets held for sale and the evidence available to support the estimated sales proceeds.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 105, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements of EVRAZ plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Ken Williamson Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 8 April 2014 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the EVRAZ plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 115
