82 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FERREXPO PLC We have audited the financial statements of Ferrexpo plc for the year the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Parent Company financial statements have been properly the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Accepted Accounting Practice: and Equity, the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with to 40 for the Group financial statements and notes 1 to 7 for the the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements.
The financial reporting Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable directing the efforts of the engagement team: law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom the recoverability and classification of Ukrainian VAT receivable: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the valuation of the investment in Ferrous Resources: related party transactions: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, the potential impact of recent political and economic disturbance in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act in Ukraine on the financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state Our application of materiality to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the We determined materiality for the Group to be US$15.3 million which fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume is 5% of pre-tax profit.
Our materiality amount provided a basis for responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the determining the nature and extent of our risk assessment Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material or for the opinions we have formed.
misstatement and determining the nature and extent of further audit procedures.
We assessed our materiality calculation based on the Respective responsibilities of the Directors and Auditor profit before tax of the Group as we considered that to be the most As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
set out on page 81, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 75% of standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards materiality, namely US$11.4 million.
Our objective in adopting this Ethical Standards for Auditors.
approach was to ensure that total detected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning materiality Scope of the audit of the financial statements level.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the assurance that the financial statements are free from material Committee all audit differences in excess of US$0.8 million, as well misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to reporting on qualitative grounds.
the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the An overview of the scope of our audit reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the consolidated Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In financial statements, our group audit scope focused on two addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the operating locations, Ukraine and Switzerland at which four Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with subsidiaries were subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 31 the audited financial statements and to identify any information that December 2013.
Due to certain insignificant loss making subsidiaries is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent that were out of scope for our Group audit, the coverage of Group with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the profit before tax achieved from the entities within our Group scope audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements was greater than 100%.
In addition to full scope audits, specific audit or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
procedures were undertaken on certain accounts within five further subsidiaries based either in the Groups principal operating locations Opinion on financial statements or in other regions where the Group operates.
The extent of audit In our opinion: work on these five entities was based on our assessment of the risks the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the of material misstatement and on the materiality of the Groups Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December business operations in that subsidiary.
These subsidiaries were also 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: 83 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
The audit work for the in scope subsidiaries was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity, which were lower Matters on which we are required to report by exception than group materiality.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, The senior statutory auditor visited Ukraine and Switzerland where in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: all full scope component teams are based and where the majority of materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial the Groups operations are based.
For all full scope locations, in statements: or addition to the site visits, the Group team reviewed key working apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially papers and directed the component teams planning and execution inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the of the responses to the risks.
course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Our principal responses to the risks identified above were as follows: In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified The recoverability and classification of Ukrainian VAT any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the receivable audit and the Directors Statement that they consider the Annual We have tested the validity of the amounts claimed from the Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Ukrainian government, including those currently in dispute.
Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated We challenged management`s assumptions relating to the to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been recoverability, classification and measurement of the balance.
We agreed the related disclosure provided in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: The valuation of the investment in Ferrous Resources adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent We challenged managements conclusions for the classification Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been and basis of measurement of the investment.
received from branches not visited by us: or We challenged managements assumptions related to the the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the determination of the fair value of the available-for-sale investment Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in in Ferrous Resources.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are Related party transactions not made: or We understood and verified managements process for identifying we have not received all the information and explanations we related parties and recording related party transactions.
We have assessed managements controls in relation to the assessment and approval of related party transactions and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: verified managements disclosures in respect of the transactions the Directors Statement, set out on page 79, in relation to going are correct.
concern: and Throughout the performance of our audit we remained alert for the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the any evidence of related party transactions that had not been Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK disclosed.
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Consideration of the potential impact of recent political and Ernst & Young LLP economic disturbance in Ukraine on the financial statements Ken Williamson Senior statutory auditor We gained an understanding of the local environment in Ukraine for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor and monitored its impact on the Groups operations through post London balance sheet procedures.
11 March 2014 We challenged managements consideration of the possible impact on forecasts used for impairment and going concern modelling and their consideration of the recoverability of assets.
We read and challenged managements disclosures in the annual report.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited had been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and
