INDEPENDENT A UDITOR S R EPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF A LENT PLC ONLY OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT and we critically assessed the assumptions and judgments made by the Directors by considering the 1.
OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS historical accuracy of forecasts and, based on our IS UNMODIFIED knowledge of the client and the industry in which it operates, the sensitivities of the profit forecasts and We have audited the financial statements of Alent plc for our assessment of the risk of management bias.
the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups Group income statement, the Group statement of disclosures see Note 11 setting out the basis of the comprehensive income, the Group statement of cash deferred tax balance and the level of estimation flows, the Group and parent company balance sheets, involved, as well as the appropriateness of disclosing the Group statement of changes in equity and related the asset recognition within exceptional tax items.
In our opinion: VALUATION OF LITIGATION AND OTHER LIABILITIES 16.1M the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Refer to page 62 Audit Committee statement, page 97 state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs accounting policies and page 130 financial disclosures as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Risk: In providing for estimated known or probable the Group financial statements have been properly costs resulting from both legal and other regulatory prepared in accordance with International Financial requirements, the Directors of the Group use their Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: judgment and experience and, where appropriate, receive external advice.
The completeness and valuation the parent company financial statements have of the provision for legal and environmental claims are been properly prepared in accordance with UK inherently judgmental due to the degree of uncertainty Accounting Standards: and involved.
The risk is that the amount provided in respect the financial statements have been prepared in of legal or environmental claims is over or understated accordance with the requirements of the Companies which could have a material impact on the Groups Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, financial position and results for the year and that the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
disclosures relating to such provisions and contingent liabilities do not properly explain the risks and 2.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF assumptions relating to these.
MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT Our Response: In this area our audit procedures In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial included, among others, assessing whether all current statements the risks of material misstatement that had cases had been appropriately considered by the the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Directors through inspecting, at the reporting component level, the claims reporting received from RECOGNITION OF US DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 6.1M reporting components.
In addition we met in-house Refer to page 62 Audit Committee statement, page 97 legal counsel and management responsible for material accounting policies and page 106 financial disclosures claims to discuss the nature of ongoing claims legal The Risk: The Group has recognised a deferred tax asset and other and analysed external evidence such as in respect of unutilised operating losses arising in the US.
correspondence from regulators and or reports from the In addition the Group has further very significant US Groups external advisers lawyers to challenge the basis losses for which no deferred tax assets have been of provisions recorded.
In addition we obtained formal recognised in these financial statements.
The amount confirmation from the Groups external counsel for a of deferred tax assets if any that it is appropriate to significant litigation.
We also assessed the adequacy recognise in respect of losses is based on judgment in of the Groups disclosures see Note 3 and Note 30 in respect of the timing and quantum of forecast future respect of the description of the claims provided and the profits and the ability of the Groups US components to level of estimation involved in arriving at the provision, as offset any of its accumulated losses against these well as the contingent liabilities disclosure for unprovided expected profits.
The risk is that the amount of the claims in Note 33. deferred tax asset is over or understated.
Our Response: In this area, our audit procedures 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN included, among others, using our own tax specialists to OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT assist us in assessing and challenging the assumptions The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was and judgments made by the Directors.
In assessing the set at 4 million.
This has been determined with reference appropriateness of the level of deferred tax asset to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation which balance recognised in the Group balance sheet we we consider to be one of the principal considerations compared the assumptions used in respect of future for members of the Company in assessing financial taxable income forecasts in the relevant components in performance of the group.
Materiality represents 5% of the US to the Groups long term forecasts for consistency 88 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Group profit before taxation and 5% of Group profit before In particular, we are required to report to you if: taxation adjusted for exceptional items as disclosed on the we have identified material inconsistencies between face of the income statement.
the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all Directors statement that they consider that the Annual corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, through our audit with a value in excess of 0.3 million, in balanced and understandable and provides the addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold information necessary for shareholders to assess the that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Statement does not appropriately Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by address matters communicated by us to the component auditors at the key reporting components in Audit Committee.
the following countries: China, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Netherlands and Taiwan and by the Group audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: team for the United Kingdom.
In addition, specified audit procedures were performed by component auditors in adequate accounting records have not been kept Brazil and the United States of America.
These group by the parent company, or returns adequate for our procedures covered 71% of total Group revenue: 75% of the audit have not been received from branches not total profits and losses before taxation that made up Group visited by us: or profit before taxation: and 95% of total Group assets.
the parent company financial statements and the The remaining 29% of revenue, 25% of the total profits part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be and losses before taxation and 5% of total group assets audited are not in agreement with the accounting is represented by 220 reporting components around records and returns: or the world.
None of these 220 reporting components certain disclosures of Directors remuneration represented more than 3.8% of revenue, profit before tax specified by law are not made: or or total group assets.
Local statutory audits are performed we have not received all the information and over 21 of these components, but generally these are explanations we require for our audit.
completed after the date of this report.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes the Directors statement, set out on page 85, at the key reporting components of the Group were all in relation to going concern: and performed to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on the Group audit team.
These materiality levels were set pages 49 relating to the Companys compliance individually for each component and ranged from with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate 0.2 million to 3 million.
Governance Code specified for our review.
Detailed instructions were sent to all the auditors in these We have nothing to report in respect of the locations.
These instructions covered the significant areas above responsibilities.
that should be addressed by these component auditors which included the relevant risks of material misstatement SCOPE OF REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES detailed above and set out the information required to be As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit Responsibilities set out on page 87, the Directors are team visited the United States and attended the German responsible for the preparation of the financial statements audit close meeting via telephone.
Telephone meetings and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
were also held with the auditors at these locations and all A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is of the countries in all locations in scope for Group reporting provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at purposes that were not physically visited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding 4.
OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE our responsibilities, published on our website at COMPANIES ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are In our opinion: incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be report, the work we have undertaken and the basis audited has been properly prepared in accordance of our opinions.
with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION MICHAEL MALONEY SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants, 15 Canada Square, London, audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either E14 5GL that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 89
