Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Fresnillo plc We have audited the financial statements of Fresnillo plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and parent Company statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent Company balance sheets, the consolidated and parent Company cash flow statements, the consolidated and parent Company statements of changes in equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 147, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 2013 Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Inaccuracies in the recognition of related party transactions, including inappropriate revenue recognition Inappropriate valuation of the Silverstream contract Inappropriate mineral reserves and resources estimation Inaccuracies in the disclosures, provisions and asset values arising from litigation and land disputes Inappropriate assessment of impairment of mining assets | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 149 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Fresnillo plc Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement we define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial statements, would be changed or influenced.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
This materiality is a significant driver of our scoping of the audit.
We calculated materiality at the planning stage of our audit and updated it based on actual full-year results which reflected the continued decline in precious metals prices and the disrupted operations at Minera Penmont as explained in the financial review.
Our final determination of materiality was US$23.6 million, which is 5% of profit before tax and before the effects of the Silverstream revaluation.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that overall performance materiality for the Group should be 75% of final materiality, namely US$17.7 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of US$1.2 million, as well as differences below that threshold that in our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk and our evaluation of materiality determined our audit strategy and scope.
The factors that we considered in our assessment included the following: financial significance, specific risks, effectiveness of the control environment and monitoring activities, including entity-level controls and recent internal audit findings.
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we selected eight components which represent the principal business units within the Group and account for 87% of the Groups profit before tax and 96% of the Groups net assets.
Five of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining three were subject to a partial audit where the extent of audit work was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups business operations at that component.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
For the remaining components, we performed other procedures to confirm that there was no residual risk of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
The Groups significant operations are in Mexico.
All of the components are audited by one local team under our direct supervision.
We visited the local team during all stages of the audit, participated in discussions on fraud and error and reviewed key working papers including but not limited to the risk areas described above.
The audit work at the eight components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual component, which were lower than Group materiality.
Our response to the risks identified above was as follows: We assessed managements process for identifying and recording related party transactions.
We read contracts and agreements with related parties to understand the nature of the transactions.
Throughout the performance of our audit procedures, we remained alert for any related party transactions outside the normal course of business.
We compared actual results against detailed expectations of income statement line items impacted by related party transactions to corroborate that these have not been manipulated through related party relationships.
We performed revenue cut-off testing and evaluated the appropriateness of the application of provisional pricing at year end.
We ensured that related party disclosures in the financial statements are consistent with the knowledge we gained through the performance of our audit procedures.
With the support from our valuation specialists, we evaluated the valuation model used by the Company to determine the fair value of the Silverstream contract.
We challenged managements estimations and judgement with regard to inputs and key assumptions to the model through a comparison to market data and an analysis of the consistency in use of assumptions within other areas of the business.
We assessed the professional competence, objectivity, and capabilities of the experts engaged by the Company to audit reserves and resources estimates.
We ensured that the scope of the work undertaken by the experts was appropriate.
We read the report of the external experts and gained an understanding of the changes in reserves and resources estimates in the year.
We assessed the reasonableness of the estimation method applied by management to arrive at the price at which the ore cut-off grade is determined.
We ensured that this price was not inconsistent with price assumptions applied in other areas of the business.
We ensured that the reserves and resources estimates have been correctly applied to the relevant areas of the Groups financial statements including depreciation, depletion and amortisation, impairment and going concern.
We evaluated managements assessment of the litigation and claims and considered the requirement for any provision and related disclosures.
We challenged managements assessment of the likelihood that further economic benefits will flow from the use of the assets impacted by land disputes and of indicators of impairment in respect of those assets.
Our procedures included obtaining independent legal confirmation letters from the Groups external lawyers handling these issues, holding discussions with management and the Groups internal lawyers, examining underlying discounted cash flow models and analysing pertinent correspondence between the involved parties.
We have examined the valuation models that underpin managements assessment of impairment in respect of the Groups mining assets.
We ensured that the methodology used within the models was compliant with IFRS requirements.
We challenged the inputs and key assumptions in the models through a comparison with external sources of market data and to other areas within the Group financial statements.
| 150 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: The part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and The information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us The parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The directors statement, on page 147, in relation to going concern The part of the corporate governance report relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Nick Gomer Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 3 March 2014 | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 151
