Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc only OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 1.
OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED We have audited the fi financial statements of G4S plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 94 to 150.
In our opinion: the fi financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: the group fi financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company fi financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the fi financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group fi financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT In arriving at our audit opinion above on the fi financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Presentation of the income statement Refer to page 61 Audit Committee Report, page 98 accounting policy and page 108 fi financial disclosures.
The risk In order to give better understanding of the underlying performance of the business, management have presented a view of the underlying results of the group, with separate disclosure of specifi c items.
There is a risk that items included within restructuring and specifi c items are not in accordance with clearly disclosed group accounting policies and therefore the underlying result is misstated.
There is a related presentation risk concerning discontinued operations and held for sale assets and liabilities which are further considered below.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, inter alia, providing detailed instructions to all in-scope audit teams on the defi nitions of items that can be included within these income statement categories to assist them in their assessment of specifi c items identifi ed in their components.
We considered and challenged the work of the group fi finance team in reviewing with the regional and local fi finance teams the basis of any specifi c items.
In doing so we critically assessed their accuracy and presentation of specifi c items taking into account their policy, considered the appropriateness, by reference to accounting standards, of the individual items presented within these categories and therefore excluded from underlying results at both the local and group levels.
We have also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures about the items included within restructuring and specifi c items in notes 8 specifi c items and 34 restructuring and the related accounting policies for these categories on page 98 and on page 101.
Risk of management override of internal controls Refer to page 62 Audit Committee Report.
The risk The fide-centralised structure of the group and the manual nature of many accounting entries means there is a higher risk of management override of fi financial controls.
There is also a risk of management bias within judgements and estimates including those related to the other risks discussed in this report.
The application of management override or biased judgements could be infl uenced by targets on which bonuses are paid which could be signifi cant to the relevant individuals.
This risk affects all areas of the fi financial statements.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, among others, extending the scope of our audit to include businesses where we see a risk of management bias or override of controls see below.
We also mandated certain key audit procedures be performed by all in-scope audit teams to assist in the identifi cation of management override of fi financial controls within the local books and records.
We tested the reconciliations from the group consolidation package to the local books and records for 84% of the group including for those businesses out of scope for the group audit, performed testing on manual journals within all in-scope businesses, performed testing on the group consolidation system, identifying and testing signifi cant unusual transactions and assessing indications of management bias in judgements and estimates.
This work was performed with assistance from our Forensic Accounting specialists.
90 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements Revenue recognition particularly on UK Government contracts and related provisions Refer to page 62 Audit Committee Report, page 102 accounting policy and page 134 fi financial disclosures.
The risk The group delivers outsourcing services that can be complex in nature and may be governed by unique and complex contractual arrangements.
In these circumstances there is a heightened risk of inaccurate billing and revenue recognition.
In particular the group was subject to a number of inquiries in relation to the accuracy of billing and services provided on certain of its UK Government contracts.
There was an investigation into an electronic monitoring contract where the Ministry of Justice alleged the group has overcharged for certain aspects of the services.
There was a risk that revenue recognition on these contracts is not in accordance with contractual entitlements and therefore provisions may be required for refunds due e. g. to the UK Government or costs of termination.
There was further a risk that the provisions for refunds are not appropriately disclosed and presented.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, among others, reviewing the sales process on complex and signifi cant contracts in order to critically assess controls over process risks which might lead to revenue recognition issues, and comparing the contractual terms of the relevant agreements to the accounting treatment adopted.
We made inquiries with contract managers and reviewed customer correspondence to identify, investigate and evaluate any areas of dispute or subjectivity within contracts and related billing, meeting with the companys legal advisors to discuss their advice on any areas of interpretation within the contract.
We also considered the recovery of signifi cant overdue receivables including seeking external evidence of likely recovery, taking into account the ageing of receivables and comparing any provision to recovery levels post year end.
We inspected correspondence with the Government and its appointed advisers.
Based on those inquiries we recalculated the quantum of potential exposures and critically assessed the judgements made by management as to the provision made for the settlement of any and all claims arising from these contracts.
Full and fi final settlement in respect of the Ministry of Justice claims was reached in March 2014.
We have evaluated the adequacy of the groups disclosures about the UK Government settlement and amounts recognised within the fi financial statements as revenue and provisions.
Compliance with foreign ownership rules and consolidation of subsidiaries Refer to page 62 Audit Committee Report, page 98 and 105 accounting policy and pages 140 and 141 fi financial disclosures.
The risk The group is required to comply with sometimes complex or imprecise foreign ownership rules in the countries in which it operates.
There is a risk that the rules may be interpreted in different ways.
In some instances the group operates through local structures with limited direct share ownership of the business but exercising control through shareholder agreements.
These structures can mean there is a higher level of judgement required in deciding whether or not to consolidate the underlying business or treat the operation as a joint venture associate investment.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, inter alia, understanding the structure of local businesses and evaluating whether they are in compliance with local foreign ownership rules involving local lawyers where applicable.
We also challenge the Directors conclusions on whether or not consolidation was appropriate by comparing the rights bestowed by share ownership and all related ownership and management agreements to the requirements set out in the relevant accounting standards.
We have also evaluated the adequacy of the groups disclosures about the degree of judgement as to which businesses can be consolidated in note 4 and the reasons for consolidating those businesses with less than 50% ownership in note 3 and note 43.
Recoverable value of goodwill and other intangible assets Refer to page 62 Audit Committee Report, page 100 accounting policy and page 115 fi financial disclosures.
The risk The group has 2.2 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets.
Although the majority of this relates to business units where the carrying value is exceeded by the calculated Value In Use by a signifi cant margin, in the current economic environment there is a risk of impairment related to particular business units within the group.
The estimation of the recoverable amount of cash generating units requires signifi cant judgement in relation to the appropriate discount rates, growth rates, terminal values, forecast cashfl ows and, where the fair value less costs to sell approach is used, the appropriate fair value multiple.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, among others, challenging the forecast earnings and cash fl ows over the fi five year forecast period, for example by comparison to historic results and budgets and by seeking explanations for any assumed trends and growth rates.
We also challenged the discount rates and terminal values and, where a fair value less costs to sell approach is used, challenged the multiples employed.
Where possible we compared the groups assumptions to externally derived data.
Our valuations specialists assisted in the evaluation of the more subjective and material cash generating units.
We challenged the groups sensitivities to help us assess whether the key assumptions and drivers considered are correctly identifi ed.
We compared the groups aggregate recoverable amount to its market capitalisation.
We have also assessed the adequacy of the groups disclosures on goodwill impairments see note 19 and considered whether the sensitivity analysis provided properly refl ects the risks inherent within the estimate of the recoverable amount of goodwill.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 91 Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc only continued Discontinued operations and held for sale assets and liabilities Refer to page 62 Audit Committee Report, page 103 accounting policy and pages 108 and 121 fi financial disclosures.
The risk The group often has business disposals underway at any reporting date.
Given the judgement involved, there is a risk that any such businesses may not meet the accounting standards criteria for presentation as discontinued at the balance sheet date as either they are not a separate major line of business, the Directors are not committed to the sale and that sale is not highly probable, or the business has not been exited.
The results of discontinued businesses are presented below profi t before tax on the face of the income statement and therefore any profi ts losses from discontinued businesses are not included within underlying PBITA being the groups own key fi financial KPI.
Were the group to incorrectly classify a loss making business as discontinued a higher underlying PBITA would result.
For the US Government Solutions business, which is presented as held for sale, the calculation of the fair value less costs to sell is subject to judgement due to a range of potential sales prices and assumptions around the method and quantum of recovery of working capital balances.
This subjectivity creates a risk around the determination of an appropriate fair value for the business and therefore the appropriate impairment recognised.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, amongst others, using our knowledge of the business to perform an assessment of whether the businesses constitute separate major lines of business or geographical areas of operations.
We also obtained and evaluated evidence to critically challenge the level of the Directors commitment to sell the businesses classifi ed as held for sale and to critically challenge the probability of those sales at the balance sheet date.
We sought external evidence of likely sales prices and compared these to the net book value of the held for sale assets and liabilities to assess whether any further impairment was required.
For those businesses being wound down and therefore being classifi ed as discontinued on the basis that the business has been exited, we sought external evidence that the group is no longer operating that business.
We have also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures about discontinued operations and held for sale assets in notes 7 and 26.
Taxation exposures and provisions Refer to page 63 Audit Committee Report, page 102 accounting policy and page 111 fi financial disclosures.
The risk The group is required to make estimates of tax provisions in jurisdictions and or circumstances where the application of the tax rules is complex, uncertain and in some cases inconsistent.
Our response Our audit procedures included, consideration of each signifi cant exposure on a case by case basis taking into account our understanding of the facts, any specifi c advice the group has received, past experience and any relevant observations of our tax specialists.
Using this information we conducted a critical review of the groups judgement as to the provision required.
We have also evaluated the adequacy of the groups disclosures about the tax provisions and contingencies in note 14 and the level of estimation uncertainty in the tax provisions in note 3 r. 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT The materiality for the group fi financial statements as a whole was set at 10m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of group loss before tax, adjusted for non-recurring items including restructuring costs, specifi c items and goodwill impairment, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the fi financial performance of the group.
Materiality represents 4.9% of group profi t before tax adjusted for these items and 4.4% of group profi t before tax from continuing operations as disclosed on the face of the income statement.
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identifi ed through our audit with a value in excess of 0.5m for errors impacting profi t and in excess of 4m for balance sheet only misclassifi cations, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed by component auditors at the key reporting components in 42 countries.
In addition, specifi ed audit procedures were performed by component auditors in a further 42 countries.
These group procedures covered: Group revenue Audit for group reporting purposes 81% Specifi c audit procedures 13% Not covered 6% The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the group were all performed to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the group audit team.
These materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from 0.02m to 5m.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these locations.
These instructions covered the signifi cant audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the group audit team.
The group audit team visited the following locations: the Philippines, Ireland, South Africa, Botswana, Peru, Brazil, Saudi Arabia, India, Belgium, Finland, Denmark and the United Kingdom.
Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors of 25 signifi cant countries as part of the planning process and a further 22 high risk countries as part of the audit close out process.
The remaining 6% of revenue includes no components which individually represent more than 0.4% of revenue.
92 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements 4.
OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the fi financial year for which the fi financial statements are prepared is consistent with the fi financial statements.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF THE MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identifi ed other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the fi financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identifi ed material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and fi financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company fi financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specifi ed by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 83, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 53 in the Chairmans letter relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specifi ed for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
SCOPE OF REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 83, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the fi financial statements and for being satisfi ed that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of fi financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
John Luke Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 31 March 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 93
