INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing Report on the Group financial statements the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material Our opinion misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the In our opinion the Group financial statements, defined below: implications for our report.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs Overview of our audit approach as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash Materiality flows for the year then ended: We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped have been properly prepared in accordance with us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements both adopted by the European Union: and individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the to be 23 million.
In arriving at this judgement we had remainder of this report.
regard to 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for the change in fair value of derivative and other financial instruments What we have audited due to the fluctuating nature of these items which have a The Group financial statements, which are prepared by disproportionate impact on the Group income statement.
GKN plc, comprise: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: to them misstatements identified during our audit above the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount, which statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then Overview of the scope of our audit ended: and The Group is structured along four segments being Aerospace, Driveline, Powder Metallurgy and Land Systems with each the notes to the Consolidated financial statements, which division set up to manage operations on both a regional and include a summary of significant accounting policies and a functional basis.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 220 The financial reporting framework that has been applied active reporting units, comprising the Groups operating in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs businesses and centralised functions.
as adopted by the European Union.
Aerospace reporting units are based predominantly in the Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting UK, USA and Sweden.
Driveline reporting units are based framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual in 21 countries with Europe and North America being the Report and Accounts Annual Report, rather than in the largest regions.
Powder Metallurgy reporting units are based notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced predominantly in North America with other sites in Europe from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Land Systems reporting units are based What an audit of financial statements involves predominantly in Europe and North America.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
we determined the type of work that needed to be performed An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and at the reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
was performed by component auditors, we determined the This includes an assessment of: level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for and adequately disclosed: our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates Accordingly, of the Groups 220 active reporting units, we made by the Directors: and identified 56 which, in our view, required an audit of their the overall presentation of the financial statements.
complete financial information, either due to their size or In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial their risk characteristics.
These reporting units accounted information in the Annual Report to identify material for 65% of Group revenue.
inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions and to identify any information that is apparently materially were performed at a further 36 reporting units with due incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 102 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION consideration paid to obtaining global coverage on a rotational uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas basis.
These specific audit procedures accounted for a further by assessing the Directors judgements against available 25% of Group revenue.
evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
This, together with additional procedures performed at In our audit, we tested and examined information, using Group level on the remaining reporting units, which included, sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we but were not limited to, procedures in respect of postconsidered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for employment obligations, treasury, taxation together with us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments and testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures other procedures we considered appropriate, gave us the or a combination of both.
evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list Areas of particular audit focus of all risks identified by our audit or areas of focus identified In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered of significant accounting estimates that involved making to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements assumptions and considering future events that are inherently is set out on pages 73 and 74.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Assessment of the carrying value of the We evaluated the Directors impairment model including comparing them to the latest Board intangible and tangible assets in connection with approved budgets, and challenged the assumptions therein.
the A350 programme at Western Approach We challenged the Directors key assumptions over the number of aircraft sets to be We focused on this area because the Directors produced and their associated timings, costs to complete the design and development and assessment of the recoverability of this future production costs.
programmes tangible and intangible assets We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of material cost, production totalling 191 million involves complex and and assembly hours, programme timings which included potential delays and the effects subjective judgments and assumptions about the of foreign exchange changes included in the cash flow forecasts.
progress and future results of this programme.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the assets to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such movement in those key assumptions arising.
Fraud in revenue recognition As the foundation of the evidence we obtained regarding the revenue recognised during the year, we evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls over the ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue recognised in the financial statements.
fraud in revenue recognition because of the pressure management may feel to achieve the We tested the timing of revenue recognition, taking into account contractual obligations, planned results.
and in particular assessed whether the Group had appropriately recorded revenue based on whether complex contractual arrangements, such as bill and hold arrangements, and We focused on this area because the timing of long term contract accounting had been appropriately applied.
revenue recognition and its presentation in the income statement has inherent complexities and We assessed managements judgements and validated their accuracy by agreement to post requires the Directors to exercise judgement.
year end settlements reached with customers.
The complexities and judgement include, but are We also responded to the risk that manual adjustments could override standard procedures not limited to: to misstate revenue by auditing manuals journals relating to revenue so as to identify unusual or irregular items.
the pricing of non-contractually agreed elements of revenue, such as rebates and on-going pricing discussions with customers: and the recognition of revenue within specific revenue risk sharing partnerships RRSPs and bill and hold arrangements within the Aerospace segment.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, interviewed senior management and the ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider Groups Corporate audit function and reviewed the Board minutes of the Company.
this because management is in a unique position to perpetrate fraud as a result of their We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial ability to manipulate accounting records and statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material prepare fraudulent financial statements by misstatement due to fraud.
We planned unpredictability into our audit plan and executed overriding controls that otherwise appear procedures which included testing of immaterial items and performing procedures on to be operating effectively.
We also tested key reconciliations and journal entries to identify unusual or irregular items.
com 103 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill We evaluated the Directors future cash flow forecasts, including comparing them to the and other relevant assets latest Board approved budgets, and challenged the assumptions therein.
We focused on this area because the Directors We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of revenue growth and margin assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and improvement included in the cash flow forecasts and the discount rate, long term growth other relevant assets involves complex and rate or earnings multiple.
subjective judgements and assumptions about Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or the progress and future results of the businesses.
collectively would be required for the assets to be impaired, we considered the likelihood Refer to note 11 to the financial statements.
of such movement in those key assumptions arising.
Aerospace Engine Systems accounting We evaluated the Directors future cash flow forecasts, including comparing them to the Board approved acquisition plan, and challenged the assumptions therein.
We focused on this area because the Directors reassessment of the provisional opening We challenged the Directors key assumptions in respect of the valuation of the intangible balance sheet involves complex and subjective assets identified, including the number of aircrafts, aircraft engine lives and production judgements and assumptions about the progress costs included in the cashflow forecasts.
and future results of the businesses.
In addition we considered the completeness and accuracy of liabilities recorded.
Refer to note 1 to the financial statements.
Going Concern Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part statement, set out on page 101, in relation to going concern.
of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have to report having performed our review.
concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of On page 101 of the annual report, as required by the Code accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date understandable and provides the information necessary for the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we members to assess the Groups performance, business model have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern and strategy.
On pages 73 and 74, as required by C. 3.8 of the basis is appropriate.
Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and However, because not all future events or conditions can how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to required to report to you if, in our opinion: the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
the statement given by the Directors is materially Opinion on matters prescribed by the inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired Companies Act 2006 in the course of performing our audit: or In our opinion the information given in the strategic report the section of the annual report describing the work of the and the Directors report for the financial year for which the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this Other matters on which we are required to report by responsibility.
exception Other information in the Annual Report Adequacy of information and explanations received Under ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no materially inconsistent with the information in the audited exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Group financial statements: or Directors remuneration apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors in the course of performing our audit: or remuneration specified by law have not been made.
We have is otherwise misleading.
no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
104 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 101, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of GKN plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
IAN CHAMBERS SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR FOR AND ON BEHALF OF  LLP CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND STATUTORY AUDITORS BIRMINGHAM 24 February 2014 a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
