Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared under UK GAAP Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc Report on the Parent Company financial statements Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and Our Opinion explanations received In our opinion, the Parent Company financial statements defined Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, below: in our opinion: g ive a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys we have not received all the information and explanations we affairs at 31 December 2013: require for our audit: or h ave been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Company or returns adequate for our audit have not been received h ave been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the from branches not visited by us: or Companies Act 2006. the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in remainder of this report.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
What we have audited The Parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by Directors remuneration GlaxoSmithKline plc, comprise: Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, t he Parent Company balance sheet at 31 December 2013: and in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to t he notes to the Parent Company financial statements, which report arising from this responsibility.
include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Other information in the Annual Report The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted m aterially inconsistent with the information in the audited Parent Accounting Practice.
Company financial statements: or In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have a pparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of with, our knowledge of the Parent Company acquired in the course significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they have of performing our audit: or made assumptions and considered future events.
What an audit of financial statements involves We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial Our responsibilities and those of the directors statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibilities statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by set out on page 211, the directors are responsible for the preparation fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied w hether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent that they give a true and fair view.
Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent adequately disclosed: Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and t he reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the the directors: and Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
t he overall presentation of the financial statements.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We audited Parent Company financial statements and to identify any do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent agreed by our prior consent in writing.
material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.
In our opinion: The company has passed a resolution in accordance with section The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditors Report for the financial year for which the Parent Company name should not be stated.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements and  LLP The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act London 2006.
