Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc Our opinion Overview of our audit approach In our opinion, the Group financial statements defined below: Materiality give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs at We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and for the year then ended: to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for European Union: and the Group financial statements as a whole to be 332 million which represents 5% of profit before taxation.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 10 million as This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted remainder of this report.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Overview of the scope of our audit As explained in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the as issued by the IASB.
reporting units by us, as the Group audit team, or by component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating What we have audited under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component The Group financial statements, which are prepared by auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have GlaxoSmithKline plc, comprise: in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude the Group balance sheet at 31 December 2013: whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive We identified 28 reporting units which, in our view, required an audit income for the year then ended: of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their the Group statement of changes in equity and statement of risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures on certain specified cash flows for the year then ended: and balances and transactions were performed at a further 26 reporting the notes to the Group financial statements, which include a units.
Together with additional procedures performed at the Group summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory level, this gave us the evidence that we needed for our opinion on information.
the Group financial statements as a whole.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Areas of particular audit focus preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number the European Union.
of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and What an audit of financial statements involves considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards focused our work in these areas by assessing the Directors on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately substantive procedures or a combination of both.
disclosed: We considered the following areas to be those that required the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all by the Directors: and risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these the overall presentation of the financial statements.
areas of focus with the Audit & Risk Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information relation to the financial statements is set out on page 91. in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
GSK Annual Report 2013 129 Financial statements Independent Auditors report Independent Auditors report continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in We tested the calculation of the accruals, validating assumptions by reference to third party the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business data and assessing the judgements taken for reasonableness against historical trends.
We focused on this area because rebates, discounts, We also evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of controls in the rebates, allowances and returns arrangements for the US discounts, allowances and returns process.
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business are complex and because establishing an appropriate accrual requires significant judgement and estimates by the Directors.
The Directors have determined an accrual of 1.2 billion to be necessary at 31 December 2013.
Core Business Services We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of key controls both before As part of the simplification of its operating model, and after the migration to the centralised processing environment.
We tested the accuracy the Group has continued the roll-out of an enterpriseand completeness of data migration into the new ERP and the controls over this process.
wide resource planning system ERP.
In addition, We managed and directed centrally the audit work performed by component auditors at the financial transaction processing has been centralised BPOs and BSCs and performed oversight visits to the significant entities that were impacted at business process outsourcing locations BPOs by these changes in 2013. and other accounting services have been centralised at business service centres BSCs.
Consequently, 2013 has been a year of significant change for the finance function.
As such, we identified a heightened risk that control design and operation might be impacted during this period of transition.
Potential implications of alleged illegal acts We considered the ongoing work of the independent investigators appointed by the Following the allegations by the Chinese authorities Company and assessed whether their scope is sufficient and whether the results of the of illegal acts by the Groups Chinese business, investigation to date support the Directors conclusions.
we identified the following risks: We performed oversight visits to China to review the approach and testing results of That the alleged illegal acts might give rise to the component auditor.
fines or other legal penalties in the event that We assessed the Directors determination that it is not possible to reliably estimate the allegations are proven which have not been the financial effect, if any, of these allegations or its timing.
appropriately recorded or measured in the financial statements: We assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions and trading forecasts that the Directors used to support the carrying value of assets in the Chinese business.
That the carrying value of assets in the Groups Chinese business is not supportable in light of We performed additional audit tests at certain locations outside of China, which were the subsequent decline in trading and the designed to evaluate whether the practices alleged in China occurred at other locations potential impact on future business: and across the Group.
That illegal acts similar to those alleged to have occurred in China have occurred elsewhere in the Group.
Refer to Note 44 to the Group financial statements.
Fraud in revenue recognition We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls over the validity and There is a presumed risk of fraud in revenue timing of revenue recognised in the financial statements as well as the completeness of recognition in ISAs UK & Ireland because of the accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances and returns.
We also tested journal entries pressure that management may feel to achieve the posted to revenue accounts and on consolidation to identify unusual or irregular items.
We assessed the accounting for material new agreements, trading arrangements with We focused on the validity of revenue recognised customers and wholesalers and one-off transactions.
close to the year-end as well as the accruals for We performed year-end sales cut-off testing to check that revenue was recorded in the rebates, discounts, allowances and returns where correct period.
calculations can be complex and involve estimation.
Risk of management override of internal We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for controls staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions and we interviewed senior management and ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and risk.
judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested journal entries including consolidation entries.
This was in addition to the audit work described above in relation to alleged illegal acts and fraud in revenue recognition.
130 GSK Annual Report 2013 Going concern Other information in the Annual Report Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the Directors Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, statement set out on page 128 in relation to going concern.
We in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: have nothing to report having performed our review.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded Group financial statements: or that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain the course of performing our audit: or in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least is otherwise misleading.
one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit, we have concluded that the Directors use of the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
going concern basis is appropriate.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups Our responsibilities and those of the Directors ability to continue as a going concern.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 128, the Directors are responsible for Opinion on matters prescribed by the the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being Companies Act 2006 satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group Directors report for the financial year for which the Group financial financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the statements.
Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Other matters on which we are required to for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter report by exception 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume Adequacy of information and explanations received responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions Other matters to report arising from this responsibility.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial Directors remuneration statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to The company has passed a resolution in accordance with section report arising from this responsibility.
506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditors name should not be stated.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors On page 128 of the Annual Report and as required by the Code London Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual 26 February 2014 Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 91 and as required by C3.8 of the Code, the Audit & Risk Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs Notes: UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: a T he maintenance and integrity of the GlaxoSmithKline plc the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these performing our audit: or matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the for any changes that may have occurred to the financial Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters statements since they were initially presented on the website.
communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdiction.
