Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore Xstrata plc In our opinion the financial statements comply with IFRSs Opinion on financial statements of as issued by the IASB.
GlencoreXstrata plc In our opinion the financial statements: Going concern give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups We have reviewed the Directors statement contained affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups loss on page 112 that the Group is a going concern.
forthe year then ended: We confirm that have been properly prepared in accordance with we have not identified material uncertainties related to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on asadopted by the European Union: and the Groups ability to continue as a going concern which we believe would need to be disclosed in accordance have been properly prepared in accordance with the with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Companies Jersey Law 1991. we have concluded that the Directors use of the going The financial statements comprise the Consolidated concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the statement of loss income, the Consolidated statement of financial statements is appropriate.
comprehensive loss income, the Consolidated statement of financial position, the Consolidated statement of cash However, because not all future events or conditions can flows, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting framework Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by theEuropean Union.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued The assessed risks of material misstatement described by the IASB below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, in strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European directing the efforts of the engagement team: Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Acquisition accounting Accounting for the acquisition of Xstrata plc is a complex We reviewed managements process for determining the and judgemental exercise, requiring determination of the acquisition accounting by: fair value of acquired assets and liabilities, the allocation challenged the Groups determination of the fair value of the acquisition goodwill to cash generating units and of the acquired assets and liabilities of Xstrata plc as the resulting $7.5 billion day 1 impairment charge outlined in note 25 to the financial statements.
Deloitte mining valuation specialists to assist in our The determination of fair value materially impacts the challenge of the commodity price, foreign exchange and financial statements.
At acquisition, the fair values directly discount rate assumptions as well as the detailed models impact the amount of goodwill recognised on acquisition.
underlying the valuations, including cross-checking Post acquisition, it also impacts the amounts recognised valuation results against comparable companies and in the statement of income, primarily depreciation and associated multiples, whilst considering the risk of amortisation charges, which are dependent on the initial management bias: fair value.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 117 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the members of GlencoreXstrata plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Acquisition accounting continued assessing the basis for allocation of the acquisition goodwill and the quantum of goodwill allocated to each cash generating unit particularly the amount allocated to the Groups metals and coal marketing operations as outlined in note 8 to the financial statements.
In addition, we challenged the reasonableness of the estimated annual synergies upon which the allocation is based.
This included assessing the volumes underpinning the estimates and evaluating the overall strategies in the context of the Groups historical marketing operations: and challenging managements conclusion that the goodwill allocated to the acquired mining operations was impaired considering the circumstances which led to the impairment, particularly the significant time lag between the offer date and ultimate closing of the acquisition and the macro-economic developments during the intervening period.
Impairment Assessment of the recoverability of the carrying value of We challenged the significant assumptions used in non-current assets including intangible assets, property, impairment testing for intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investments in associates and joint plant and equipment and associates and joint ventures, ventures is dependent on macro-economic assumptions specifically the commodity price, foreign exchange, about future commodity prices, discount and exchange production assumed and discount rate assumptions, rates as well as internal assumptions related to future including consideration of the risk of management production levels and operating costs.
Where significant indicators of impairment were particularly significant due to commodity price volatility, identified, we utilised Deloitte valuation specialists to production assumed and the uncertain economic outlook.
assess the appropriateness of managements recoverable The outcome of impairment assessments could vary value models.
significantly were different assumptions applied.
Revenue recognition Revenue recognition has been identified as a risk, We carried out testing relating to internal controls over particularly in respect of the completeness and accuracy of revenue recognition and completeness and accuracy of capture of trades within the trade book and the timing of trade capture.
On a sample basis, we agreed deliveries revenue recognition for commodity sales with deliveries occurring near 31 December 2013 to supporting occurring on or around year end.
Due to the significant documentation to ensure IFRS revenue recognition criteria volume of transactions, minor errors could, in aggregate, were met for recognised sales and obtained third party have a material impact on the financial statements.
confirmations where relevant to check completeness and accuracy of trade books.
Fair value measurements within the marketing operations Determination of fair values of marketing inventories, We carried out internal control testing and performed financial assets and liabilities is a complex and subjective detailed substantive testing on a sample basis of the related area often requiring significant estimates, particularly fair value measurements specifically testing the evidence where valuations utilise unobservable inputs.
As the supporting unobservable inputs utilised in Level 2 and Groups marketing inventories and other financial assets 3 measurements in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in and liabilities are measured at fair value at each reporting note 28 to the financial statements.
date, these fair value measurements significantly impact the Groups results.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 118 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Classification of financial instruments Further to the above, classification of contracts relating We obtained an understanding of the trading strategies to the Groups marketing operations is a judgemental and associated product flows within the Groups marketing area, particularly sales contracts where the Group departments.
We analysed the trade books to identify physically delivers its own production to a third party incidents where contracts were not physically delivered own use, rather than those which form part of the net settled, which may indicate tainting of the own Groups marketing operations.
Differences in classification use criteria.
Where a contract had been net settled, we affect recognition of associated gains and losses as checked that the contract was appropriately ring-fenced contracts which are own use are exempt from mark to from the own use trade book and marked to market market accounting.
reflecting the underlying facts and circumstances.
Performance and credit risk The Group is exposed to performance and credit risks We undertook internal control testing of the Groups arising from the Groups global marketing operations and centralised and local performance and credit risk trade advances, particularly in markets demonstrating monitoring procedures and challenged managements significant price volatility with limited liquidity and assessment of the recoverability of aged and overdue terminal markets.
This risk is heightened in times receivables, loans and advance payments with delayed of increased price volatility, where suppliers may be or overdue deliveries, considering historical patterns of incentivised to default on delivery and customers are trading and settlement as well as recent communications unable to make payments.
In addition, we made specific inquiries to understand positions in commodities with high price volatility, particularly certain agriculture markets, notably corn and wheat, where there was significant volatility in the second half of the financial year.
Taxation There is significant judgement around accounting for We considered the appropriateness of managements income taxes particularly in light of the number of assumptions and estimates in relation to the likelihood jurisdictions in which the Group operates, which give of generating future taxable profits to support the rise to complexity and uncertainty in the calculation of recognition of deferred tax assets with reference to forecast income taxes and deferred tax assets and consideration taxable profits and consistency of these forecasts with of contingent liabilities associated with tax years open Groups budgets.
We reviewed and challenged managements assessment of uncertain tax positions, reviewing correspondence with local tax authorities and utilising Deloitte tax specialists, where appropriate, to assess the adequacy of associated provisions and disclosures.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 88.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 119 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the members of GlencoreXstrata plc The Group audit team follows a programme of regular Our application of materiality visits to components that has been designed so that the We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement Group Audit Partner or another senior member of the in the financial statements that makes it probable that the group audit team meets with local management and economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person the component audit team of 24 of the most significant would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both components being those components we consider to in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating be the most complex, with the highest risk of material the results of our work.
misstatement, which are located in 12 countries, at least once every two years, with the remaining components We determined planning materiality for the Group to be subject to full scope audits being visited at least once $250 million, which is approximately 6% of normalised every 3 years.
For all components, whether a visit to the pre-tax profit, and below 1% of equity.
Pre-tax profit component takes place during the year or not, we include has been normalised by adjusting for items which, the component audit team in our team briefings and due to their nature and or expected infrequency of communications, discuss and direct their risk assessment, the underlying events, are not considered indicative of review and challenge the findings from their work and continuing operations of the Group and so do not form hold meetings throughout the audit to discuss significant part of the Groups internally or externally monitored matters arising.
These items are outlined in note 4 to the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report byexception We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records report to the Committee all audit differences in Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to excess of $10 million, as well as differences below that report to you if, in our opinion: threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or An overview of the scope of our audit proper accounting records have not been kept by the Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an parent company, or proper returns adequate for our understanding of the Group and its environment, audit have not been received from branches not visited including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of by us: or material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily the financial statements are not in agreement with the on the audit work at 69 Group components utilising accounting records and returns.
29component audit teams in 22 countries: We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
54 of these components were subject to a full audit: 15 were subject to an audit of specified account balances Corporate Governance Statement where the extent of our testing was based on our Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the assessment of the risks of material misstatement and part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to of the materiality of the Groups business operations at the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK those locations.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
These 69 components represent the principal business units within the Groups 3 reportable segments and Our duty to read other information in the annual report account for 84% of the Groups net assets, 93% of the Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to Groups revenue and 85% of the Groups adjusted EBITDA report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual as defined in note 2 to the financial statements.
Our audit report is: work at the 69 components was executed at levels of materially inconsistent with the information in the materiality applicable to each individual entity which were audited financial statements: or lower than Group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially analytical procedures and other procedures to confirm our inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired conclusion that there were no significant risks of material in the course of performing our audit: or misstatement of the aggregated financial information of otherwise misleading.
the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 120 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information In particular, we are required to consider whether Scope of the audit of the financial statements we have identified any inconsistencies between our An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to statement that they consider the annual report is fair, give reasonable assurance that the financial statements balanced and understandable and whether the annual are free from material misstatement, whether caused by report appropriately discloses those matters that we fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether communicated to the Audit Committee which we the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that circumstances and have been consistently applied and we have not identified any such inconsistencies or adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant misleading statements.
accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, Other matter we read all the financial and non-financial information In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies Report to be audited has been properly prepared in with the audited financial statements and to identify accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act any information that is apparently materially incorrect 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company.
based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we Respective responsibilities of Directors become aware of any apparent material misstatements or andauditor inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements Matt Sheerin, CA in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply London, UK with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to 17 March 2014 ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 121 Consolidated statement of loss income For the year ended 31 December 2013 2012 1 US$ million Notes 2013 Restated Revenue 232,694 214,436 Cost of goods sold 227,145 210,435 Selling and administrative expenses 1,206 997 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 10 846 367 Loss on sale of investments net 3 40 128 Other expense net 4 10,844 1,214 Dividend income 39 17 Interest income 393 401 Interest expense 1,781 1,371 Loss Income before income taxes 7,044 1,076 Income tax expense credit 6 254 76 Loss Income for the year 7,298 1,152 Attributable to from : Non-controlling interests 104 148 Equity holders 7,402 1,004 Loss Earnings per share: Basic US$ 17 0.67 0.14 Diluted US$ 17 0.67 0.14 1 Certain amounts shown here reflect the adoption of new and revised standards as detailed in note 1 and therefore do not correspond to the consolidated statement of income for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements.
