MRERGMEP WXEXIQIRXW Independent auditors report to the members of the Go-Ahead Group plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the of The Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 29 June 2013 Companies Act 2006 which comprise the Parent Company balance sheet and the In our opinion: related notes 1 to 15.
The financial reporting framework that the part of the Directors remuneration report to be has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and audited has been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom the Companies Act 2006: and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors report for the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, year for which the financial statements are prepared is as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Matters on which we are required to report that we might state to the Companys members those matters by exception we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than if, in our opinion: the Company, and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor not been received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 80, the Directors are responsible the Parent Company financial statements and the part of for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified Company financial statements in accordance with applicable by law are not made: or law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
we have not received all the information and explanations Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing we require for our audit.
Practices Boards Ethical Standards for auditors.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the Group financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts of The Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 29 June 2013. and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Kathryn Barrow Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor, London statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non- 4 September 2013 financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material Notes: misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 1.
The maintenance and integrity of The Go-Ahead Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not for our report.
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial Opinion on financial statements statements since they were initially presented on the website.
In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 29 June 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
