105 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halfords Group plc We have audited the financial statements of Halfords Group plc for the Opinion on financial statements year ended 29 March 2013 [set out on pages [104] to [143]].
The In our opinion: financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 29 March 2013 financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and UK the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our Practice: and audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement [set been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act out on page [104]], the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 2006: and financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards the financial statements.
on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 72 to 81 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
Greg Watts Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants One Snowhill Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham B4 6GH 23 May 2013 22357-04 11 06 2013 BACK Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Financials www.
