O O O O O Ov v v v five e e e er r r r rv v v v viiiiie e e e ew w w w w S S S S S St t t t tr r r r ra a a a at t t t te e e e eg g g g g giiiiic c c c c r r r r r re e e e ep p p p p po o o o or r r r rt t t t t Governance F F F F F Fiiiiiin n n n na a a a an n n n nc c c c ciiiiia a a a alllll s s s s s st t t t ta a a a at t t t te e e e em m m m me e e e en n n n nts ts ts ts ts O O O O O Ot t t t th h h h he e e e er r r r r iiiiin n n n n nf f f f for or or or orma ma ma ma mat t t t tio io io io ion n n n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Auditors  LLP, Chartered Accountants, the Companys external auditors, have expressed their willingness to be reappointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
Annual general meeting The notice convening the AGM to be held on 30 April 2014 at 11.30 a. m. is contained in a circular sent out to shareholders with this report.
The meeting will be held at Hotel Sofitel, Gatwick Airport, Crawley, West Sussex RH6 0PH.
The notice of AGM contains full details of the resolutions that will be put to shareholders.
Special business At the AGM, a special resolution will be proposed that, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, a general meeting other than an AGM may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Hayley Whitehead Company Secretary 28 February 2014 Registered office HellermannTyton Group PLC Stoner House London Road Crawley West Sussex RH10 8LJ Please note that, from 1 May 2014, the registered office will change to: Griffin House 135 High Street Crawley West Sussex RH10 1DQ Registered number 08409650 48 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Other statutory disclosures continued Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect page 22 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: of the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, give a true and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of report on Directors remuneration and the financial statements in the Group: and accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law the Directors report includes a fair review of true development requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each and performance of the business and the position of the Group, financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the together with a description of the principal risks and Group financial statements in accordance with International uncertainties that it faces.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Going concern, responsibilities and disclosure generally accepted accounting practice UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law, the Directors must not The Directors have formed a judgement that there is a reasonable approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and operational existence for the foreseeable future, based upon: the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
significant cash and cash equivalents at the year end: In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: a history of cash generation and covenant compliance: and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them good visibility in near-term forecasts and budget, taking account consistently: of capital expenditure plans and reasonable possible changes in trading performance, indicating that we expect to be able to make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable operate within the level of our refinanced banking facilities.
and prudent: For these reasons, the Directors continue to adopt the going state whether IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable UK concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Disclosure of information to auditors Parent Company financial statements respectively: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will this Directors report confirms that, so far as they are aware, there continue in business.
is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and that they have taken all steps that they ought to The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time aware of that information.
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the report on By order of the Board.
Directors remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the Steve Salmon Tim Jones assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
O O O O O Ov v v v five e e e er r r r rv v v v viiiiie e e e ew w w w w S S S S S St t t t tr r r r ra a a a at t t t te e e e eg g g g g giiiiic c c c c r r r r r re e e e ep p p p p po o o o or r r r rt t t t t G G G G G Gov ov ov ov ove e e e er r r r rn n n n na a a a an n n n nc c c c ce e e e e Financial statements O O O O O Ot t t t th h h h he e e e er r r r r iiiiin n n n n nf f f f for or or or orma ma ma ma mat t t t tio io io io ion n n n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 Independent auditors report to the members of HellermannTyton Group PLC In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Report on the Group financial statements in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is Our opinion apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing In our opinion the Group financial statements defined below: the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for our report.
the year then ended: Overview of our audit approach have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Materiality have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
on the financial statements as a whole.
What we have audited Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 3.3 million The Group financial statements the financial statements, which which represents approximately 5% of underlying profit before are prepared by HellermannTyton Group PLC comprise: tax.
the Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 150,000 the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, income for the year then ended: warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
the Group statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and Overview of the scope of our audit the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary The Group is structured on a geographical basis with three of significant accounting policies and other explanatory segments being EMEA, Americas and Asian, and has a number information.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, comprising the Groups The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their manufacturing and sales units spread across the segments, preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the together with, holding and financing entities and centralised European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and determined the type of work that was needed to be performed at Accounts Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial component auditors within both PwC UK and from other PwC statements and are identified as audited.
network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we also determined the What an audit of financial statements involves level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units audited by other audit teams to be able to We conducted our audit in accordance with International conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and statements as a whole.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Accordingly, of the Groups 37 reporting units, we identified nine misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an representing 74% of Group revenue based in the UK, USA, assessment of: Germany, Japan, Singapore, China, and Brazil which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups due to their size or their risk characteristics.
Specific audit circumstances and have been consistently applied and procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed adequately disclosed: at a further three holding and financing units in the UK 92% of the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Group underlying profit before tax, covered by these 12 reporting the directors: and units.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the overall presentation of the financial statements.
the Group financial statements as a whole.
