Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 independent auditors report to the members of hikma pharmaceuticals plc opinion on financial statements of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc separate opinion in relation to ifrss as issued by the iasB in our opinion: as explained in note 2 to the group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply ifrss as adopted by the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the european union, the group has also applied ifrss as issued by the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 international accounting standards Board iasB.
and of the groups profit for the year then ended: in our opinion the group financial statements comply with ifrss the group financial statements have been properly prepared in as issued by the iasB.
accordance with international financial reporting standards ifrss asadopted by the european union: going concern as required by the listing rules we have reviewed the Directors the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with ifrss as adopted by the european union and as applied statement contained on page 116 that the group is a going concern.
in accordance with the provisions of the companies act 2006: and We confirm that: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of requirements of the companies act 2006 and, as regards the group accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: financial statements, article 4 of the ias regulation.
and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant the financial statements comprise the group income statement, doubt on the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
theconsolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company balance sheets, the consolidated and However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, company cash flow statements, the consolidated and company this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue statements of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 58. as a going concern.
the financial reporting framework that has been applied in their our assessment of risks of material misstatement preparation is applicable law and ifrss as adopted by the european the assessed risks of material misstatement described below union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the companies act 2006. are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, theallocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts oftheengagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition the groups revenue recognition policies require Directors to We assessed the revenue recognition policies applied in the group, make a number of estimates, with the most significant relating including the valuation and timing of revenue recognition with reference to chargebacks, product returns, rebates and price adjustments to the relevant revenue recognition criteria in ifrss.
We challenged the see note 2 which vary by product arrangements and buying key judgements, such as the expected value of chargebacks, product groups.
in addition, for certain products there may be uncertainty returns and price adjustments, by performing analytical and substantive over the ultimate net selling price and whether the revenue can procedures on the methodology used in determining the year end be reliably measured so as to meet the appropriate revenue provisions, including the examination of supporting documentation.
in addition, we considered chargeback payments processed subsequent to year end to validate the level of provision.
Impairment of assets the group holds goodwill, intangible assets, fixed assets relating We challenged the indicators of impairment assessed by management, to its manufacturing operations, and investments in associates, which included the remediation at eatontown and the performance of which are subject to impairment considerations.
Where indicators existed or an annual impairment review was value of these items and the judgemental nature of assumptions required for assets with an indefinite useful life or goodwill, we performed included within the impairment models, in particular the growth focused audit procedures.
these procedures included working with rates inherent in the forecasts and the discount rate assumption, internal valuation specialists to challenge the key assumptions related makethis an area of audit focus.
to the discount rate applied to the separate cash-generating units by benchmarking to peer companies.
in addition, we critically assessed the estimated future cash flows by considering the historical accuracy of budgeting and through our understanding of the future prospects of thebusiness or investment.
Where significant judgements were made, wealso carried out a sensitivity analysis to assess their impact.
122 financial statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Taxation the groups worldwide operations are highly integrated and We challenged the judgements made by the Directors and evaluated the involve a number of cross border transactions.
as a result, there appropriateness of the provisions and disclosures.
Working with taxation is complexity and judgement surrounding the tax liabilities due specialists we obtained the latest correspondence between the group tothe authorities in the various tax jurisdictions, including transfer and the relevant tax authorities, understood the judgements made by the pricing considerations.
Directors, held meetings with senior management and we consulted with the groups external tax advisers and considered their views on any matters.
Inventory provisions the group holds significant levels of inventory that require the We attended stock counts to verify the physical existence of inventory Directors to make judgements surrounding the value of provisions and identify whether any inventory was obsolete.
We challenged the against obsolescence and short-dated items.
assumptions over inventory provisions by assessing the shelf-life, historic ageing and expected volume and price of future sales of the stock and also those made since the balance sheet date.
the audit committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 72. at the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
the group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of our application of materiality the group audit team visits each of the locations where the group We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the audit scope was focused at least once every two years and the most financial statements that makes it probable that the economic significant of them, including Jordan and the us, at least once a year.
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed in years when we do not visit a significant component we will include orinfluenced.
We use materiality, both in planning the scope of our the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their We determined materiality for the group to be $15 million, work.
the senior statutory auditor visited the us and Jordan during whichis 5% of pre-tax profit, and 1.5% of equity.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of $300,000, as well as opinion on other matters prescribed by the companies act 2006 differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting in our opinion: on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the audit committee on the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall properly prepared in accordance with the companies act 2006: and presentation of the financial statements.
the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report an overview of the scope of our audit for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared isconsistent with the financial statements.
our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
matters on which we are required to report by exception Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records on the audit work at 13 locations.
of these, 12 were subject to a full under the companies act 2006 we are required to report to you if, audit, whilst the other was subject to an audit of specified account inour opinion: balances where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the we have not received all the information and explanations we require groups operations at those locations.
these 13 locations include forour audit: or Jordan and the us, represent the principal business units and account adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, for 84% of the groups net assets, 96% of the groups revenue and or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 100% of the groups profit before tax.
they were also selected to not visited by us: or provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with risks of material misstatement identified above.
our audit work at the theaccounting records and returns.
13 locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
123 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 inDePenDent auDitors rePort Continued Directors remuneration respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor under the companies act 2006 we are also required to report if, in our as explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial nothing to report arising from these matters.
statements in accordance with applicable law and international standards on auditing uk and ireland.
those standards require corporate governance statement us to comply with the auditing Practices Boards ethical standards under the listing rules we are also required to review the part of for auditors.
the corporate governance statement relating to the companys this report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, compliance with nine provisions of the uk corporate governance in accordance with chapter 3 of Part 16 of the companies act 2006. code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them our duty to read other information in theannual report in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
to the fullest extent under international standards on auditing uk and ireland, we are permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual other than the company and the companys members as a body, for report is: our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or scope of the audit of the financial statements an audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
this includes an otherwise misleading.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been in particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is presentation of the financial statements.
in addition, we read all the fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the ormisleading statements.
course of performing the audit.
if we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
paul franek senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 11 march 2014 124
