Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Howden Joinery Group Plc Opinion on In our opinion: financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent statements of companys affairs as at 28 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the 52 weeks then ended: Howden Joinery Group Plc the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 29.
This also comprises the parent company Balance Sheet and related notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 76 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern which we believe would need to be disclosed in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
129 Independent auditors report to the members of Howden Joinery Group Plc continued Our assessment The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest of risks of material effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts misstatement of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The recoverability We have challenged Managements assumptions in calculating the of trade debtors and bad debt provision, including reviewing the ageing of receivables appropriateness in comparison to previous years, reviewing the level of bad debt of the bad debt write offs in the current year and against the prior year, checking provision the recoverability of outstanding debtors through examination of subsequent cash receipts, testing the integrity of ageing and testing the operating effectiveness of the relevant credit control procedures Management has in place.
The valuation of the We tested the existence of stocks through observation of annual and inventory including perpetual stock counts including completion of our own sample of the appropriateness counts.
We have tested that the book value of stocks does not exceed of the judgements their net realisable value by comparing the actual sales value to the applied within book value for a sample of lines.
We have challenged the assumptions the obsolescence used in arriving at managements inventory provision.
Specifically we provision have checked the discontinued dates of those relevant stock lines to ensure they have been aged correctly.
We have also reviewed the actual and forecast sales of those provisioned stock lines to check that the provision percentage applied is still appropriate.
The review of We have assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions underlying actuarial valuations the valuation of the pension deficit by reviewing the actuarial report used in respect of and challenging each of the assumptions by comparison to available the defined benefit market data.
We have confirmed the year end pension asset values scheme prepared for to third party confirmations and checked the integrity of those compliance with the confirmations by agreeing a sample back to independent data.
relevant accounting and disclosure requirements and the assessment of the appropriateness of the assumptions used The provision for We have challenged Managements assumptions in arriving at the vacant properties provision for vacant properties.
We have checked and verified the inputs used to calculate the provision and reviewed the discussions held with the Groups independent property advisers to ensure these experts views have been reflected within the provision calculations.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 68.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it of materiality probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 6 million, which is approximately 5% of profit before tax.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 120,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing 130 the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 An overview of the Our Group audit scope focused on the UK and French trading entities and each of the Head Office scope of our audit companies.
All of these entities were subject to a full scope audit and this gave us coverage of 100% of the Groups revenues and 100% of the Groups profit before tax for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2013.
Audits of all locations are performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned.
Opinion on other In our opinion: matters prescribed the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in by the Companies accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Act 2006 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: explanations we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or received and accounting records adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures remuneration of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Statement Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, other information in in our opinion, information in the annual report is: the Annual Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
131 Independent auditors report to the members of Howden Joinery Group Plc continued Respective As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible responsibilities for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and of directors fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in and auditor accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements of the financial sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material statements misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Edward Hanson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 26 February 2014 132
