Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information F Financial Statements inancial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Hunting PLC Report on the financial statements identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Our opinion statements and to identify any information that is apparently In our opinion: materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
of the Groups and Parent Companys cash flows for the year thenended: Overview of our audit approach the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Materiality in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures the Parent Company financial statements have been properly and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European on the financial statements as a whole.
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with for the Group financial statements as a whole to be USD 7.5 the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards million.
In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to Group the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
continuing profit before tax, adjusted for the impairment of oil and gas assets shown as exceptional items because, in our view, this is This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the an appropriate measure of performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to What we have audited them misstatements identified during our audit above USD 0.3 The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our statements the financial statements, which are prepared by view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Hunting PLC, comprise: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets as at 31 Overview of the scope of our audit December 2013: The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting the Consolidated Income Statement and Statement of units covering non-trading legal entities, centralised functions and Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: 31 operating businesses.
the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity and Statements of Cash Flows for the year then ended: In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we and considered the type of work that needed to be performed at the the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, or component of significant accounting policies and other explanatory auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms information.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the extent of audit work The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their needed at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis European Union and, as regards the Parent Company, as applied in for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Accordingly, we concluded that 18 operating businesses required What an audit of financial statements involves an audit of the financial information submitted by local We conducted our audit in accordance with International management to be included in the consolidation, due to their size Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An and or risk characteristics.
The procedures described above audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and brought operating businesses into the scope of our audit which, disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable together with our audit work on centralised functions covered over assurance that the financial statements are free from material 85% of Group revenue and Group continuing profit before tax.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an This, together with other procedures performed at the Group level assessment of: over the consolidation and non-trading entities, gave us the whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial and Parent Companys circumstances and have been statements as a whole.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Areas of particular audit focus the directors: and In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number the overall presentation of the financial statements.
of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report to primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 81 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Hunting PLC continued directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own We considered the following areas to be those that required judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all statements.
risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered the financial statements is set out on page 79. necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Provision for Gibson Energy Inc tax indemnities We read the latest correspondence, including the detail of settlement The Group has previously recognised provisions for tax warranty exposures agreements during the financial year, between the Group, the business as a result of the Gibson Energy Inc disposal in 2008.
We considered this to disposed of and the overseas tax authorities to assess the judgement adopted an area of focus because of the inherently judgemental nature of the in the determination of the year-end provision balance and movements estimates involved.
We also discussed the potential tax exposure and related warranty with senior Group management, and the basis for their estimate with the Groups in-house and external tax specialists.
Taxation We read the latest correspondence between the Group and the overseas tax The Group is subject to a number of underlying tax exposures and carries authorities.
We discussed the potential tax exposure with senior Group provisions accordingly.
We considered this an area of focus because of the management, and the basis for their positions with the Groups in-house tax judgement required by the directors to assess matters arising from overseas specialists.
We utilised our experience of similar challenges elsewhere to tax compliance assessments and disputes.
independently assess the evidence described above.
Change in presentational currency We assessed the methodology applied for the change in accounting policy During the year the Group changed its presentational currency from sterling and the adequacy of disclosure in the financial statements on the restatement to US dollar.
As such the financial statements have been re-presented, of prior period financial information.
We considered this change an area of focus due to the manual nature of the re-presentation calculation and We tested the accuracy of the detailed calculation to re-present historical complexity of the re-presentation across a number of historical financial financial information from Sterling to US dollar, by checking the exchange periods.
rates used for items re-presented in the respective period or date, based on the nature of those items, and re-performing the calculation for individual items on a sample basis.
Goodwill impairment We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts, and the process by The current economic climate heightens the risk of impairment triggers.
which they were drawn up, including comparing them to the latest Board Impairment is an inherently judgemental area as it involves significant approved budgets, and testing the underlying calculations.
We challenged: judgements by the directors about the future results of the individual business the directors key assumptions for nominal long-term growth rates and operations, being the Groups cash-generating units CGUs, and therefore terminal growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to historical there is an increased risk of material misstatement.
results, economic and industry forecasts: and the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital assumption for each CGUs and comparable organisations.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers, including revenue growth and profit margin, of the cash flow forecasts for each CGU.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested journal entries.
Fraud in revenue recognition We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested certain internal controls over ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition the completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue recognised in the financial because of the pressure management may feel to achieve expected results.
We also tested a sample of sales recorded in the period by checking relevant third party documentation and cash receipts as well as testing journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify unusual or irregular items.
82 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Financial Statements Going Concern On page 49 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual statement, set out on pages 48 and 49, in relation to going Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 79, as As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Parent Companys significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit performing our audit: or we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the basis is appropriate.
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other information in the Annual Report Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in In our opinion: our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of materially inconsistent with the information in the audited the Directors for the financial year for which the financial financial statements: or statements are prepared is consistent with the financial apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially statements: and inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent the part of the Annual Report on Remuneration to be audited Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit explanations received Our responsibilities and those of the directors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors in our opinion: Responsibilities set out on page 49, the directors are responsible for we have not received all the information and explanations we the preparation of the Group and Parent Company financial require for our audit: or statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent view.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with Annual Report on Remuneration to be audited are not in applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us agreement with the accounting records and returns.
to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Directors remuneration for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume specified by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to report arising from these responsibilities.
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Charles van den Arend Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys Senior Statutory Auditor compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance for and on behalf of  LLP Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors our review.
London 6 March 2014 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 83
