145 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC GROUP We have audited the Group financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the efforts of the engagement team: Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and the related sections 1 to 5.
Revenue and profit recognition, particularly in Severe Service The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Inventory valuation, particularly in Severe Service as adopted by the European Union.
Valuation of the overall pension scheme liabilities and the pension asset associated with the Scottish Limited Partnership SLP This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Accounting treatment of the disposal of the Beverage Dispense and accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit Merchandising businesses including the associated tax effect of work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members the transaction those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Our application of materiality have formed.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 16 million 2012: 16 million, which is below 5% 2012: 5% of profit before tax.
In calculating materiality, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor we excluded the effects of certain non-recurring items from profit before tax.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out For 2013, these related to contingent consideration and preparatory costs on page 144, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group associated with the disposal of the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our materiality provided a basis for determining the nature, timing Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the audit procedures.
Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance Scope of the audit of the financial statements materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the balance for the Group should be 50% 2012: 50% of materiality, namely financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 8 million 2012: 8 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or ensure that undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are planning materiality level.
appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial all audit differences in excess of 0.8 million 2012: 0.8 million, as well as statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting on in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the qualitative grounds.
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
146 IMI plc INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC GROUP Continued An overview of the scope of our audit Matters on which we are required to report by exception Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group We have nothing to report in respect of the following: financial statements, we selected 69 entities from the Groups five reportable Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our segments which account for 79% 81% of the Groups revenue and 93% 86% opinion, information in the Annual Report is: of the Groups profit before tax.
Of these entities, 18 were subject to a full audit, materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: 35 were subject to audits of specific account balances and 16 were subject to or review procedures.
None of the entities in the Group is individually significant in size.
Therefore, the full and specific scope entities are selected based on apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our risk.
For the remaining entities, we performed other procedures to confirm knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the Group financial is otherwise misleading.
The entities were selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any above and the different local systems operating across the Group.
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, The Group audit team focuses its involvement in higher risks areas through balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately regular conference calls with entity teams and review of key working papers.
discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which In addition, the Group team follows a programme of site visits to higher we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Our response to the risks identified above was as follows: in our opinion: Revenue and profit recognition, particularly in Severe Service certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: We performed testing around the timing of revenue recognition, examining or new contracts to ensure the recording of revenue reflects the underlying we have not received all the information and explanations we require for terms and conditions.
In addition, we audited managements assessment of our audit.
forecast costs to complete and the underlying assumptions to ensure contract losses are appropriately recognised.
We also performed substantive analytical Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: procedures and assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted the directors statement, set out on page 54, in relation to going concern: and complied with IFRS.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys Inventory valuation, particularly in Severe Service compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code We tested the accumulation of cost within inventory, ensuring the valuation specified for our review.
reflected the physical inventory counts and the products stage of completion.
We also tested the appropriateness of overhead absorption in the inventory Other matter valuation and audited provisions against inventory to ensure they appropriately We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of reflected potential excess and or obsolete issues.
IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Valuation of the overall pension scheme liabilities and the pension asset Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
associated with the Scottish Limited Partnership SLP With the assistance of Ernst & Young LLP pension specialists, we considered the appropriateness of the actuarial assumptions based on reports provided Andrew Walton Senior statutory auditor by Towers Watson.
In addition to testing the valuation of other pension assets, for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor we confirmed the consistency of the valuation principles used for the SLP pension assets and challenged the assumptions supporting their valuation Birmingham in conjunction with Ernst & Young LLP valuation specialists.
5 March 2014 Accounting treatment for disposal of the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising businesses In respect of the disposals of the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising 1 The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc website is the responsibility businesses, we audited the assumptions underpinning the valuation of of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve assets held for sale and the related disclosures to ensure that they complied consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no with the requirements of IFRS 5.
In addition, we audited the related tax responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial effects of the disposals.
statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and 2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and intangible assets dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in We audited managements assumptions used in the impairment model for other jurisdictions.
goodwill and intangible assets, including specifically the long-term growth rates, discount rates, cash flow projections and sensitivities used.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
