Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the STATEMENTS audited Group financial statements and to identify any information Our Opinion that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially In our opinion the Group financial statements: inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent 30 September 2013 and of the Groups pro t and cash ows material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the for the year then ended: implications for our report.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Overview of Our Audit Approach Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Materiality European Union: and We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
on the financial statements as a whole.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality What We Have Audited for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 114 million.
The Group financial statements, which are prepared by Imperial We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Tobacco Group PLC, comprise: them misstatements identi ed during our audit above 10 million the Group Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 September as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, 2013: warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
the Group Consolidated Income Statement for the year then Overview of the Scope of our Audit ended: The Group is structured along two business lines, being Tobacco and Logistics.
The Group financial statements are a the Group Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income consolidation of 352 legal entities represented by 230 reporting for the year then ended: entities, comprising the Groups operating businesses and the Group Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and centralised functions.
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we and determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the notes to the Group financial statements, which include reporting entities by us, as the Group engagement team, or a summary of signi cant accounting policies and other component auditors from other PwC network rms and other explanatory information.
rms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by reporting entities to be able to conclude whether suf cient the European Union.
appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Our Group audit scope focused on eighteen Imperial Tobacco Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the reporting entities, which included entities with signi cant Group financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial operations based in the UK, Germany, Spain, USA, Morocco, statements and are identi ed as audited.
Australia, and six other locations, as well as the Logistics What an Audit of Financial Statements Involves sub-group, all of which were subject to a full scope audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International These operations accounted for approximately 75 per cent of Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Group turnover and in excess of 90 per cent of Group pro t An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and before tax.
In addition certain central reporting entities and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable Group functions including those covering treasury, taxation and assurance that the financial statements are free from material pensions and the Parent Company were subject to a full scope misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Taken collectively these reporting entities represent the an assessment of: principal business units of the Group.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups The Group audit team follows a programme of planned site visits circumstances and have been consistently applied and that is designed so that senior team members visit the full scope adequately disclosed: audit reporting entities regularly on a rotational basis.
In addition to these visits, video conferences are held with each full scope the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by reporting entitys management and component auditors at least the Directors: and once a year.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
For the year ended 30 September 2013 nine reporting entities were visited, a Group planning meeting was held in the UK for full scope audit component teams and video conferences held with an additional nine reporting entities.
84 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Areas of Particular Audit Focus necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination signi cant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions of both.
and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We considered the following areas to be those that required We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our risks or areas of focus identi ed by our audit.
We discussed these own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those statements.
matters that they considered to be signi cant issues in relation In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling to the financial statements is set out on page 51. and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment assessment We evaluated the Directors future cash ow forecasts, We focused on this area because the determination of whether including comparing them to the latest Board approved or not an impairment charge for goodwill and intangible assets budgets and testing the underlying calculations.
We challenged was necessary involved complex and subjective judgements the Directors key assumptions regarding discount, initial and by the Directors about the future results of the relevant parts long-term growth rates by comparing them to historical results of the business.
and the prospects for the business and industry.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the Goodwill has arisen principally on the acquisitions of cash ow forecasts, being pricing, market size, market shares Reemtsma, Commonwealth Brands and Altadis.
Having ascertained the extent of change Intangible assets principally represent acquired trademarks in those assumptions that either individually or collectively and supply agreements.
would be required for the assets to be impaired, we The Directors booked an impairment charge of 580 million.
considered the likelihood of such a movement in those We needed to obtain evidence for the remaining key assumptions arising.
11,208 million of goodwill and 6,174 million of intangible assets.
Refer to note 11 to the financial statements.
Revenue recognition We tested the timing of revenue recognition, and whether the ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in Group appropriately recorded revenue taking into account revenue recognition.
contractual terms and obligations with distributors and other customers.
We focused on the timing of revenue recognition and its presentation in the consolidated income statement, because We evaluated any changes to contractual terms around the of the risk associated with such fast moving consumer goods year end and tested accounts receivable balances through and the levels of inventory sold into, and held in, distribution a combination of third party con rmations and subsequent channels, as well as the contractual terms those goods were remittances.
Refer to note 1 to the financial statements.
We also tested journal entries posted to revenue to identify unusual or irregular items.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We tested manual journal entries, including material consolidation journals.
We also examined the signi cant accounting estimates for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Going Concern in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
statement, set out on page 60, in relation to going concern.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use We have nothing to report having performed our review.
of the going concern basis is appropriate.
As noted in the Directors statement the Directors have concluded However, because not all future events or conditions can be that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 85 Independent Auditors Report Opinions on Matter Prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the Audit In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and Our Responsibilities and Those of the Directors the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements.
Group financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Other Matters on Which We are Required to Report by Exception Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group Adequacy of Information and Explanations Received financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and report arising from this responsibility.
only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Directors Remuneration Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
by the Board on directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions Other Matter to report arising from these responsibilities.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial Corporate Governance Statement statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 30 September 2013 and on the information in the Directors Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
On page 60 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable John Maitland Senior Statutory Auditor and provides the information necessary for members to assess for and on behalf of  LLP the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 51, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has Bristol set out the signi cant issues that it considered in relation to the 5 November 2013 financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other Information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
86 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013
