STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL  INFORMATION REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF INCHCAPE PLC OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MATERIALITY OUR OPINION We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to In our opinion the Group financial statements, defined below: determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as and to evaluate the effect of misstatements both individually at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows and on the financial statements as a whole.
for the year then ended: Based on our professional judgement, we determined have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 13 million, which is approximately 5% of the Groups profit adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of before tax.
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.65 This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our remainder of this Report.
view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT The Group financial statements, which are prepared by The Group is organised into six geographic operating segments Inchcape plc, comprise: Australasia, Europe, North Asia, South Asia, United Kingdom the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 and Russia and Emerging Markets.
The operating businesses December 2013: are further categorised into two market channels distribution the consolidated income statement and consolidated and retail.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: of 56 reporting units, comprising the Groups operating the consolidated statement of changes in equity and businesses within the six geographic segments and two consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then market channels and centralised functions.
ended: and In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we the summary of significant accounting policies and determined the type of work that needed to be performed at notes to the financial statements, which includes other the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or explanatory information.
component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network The financial reporting framework that has been applied in firms and other firms operating under our instruction.
Where the their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as work was performed by component auditors, we determined adopted by the European Union.
the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for Report and Accounts 2013 the Annual Report, rather our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are crossThe reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified referenced from the financial statements and are identified 24 reporting units that, in our view, required an audit of as audited.
their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
These 24 reporting units contributed 91% WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES We conducted our audit in accordance with International of the Groups profit before tax.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
AREAS OF PARTICULAR AUDIT FOCUS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free of significant accounting estimates that involved making from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
assumptions and considering future events that are inherently This includes an assessment of: uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in and adequately disclosed: the financial statements.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made In our audit, we tested and examined information, using by the Directors: and sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we the overall presentation of the financial statements.
considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing information in the Annual Report to identify material the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements combination of both.
and to identify any information that is apparently materially We considered the following areas to be those that required incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing of all risks or areas of audit focus identified by our audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications Their Report on those matters that they considered to be for our report.
significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 55. www.
com 139 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL  INFORMATION REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF INCHCAPE PLC CONTINUED Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment We evaluated the Directors future cash flow forecasts, including comparing them with the latest Board approved budgets and We focused on this area because it involves complex and tested the integrity of underlying calculations.
We challenged subjective judgements by the Directors, including the future the Directors key assumptions for long term growth rates in the results of the business.
forecasts by comparing them with historical results and external As set out in note 11 of the financial statements, the recoverable data.
We challenged the discount rate by assessing the cost of amount of the goodwill in Russia 178.0 million and Lithuania capital for the Company and comparable organisations.
21.6 million is sensitive to a change in the key assumptions.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts, specifically the long term growth rates and the assumptions relating to revenue growth and operating margins, as well as the discount rates.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such movements in those key assumptions arising.
Fraud in revenue recognition We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls over revenue transactions recognised in the financial ISAs UK & Ireland require us to consider the risk of fraud in statements.
We tested the validity of sales recorded in the period revenue recognition.
We focused our work on the potential by agreeing them to appropriate third party documentation and fraudulent recognition of revenue, in particular items posted cash receipts.
We also tested manual journal entries posted to through manual journals to revenue accounts.
revenue accounts by identifying and investigating unusual or irregular items.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups Internal Audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements, such as impairment reviews and warranty provisions, for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested journal entries and incorporated an element of unpredictability in our audit work.
GOING CONCERN Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 74, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
com 140 140 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OPINION ON OTHER MATTER PRESCRIBED BY THE RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANIES ACT 2006 AND THE AUDIT In our opinion the information given in the Strategic report and OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE DIRECTORS the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group statement set out on page 74, the Directors are responsible financial statements.
for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the REPORT BY EXCEPTION ADEQUACY OF INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED Group financial statements in accordance with applicable Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards and explanations we require for our audit.
exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other specified by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it to report arising from this responsibility.
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT in writing.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance report relating to the Companys OTHER MATTER compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate We have reported separately on the Company financial Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to statements of Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December report having performed our review.
2013 and on the information in the Directors Report on Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
On page 75 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and MARK GILL understandable and provides the information necessary for Senior Statutory Auditor members to assess the Groups performance, business model for and on behalf of  LLP and strategy.
On page 55, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it London considered in relation to the financial statements, and how 10 March 2014 they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
