FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report To the members of Informa plc Opinion on financial In our opinion: statements of Informa plc the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and, as regards the Consolidated Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the Financial Statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
INFORMA PLC 66 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Our assessment of risks The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect of material misstatement on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill We challenged managements assumptions used in the and other intangible fixed assets impairment model for goodwill and other intangible assets as described in notes 16 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial The Group has 1.6 billion of goodwill and a further Statements.
This included specifically testing the cash flow 0.8 billion of other intangible assets on the balance sheet projections, forecast growth rates, discount rates and sensitivities.
Management is required to carry out an annual impairment test, which is judgemental and based on a number of assumptions including in respect of future profitability and discount rates.
Accounting for acquisitions and disposals We reviewed the sale and purchase agreements for significant acquisitions and challenged the acquisition accounting for The Group has made a number of strategic acquisitions each.
This included testing the validity and completeness of and disposals in the period.
The accounting for each of consideration and evaluating managements assumptions and these involves judgement and is based on assumptions methodology supporting the fair values of intangible and net about the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired, assets acquired for each significant acquisition in the year.
We and the consideration paid or received.
also challenged Managements presentation of the results of the Corporate Training businesses within discontinued operations.
We scrutinised the loss on disposal calculation including assessing the fair value of the consideration received and the related costs of sale.
The recoverability of long term receivables We reviewed the underlying agreements for these long term receivables, considered and challenged management assumptions The Group has three significant long-term receivables with over future recoverability, such as the review of future business third parties as a result of the structure of the disposals of performance, and audited repayments in the year.
the Corporate Training businesses, Robbins Gioia and Asia Gateway China.
At 31 December 2013 the carrying value of these receivables was 37.6 million.
The adequacy of provisions for uncertain tax positions We reviewed the movement in the provision challenging the utilisation in the period and the releases made.
We have also The Group has historically had significant provisions for assessed the remaining risks in respect of capital gains tax potential tax exposures.
While these have reduced significantly and transfer pricing.
over the last two years they continue to represent a judgemental area of focus for management.
Revenue recognition, including the validity of Our procedures included understanding and testing the revenue and cut-off controls in respect of the Groups revenue cycle and testing the revenue recognised in the period using a combination of Revenue recognition is a judgemental area, in particular in substantive analytical procedures and tests of detail.
relation to the apportionment of subscription revenue and the timing of revenue earned close to the year end.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on pages 28 to 31.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 67 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report continued To the members of Informa plc Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 9.7 million, which is below 5% of normalised pre-tax profit from continuing operations.
Pre-tax profit from continuing operations has been normalised by removing the impact of restructuring and reorganisation costs, acquisition related costs and impairment charges.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 190,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, of our audit including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at seven locations.
Six of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining one was subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at that location.
These seven locations represent the principal business units within the Groups three reportable segments and account for 95% of the Groups net assets, 73% of the Groups revenue and 76% of the Groups adjusted operating profit.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the seven locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his delegate visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every two years and the most significant of them at least once a year.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: received and accounting proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or proper returns records adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
INFORMA PLC 68 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Directors remuneration We are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Governance Statement Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, other information in in our opinion, information in the annual report is: the Annual Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for of Directors and auditor the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Ian Waller FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 21 February 2014 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 69
