Independent Auditors Report to the members of Inmarsat plc Opinion on financial statements of Inmarsat plc Going concern In our opinion: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 79 that the Group is a going concern.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state We confirm that: of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at we have concluded that the Directors use of the going 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial then ended: statements is appropriate: and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared we have not identified any material uncertainties that may in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: going concern.
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European However, because not all future events or conditions can be Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups Companies Act 2006: and ability to continue as a going concern.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards Our assessment of risks of material misstatement the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive the engagement team: Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes In Equity and the related notes 1 to 38.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The assessment of the carrying amount of goodwill We have challenged the assumptions used by management and intangible assets in undertaking their impairment review as described in note 4 to the financial statements.
In accordance with IAS 36, management is required to carry out an annual impairment review in respect of goodwill and We considered whether managements impairment review intangible assets with indefinite useful economic lives.
methodology is compliant with IAS 36.
Our audit work focused on the assumptions used in the impairment model, Impairment reviews are complex, contain highly judgemental including specifically: assumptions, and are predicated on managements assessment of future profitability.
using valuation experts to determine the appropriateness of the discount rates: There is a risk that the assumptions used in the impairment comparison of growth rates against those achieved review are inappropriate, and hence that the wrong historically and external market data where available: conclusion may be drawn in respect of whether an agreeing the underlying cash flow projections to Board impairment is required.
approved forecasts and corroborating the trends to our other audit work to understand the drivers of impairment: and ensuring that the required disclosures, specifically in respect of the goodwill impairment charges of US$144.5m in note 4 of the financial statements, have been provided.
Accounting for uncertain tax positions In order to ensure the appropriateness of managements assumptions and judgements, we have analysed each The Group has a number of uncertain tax positions yet to be position in turn, reviewed the most recent correspondence agreed with Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC.
with HMRC, considered other cases with similar fact patterns and consulted with internal taxation specialists.
A risk exists that provisions or assets resulting from these uncertain taxation positions may be inappropriately We considered whether managements view of the likely recorded within, or, omitted from the financial statements.
outcome of these individual positions is reasonable and whether the corresponding accounting for each position is appropriate, namely if an outflow is probable, a provision is recorded, or if it is only possible, a contingent liability disclosure is provided.
INMARSAT PLC 72 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Accounting for the LightSquared Cooperation Agreement We have discussed the current commercial situation with respect to LightSquared with management and challenged The Group continues to hold a material balance of deferred the basis of their assumptions to ensure that the previously revenue in respect of the LightSquared Cooperation adopted accounting treatment continues to be appropriate, Agreement.
Risks exist in relation to revenue and cost namely the continued deferral of income in respect of recognition for the agreement, as the accounting is reliant consideration previously received from LightSquared on management judgement, and there is a high degree until there is certainty around whether the Cooperation of uncertainty surrounding the continued contractual Agreement will be restarted or the related services relationship with LightSquared.
Furthermore we have conducted substantive testing of the associated revenue and costs recognised in respect of this arrangement and considered whether managements estimates of the likely future costs of complying with the terms of the Cooperation Agreement are reasonable.
Capitalisation of development costs We have conducted tests of controls in respect of the processes and procedures which govern the capitalisation The Group capitalises significant internal labour costs, of development costs.
Furthermore, we have carried out external costs and qualifying borrowing costs in respect of substantive testing in relation to each element of capitalised major on-going capital projects including the Global Xpress costs including inspecting supporting evidence in respect of and Alphasat programmes.
the capitalised costs, understanding the nature of the costs capitalised and considering whether they are consistent with There is a risk that inappropriate costs which do not meet the originally approved budget for the project.
the criteria for capitalisation in accordance with IAS 16, IAS 38 and IAS 23 are recorded on the balance sheet rather than expensed as incurred.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on An overview of the scope of our audit pages 51.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and Based on that assessment, our Group audit scope focused on not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
four operating locations, which comprise the Inmarsat Global Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with operations headquartered in London together with the Inmarsat respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not Solutions operations headquartered in Canada, Norway and express an opinion on these individual matters.
the United States of America, all of which were subject to a full scope audit.
Together with the Head Office function in London, Our application of materiality which was also subject to a full scope audit for the year ended We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 31 December 2013, the audit of these locations represents 100% financial statements that makes it probable that the economic of the Groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Audits of these locations are We determined materiality for the Group to be US$16.0m, which is performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to a approximately 4% of adjusted pre-tax profit.
Pre-tax profit has been proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative scale adjusted to remove the impact of volatility arising from impairment of the business concerned.
charges recognised in the period.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion the Committee all audit differences in excess of US$320,000, as that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted aggregated financial information of the remaining components reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
The Group audit team follows a programme of planned visits to the Auditors of the significant components of the Group not audited by the Group audit team.
The Senior Statutory Auditor or other senior members of the audit team visit the Auditors of such components at least once every two years and the most significant of them at least once a year.
For all components we include the component audit partner in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 73 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Inmarsat plc continued Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor Act 2006 As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, In our opinion: the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Act 2006: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure Matters on which we are required to report by exception that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, professional standards review team, strategically focused second in our opinion: partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
we have not received all the information and explanations we This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in require for our audit: or accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not Companys members those matters we are required to state to been received from branches not visited by us: or them in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility with the accounting records and returns.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to assurance that the financial statements are free from material be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
This includes an assessment of the following: whether the Corporate Governance Statement accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in annual report is: the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider materially inconsistent with the information in the audited the implications for our report.
financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Stephen Griggs FCA Senior statutory Auditor inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP the course of performing our audit: or Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor otherwise misleading.
London, United Kingdom 6 March 2014 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
INMARSAT PLC 74 Annual Report & Accounts 2013
