GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Independent Auditors UK Report Independent Auditor Report to the members of The measurement of the future redemption liability of the InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Groups loyalty programme: Accounting for the hotel assessments collected as part of We have audited the Group Financial Statements of the revenue cycle and the allocation of expenditures related InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended tothe marketing, advertising and loyalty point programmes 31 December 2013 which comprise the Group income statement, theSystem Fund : theGroup statement of comprehensive income, the Group The assessment of the carrying value of deferred tax assets statement of changes in equity, the Group statement of financial for trading losses: position, the Group statement of cash flows and the related notes 1to 36.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied The accounting for the purchase of a qualifying insurance policy in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial by the UK defined benefit pension plan: and Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The accounting for the disposal of the InterContinental London Park Lane hotel.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our application of materiality Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We determined planning materiality for the Group to be $27m, Companys members those matters we are required to state to them which is approximately 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
We used in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent adjusted pre-tax profit excluding exceptional items and significant permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone liquidated damages as we considered that to be reflective of ongoing other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for operating activity and the most relevant performance measure to the our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
This provided a basis for determining the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
Responsibilities statement on page 100, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 75% of and International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
Our objective in adopting this Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices approach was to ensure that total detected and audit differences Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
in all accounts did not exceed our planning materiality level.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $1.4m, as well as An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable reporting on qualitative grounds.
assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an An overview of the scope of our audit assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and to the Group Financial Statements, we selected 24 components adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting which represent the principal business units within the Group and estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of account for 84% 2012: 70% of the Groups profit before tax and the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and 79% 2012: 78% of the Groups revenue.
15 of these were subject non-financial information in the Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 to a full audit, whilst the remaining nine were subject to a partial to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial audit where the extent of audit work was based on our assessment Statements and to identify any information that is apparently of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, Groups business operations in that component.
These components the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
For the remaining components, we performed other Opinion on Financial Statements procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the Group Financial Statements.
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: The audit work in the 24 components was executed at levels of give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as materiality applicable to each individual entity, which were lower at 31December 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: than Group materiality.
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and The Group audit team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, visited key have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of accounting locations in the US and India, visited owned hotels in the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
France and Hong Kong, reviewed key working papers and was Our assessment of risks of material misstatement responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Group Financial Statements 101 Independent Auditors UK Report continued The principal ways in which we responded to the risks identified The accounting for the disposal of the InterContinental above included: London Park Lane hotel The measurement of the future redemption liability of We reviewed the sale and purchase agreement and the hotel the Groups loyalty programme management agreement to ensure that the fide-recognition of the hotel, at the date of signing the sale and purchase agreement, We tested the effectiveness of internal financial controls over the wasappropriate.
We challenged the key assumptions applied in the liability valuation process.
We undertook substantive procedures and valuation of the hotel management agreement recognised as part analytical procedures to validate the movement in outstanding loyalty of the deemed fair value of consideration on disposal.
We validated points in the year and the balance at the year end.
We used actuarial the calculation of the accounting gain recognised on disposal and specialists to challenge the appropriateness of the methodology, classified as an exceptional item, including the amounts recycled data and assumptions applied by management in determining key from the currency translation reserve.
We ensured that the redemption ratio assumptions for members outstanding loyalty financial statement disclosures, as set out in note 11 were in points at the balance sheet date.
In addition totesting the integrity accordance with accounting standards.
and accuracy of the Groups model, we developed our own model to form an independent view on an acceptable range for the redemption Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies ratios and assess the reasonableness of key assumptions applied by Act 2006 management in valuing the liability.
We undertook substantive and In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and analytical procedures to validate the redeemed point cost to be theDirectors Report for the financial year for which the Group applied in the liability calculation.
Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Group Accounting for the hotel assessments collected as part Financial Statements.
of the revenue cycle and the allocation of expenditures Matters on which we are required to report by exception related to the marketing, advertising and loyalty point programmes the System Fund We have nothing to report in respect of the following: As outlined in the Strategic Report on page 16, the System Fund is a Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, key part of the Groups business model.
In auditing the accounting in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: for the System Fund cash flows, we carried out controls testing and materially inconsistent with the information in the audited undertook substantive and analytical procedures to test that the Financial Statements: or assessment fees and designated System Fund expenditures were apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially properly excluded from the Groups income statement.
We reviewed inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired contractual agreements to validate the appropriateness of costs in the course of performing our audit: or allocated to the System Fund.
The assessment of the carrying value of deferred tax In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified assets for trading losses any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit We evaluated the integrity of the forecast models and considered and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is the appropriateness of managements assumptions and estimates fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report in relation to the likelihood of generating suitable future taxable appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the profits to support the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We evaluated the historical accuracy of forecasting and the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, integrity of the forecast models and as a result of these inour opinion: procedures, we formed our own view on the Groups capacity to get effective relief for tax losses over the forecast period.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or In addition to the risk identified as part of our audit planning, the Group undertook a number of material non-routine transactions in we have not received all the information and explanations we the year which affected the allocation of resources and the direction require for our audit.
of our audit effort and for which our audit response was as follows: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The accounting for the purchase of a qualifying the Directors statement, on page 100, in relation to going insurance policy by the UK defined benefit pension plan concern:and We evaluated the terms of the insurance policy purchased by the the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to UK defined benefit pension plan to ensure it met the criteria to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK be classified as a qualifying insurance policy.
We challenged the Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
assumptions used by management in the IAS 19 pension liability Other matter valuation as at the date of the buy-in transaction and we used Ernst& Young LLP pension actuaries to assist us with this We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial procedure.
We tested the valuation of retirement benefit assets Statements of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year transferred to the insurance company as consideration for the ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors insurance policy and tested the calculation of the resultant Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
$147m accounting loss recognised as a result of this transaction.
Alison Duncan Senior statutory auditor We considered the appropriateness of classifying the loss as for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London an exceptional item in accordance with the Groups disclosed 17 February 2014 accounting policy for exceptional items.
Pages 101 and 102 do not form part of IHGs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
102 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
