GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Independent Auditors US Report Report of independent registered public accounting firm We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the on internal control over financial reporting PublicCompany Accounting Oversight Board United States, theaccompanying Group statement of financial position of To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of InterContinental InterContinental Hotels Group PLC as of 31 December 2013 and Hotels Group PLC.
2012, and the related Group income statement, Group statement We have audited InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs internal of comprehensive income, Group statement of changes in equity control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2013, based on and Group statement of cash flows for each of the three years in the criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework period ended 31 December 2013, and our report dated 17 February issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Treadway Commission 1992 Framework the COSO criteria.
ERNST & YOUNG LLP InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs management is responsible London, England 17 February 2014 for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over InterContinental Hotels Group PLC report of financial reporting included in the Annual Report and Form 20-F. independent registered public accounting firm Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Groups internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards We have audited the accompanying Group statement of financial require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable position of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC as of 31 December 2013 assurance about whether effective internal control over financial and 2012, and the related Group income statement, Group statement reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit of comprehensive income, Group statement of changes inequity and included obtaining an understanding of internal control over Group statement of cash flows for each of the three years in the financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness period ended 31 December 2013.
These financial statements are the exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness responsibility of the Groups management.
Our responsibility is to of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such express an opinion on these Financial Statements based on our audits.
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of Webelieve that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
A groups internal control over financial reporting is a process Thosestandards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements are of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the principles.
A groups internal control over financial reporting includes Financial Statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the maintenance of principles used and significant estimates made by management, records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the group: 2 provide We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary In our opinion, the Financial Statements referred to above present to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC at 31 December 2013 expenditures of the group are being made only in accordance and 2012, and the consolidated results of its operations and its with authorisations of management and directors of the group: consolidated cash flows for each of the three years in the period and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely ended 31 December 2013, in conformity with International detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the groups Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial International Accounting Standards Board.
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the PublicCompany Accounting Oversight Board United States, risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs internal control over conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or financialreporting as of 31 December 2013, based on criteria procedures may deteriorate.
established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued In our opinion, InterContinental Hotels Group PLC maintained, in all by theCommittee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting Commission 1992 Framework and our report dated 17 February as of 31 December 2013, based on the COSO criteria.
ERNST & YOUNG LLP London, England 17 February 2014 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the InterContinental Hotels Group PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
