overvIew strAteGIC report GovernAnCe FInAnCIAl stAteMents Interserve AnnuAl report 2013 FInAnCIAl stAteMents InDepenDent AuDItors report to tHe MeMBers oF Interserve plC 99 InDepenDent AuDItors report to tHe MeMBers oF Interserve plC opInIon on FInAnCIAl stAteMents In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 34 and the related notes to the Company financial statements A to Q.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
GoInG ConCern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 50 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
our AssessMent oF rIsks oF MAterIAl MIsstAteMent The assessed risks of material misstatement described overleaf are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: 100 Interserve AnnuAl report 2013 FInAnCIAl stAteMents InDepenDent AuDItors report to tHe MeMBers oF Interserve plC InDepenDent AuDItors report to tHe MeMBers oF Interserve plC ConTInUED Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk revenue and margin recognition our response to the risk in this area, with a focus on those key The recognition of revenue and margin on long-term and contracts in progress at the year end, included: service contracts, including the related receivables and testing of selected key controls surrounding the payables, is an area of management judgement including in recognition of revenue and margin on contracts: respect of the recovery of pre-contract costs, the impact review of managements assessment of the existence and of any changes in scope of work, the expected costs of valuation of claims and variations within contract revenue completion and assessment of any other liabilities arising.
This testing included, as appropriate, obtaining the breakdown of variations and claims and assessing these against the terms of the contract, obtaining the approved variation orders and checking the recognition of any such amounts was in line with the Groups accounting policy: review of managements assessment of the costs to complete on a contract where significant, as part of our overall review of the cost-value reconciliation process.
This included assessment of the latest forecast against the initial tender and obtaining explanations for any significant changes between these: and assessment of the recoverability of related receivables including work-in-progress and pre-contract costs.
This was tested on a sample basis through agreement to post period end invoicing, post period end cash receipt or agreement to the terms of the contract in place, as appropriate.
Measurement of impairment of goodwill our response to the risk in this area included evaluating Management judgement must be applied in estimating the managements assumptions used in the impairment testing value in use of a cash generating unit including the amount model, as described in note 13 to the financial statements, and timing of future cash flows forecasted from the cash including specifically the cash flow projections from the latest generating unit and the discount rate to be applied.
budgets and the discount rate applied to those cash flows.
In respect of the discount rate we benchmarked the rate against other companies which were considered to be comparable with the Company as well as reviewed managements sensitivity analysis performed in respect of changes in this rate.
As part of our review of the cash flow projections we gained an understanding of managements processes and key controls within this area as well as their ability to construct accurate projections through consideration of the historical forecasting accuracy.
We reviewed managements sensitivity analysis performed in respect of changes in the growth rate which impacts these projections.
retirement benefit obligations our response to the risk in this area included consideration Calculation of the retirement benefit obligation requires that of managements assumptions in calculating the retirement management makes a number of assumptions including around benefit obligation, as set out in note 30 to the financial the discount rate to be applied and mortality.
statements, including through the use of benchmarking of key assumptions such as the discount rate and mortality rates to those used by other companies.
We utilised our in-house actuarial specialists in this area.
overvIew strAteGIC report GovernAnCe FInAnCIAl stAteMents Interserve AnnuAl report 2013 FInAnCIAl stAteMents InDepenDent AuDItors report to tHe MeMBers oF Interserve plC 101 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Measurement of impairment of the fleet within our response to the risk in this area included evaluating equipment services managements assumptions used in the impairment testing The carrying value of the fleet in Equipment Services is model including specifically the cash flow projections from the 101.3 million 2012: 102.1 million and a number of factors latest budgets, the discount rate applied to those cash flows including technological changes, prospective utilisation and the sensitivities applied to these key assumptions.
and the physical condition of the assets must be taken into In respect of the discount rate we compared this to the account when assessing whether the useful economic lives of rate used by the Group in other areas and considered the the fleet remain appropriate.
sensitivity of the impairment calculation to changes in this rate.
In respect of the cash flow projections we gained an understanding of managements processes and key controls within this area as well as their ability to construct accurate projections through consideration of the historical forecasting accuracy.
Growth assumptions within the projections were compared to long-term rates published externally and the sensitivity of the impairment calculation to changes in these rates considered.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on pages 74 and 75. our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
our ApplICAtIon oF MAterIAlIty We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.9 million, which is approximately 5 per cent of adjusted profit before tax and approximately 1 per cent of equity.
We use adjusted profit before tax to exclude the effect of volatility for example exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangible assets from our determination and as it represents a key performance measure for the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 78,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overvIew oF tHe sCope oF our AuDIt our Group audit scope focused primarily on the Groups operations within the UK, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, which were subject to a full scope audit.
These were subject to a full scope audit due to their financial significance to the Group as a whole or based upon our assessment of the risks of material misstatement or a combination of both.
The Groups operations subject to a full scope audit account for 83 per cent of the Groups operating profit and 94 per cent of revenue.
The remaining operations of the Group, in a number of different geographical locations, were subject to analytical review, the selection of which was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups business operations at those locations.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits to the significant operations of the Group.
A senior member of the Group audit team has visited the United Arab Emirates and Qatar in the year.
102 Interserve AnnuAl report 2013 FInAnCIAl stAteMents InDepenDent AuDItors report to tHe MeMBers oF Interserve plC InDepenDent AuDItors report to tHe MeMBers oF Interserve plC ConTInUED opInIon on otHer MAtters presCrIBeD By tHe CoMpAnIes ACt 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MAtters on wHICH we Are requIreD to report By exCeptIon Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate Governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
our duty to read other information in the Annual report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
respeCtIve responsIBIlItIes oF DIreCtors AnD AuDItor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with the International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
overvIew strAteGIC report GovernAnCe FInAnCIAl stAteMents Interserve AnnuAl report 2013 FInAnCIAl stAteMents InDepenDent AuDItors report to tHe MeMBers oF Interserve plC 103 This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
sCope oF tHe AuDIt oF tHe FInAnCIAl stAteMents An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
stephen Griggs senior statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte llp Chartered Accountants and statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 28 February 2014
