Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Independent auditors report to the members of AMEC plc Registered number 1675285 We have audited the parent company accounts of AMEC plc have been properly prepared in accordance with United for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and thecompany balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 10. have been prepared in accordance with the The financial reporting framework that has been applied requirements of the Companies Act 2006. intheir preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Opinion on other matters prescribed bythe Accepted Accounting Practice.
Companies Act 2006 This report is made solely to the companys members, In our opinion: asabody, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken audited has been properly prepared in accordance with so that we might state to the companys members those the Companies Act 2006: and matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the information given in the Strategic Report and the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Directors Report for the financial year for which the to anyone other than the company and the companys accounts are prepared is consistent with the parent members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, company accounts.
orfor the opinions we have formed.
Matters on which we are required toreport Respective responsibilities of directors by exception andauditor We have nothing to report in respect of the following As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to Statement set out on page 90 the directors are responsible report to you if, in our opinion: for the preparation of the parent company accounts and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the forbeing satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the not been received from branches not visited by us: or parent company accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and the parent company accounts and the part of the Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Scope of the audit of the accounts certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the accounts sufficient to give we have not received all the information and reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from explanations we require for our audit.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Other matter policies are appropriate to the parent companys We have reported separately on the group accounts circumstances and have been consistently applied and ofAMEC plc for the year ended 31 December 2013. adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the Hywel Ball Senior statutory auditor overall presentation of the accounts.
In addition, we read all for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, the financial and non-financial information in the annual Statutory Auditor, London report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited accounts.
If we become aware of any apparent material 13 February 2014 misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
The maintenance and integrity of the AMEC plc web site is the Opinion on accounts responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors In our opinion the parent company accounts: does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have give a true and fair view of the state of the companys occurred to the financial statements since they were initially affairs as at 31 December 2013: presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation inother jurisdictions AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 147
