Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Independent auditors report to the members of AMEC plc Registered number 1675285 We have audited the consolidated accounts of AMEC plc Opinion on consolidated accounts forthe year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise In our opinion the consolidated accounts: theConsolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated give a true and fair view of the state of the groups Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its profit for the Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 28.
The financial reporting framework have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs that has been applied in their preparation isapplicable law as adopted by the European Union: and and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as have been prepared in accordance with the adopted by the European Union.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and This report is made solely to the companys members, article4ofthe IAS regulation.
asabody, in accordance with Chapter 3 of part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Our assessment of risks of material so that we might state to the companys members those misstatement matters we are required to state to them in an auditors We identified the following risks that we believed would report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent have the greatest impact on our overall audit strategy: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility theallocation of resources in the audit: and directing to anyone other than the company and the companys theefforts of the engagement team: members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Revenue recognition on contracts and valuation of orfor the opinions we have formed.
gross amounts due from customers and receivables: Respective responsibilities of directors Adequacy of contract and other provisions: andauditor Adequacy of legacy liabilities: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 90, the directors are responsible Valuation of pension assets and liabilities: for the preparation of the consolidated accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true andfair view.
Risk of fraud and management override: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Adequacy of taxation provisions: consolidated accounts in accordance with applicable law Presentation of discontinued operations: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Recognition and presentation of research and Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Our application of materiality consolidatedaccounts We determined materiality for the group to be 15 million An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 2012: 15 million, which is approximately 5% 2012: 5% and disclosures in the consolidated accounts sufficient to of pre-tax profit for the year adjusted for exceptional give reasonable assurance that the consolidated accounts items.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, are free from material misstatement, whether caused by timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether identifying and assessing the risk of material the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups misstatement and determining the nature, timing and circumstances and have been consistently applied and extent of further audit procedures.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant On the basis of our risk assessments, together with accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall ourassessment of the overall control environment, presentation of the consolidated accounts.
In addition, ourjudgement is that performance materiality was 75% weread all the financial and non-financial information 2012: 75% of our materiality, namely 11.25 million inthe Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies 2012: 11.25 million.
Our objective in adopting this with the audited consolidated accounts and to identify approach was to ensure that uncorrected and undetected anyinformation that is materially incorrect based on, or audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us planning materiality level.
in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 91 Independent auditors report to the members of AMEC plc continued Registered number 1675285 Weconsider these to be the key judgemental areas Our application of materiality continued driving the recognition of revenue and margins in respect We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report of long term contracts.
We also assessed whether to them corrected and uncorrected audit differences managements policies and processes for making these inexcess of 0.5 million 2012: 0.5 million, as well estimates continue to be robust and are applied asdifferences below that threshold that in our view consistently to all contracts.
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Adequacy of contract and other provisions An overview of the scope of our audit Adequacy of legacy liabilities Our group audit scope focussed on three operating units, all of which were subject to a full scope audit for the year We challenged and applied professional scepticism tojudgements and accounting treatments made ended 31 December 2013.
An additional seven operating units were selected for specific scope audit procedures bymanagement arising from contractual disputes andother risks.
We performed audit procedures on where the extent of audit work was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of supporting calculations and assumptions to challenge whether these are appropriate in the circumstances and the materiality of those locations to the groups business operations.
Together with the group functions which were in line with the groups accounting policies as well as the requirements of IFRS.
Where appropriate we have held also subject to a full or specific scope audit for the year ended 31 December 2013, these locations represent the discussions with managements legal experts.
principal business units of the group and account for 91% Valuation of pension assets and liabilities of the groups revenue, 95% of the groups profit before tax, We challenged the key actuarial assumptions used by and 91% of the groups total assets.
management to determine the defined benefit pension Audits of these locations are performed at a performance accounting position.
This included holding discussions materiality level calculated with reference to a proportion with the external actuary used to value the schemes.
ofthe group materiality appropriate to the relative scale Wealso performed audit procedures on the input data and risk associated with each location.
They are also selected used by the actuary in the valuations and the disclosures to provide a basis for undertaking audit work to address made in the consolidated accounts.
the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Risk of fraud and management override The group audit team follows a programme of planned Procedures included analytical procedures and journal sitevisits that is designed to ensure that the Senior entry testing in order to identify and address the risk of Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each full scope management override of controls.
We designed testing location at least once every other year on a rotational basis.
procedures and thresholds for all balances in such a way This year, the group team visited two out of three full scope as to ensure that the risk of fraud and error is mitigated.
locations, reviewed key working papers, participated in the component teams planning including the discussion of Adequacy of taxation provisions fraud and error, and attended the audit closing meetings We challenged and applied professional scepticism to for each full scope component.
taxexposures estimated by management and the risk analysis associated with these exposures along with The principal ways in which we responded to the risks claims or assessments made by tax authorities to date.
identified above included: We performed audit procedures on the calculation and Revenue recognition on contracts and disclosure of deferred tax to assess compliance with local tax rules and the groups accounting policies including valuation of gross amounts due from the impact of complex items such as managements customers and receivables assessment of the likelihood of the recoverability of We performed audit procedures on the controls in place deferred tax assets.
These assessments relate to the toassess the appropriate determination of the percentage accuracy of management forecasts and the time period completion of each significant contract.
We challenged over which assets are likely to be recovered.
management in respect of the reasonableness of judgements made regarding the cost to complete estimate, the timing of recognition of variation orders, theadequacy of contingency provisions to mitigate contract specific risks and their assessments around the potential for liquidated damages for projects behind schedule.
92 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Independent auditors report to the members of AMEC plc continued Registered number 1675285 Under Companies Act 2006 we are required to report Presentation of discontinued operations toyou if, in our opinion: We challenged and applied professional scepticism tojudgements made by management in concluding certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified thatall relevant criteria had been met in order to classify by law are not made: or the UK Conventional Power business as discontinued, we have not received all the information and inaccordance with IFRS.
We have also performed explanations we require for our audit.
auditprocedures on the disclosures made in the consolidated accounts.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Recognition and Presentation of research the directors statement, set out on page 89, in relation and development government credits to going concern: and We challenged the appropriateness of the groups the part of the Corporate Governance Statement accounting policy in respect of the classification of relating to the companys compliance with the nine theUSresearch and development government credits provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code within operating profit rather than the tax expense line.
As this presentation is judgemental owing to lack of specific guidance in IFRS and mixed practice amongst Other matter IFRS reporters in this area, we have agreed that the We have reported separately on the parent company policy applied is appropriate.
This policy is required for accounts of AMEC plc for the year ended 31December 2013 the firsttime this year.
and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described ashaving been audited.
Opinions on other matter prescribed byCompanies Act 2006 Hywel Ball Senior statutory auditor In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory auditor, London forwhich the consolidated accounts are prepared isconsistent with the consolidated accounts.
13 February 2014 Matters on which we are required to Notes: report by exception 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the AMEC plc web site is the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual occurred to the financial statements since they were initially report is: presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and materially inconsistent with the information in the dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation inother jurisdictions audited consolidated accounts: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 93
