Financial statements Independent audItors report to the membersof Ite Group plc opinion In our opinion the consolidated and Parent Company financial statements of ITE Group plc: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Consolidated financial statementshave been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated and company income statements, the consolidated and company statements of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company statement of financial position, the consolidated and company cash flow statements, the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity, and the related notes 1 to 28.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted bythe European Union.
separate opinion in relation to Ifrss as issued by the Iasb As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
basis for opinions We have audited the consolidated and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described below under Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor.
In performing our audit as required by those standards, wecomplied with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors including those requiring us to be independent and objective.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Finance Directors statement on page 37 that the business is a going concern.
We confirm that we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue as a going concern which we believe would need to be disclosed in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and we have concluded that managements use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements to be appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 72 Strategic report Governance Financial statements auditor commentary our assessment of risks of material misstatement significant to our audit The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team: the assessment of the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill.
Management is required to carry out an annual impairment test, which is complex and judgemental and based on a number of assumptions including future profitability and discount rates: the recoverability of venue rental advances.
These advances are made to venue owners and the recoverability depends on the future performance of the venue and the counterparties: accounting for businesses acquired by the Group.
The Group has made a number of acquisitions and the accounting foreach involves judgement and is based on assumptions about the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired: and revenue recognition, including the validity of revenue and cutoff.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement we define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial statements, would bechanged or influenced.
We also determine a level of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
In line with generally accepted practice, we calculated planning materiality for the Group as approximately 5% of profit before tax, which equated to 2.0 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 40,000, aswell as differences below that threshold that in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds an overview of the scope of our audit An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired byus in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our Group audit scope focused on five operating locations, being the Groups operations in London, Leeds, Russia, Turkey and Kazakhstan which were subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 30 September 2013.
These locations represent the principal business units of the Group and account for 85% of the Groups revenue and 85% of the Groups operating profit.
Audits of these locations are performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the businesses concerned.
In the remaining locations, analytical review andfocussed testing is performed by the London Head Office team.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Financial statements Independent audItors report to the membersof Ite Group plc continued The Group audit team follows a programme of planned site visits that is designed to ensure the Senior Statutory Auditor orhis designate visits the principal locations in Russia at least once a year and remaining locations as part of our rotation strategy.
The Group audit team also holds detailed meetings with audit teams in the other locations.
The way in which we scoped our response to the significant risks identified above was as follows: The assessment of the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill for goodwill and intangibles we challenged managements assumptions used in the impairment model for goodwill and intangible assets, described in note 11 to thefinancial statements, including specifically the cash flow projections, discount rates and sensitivities used.
The recoverability of venue rental advances for the assessment of the carrying value of venue rental advances we have reviewed the underlying agreements, considered and challenged management assumptions over future recoverability, suchas the review of future exhibition plans and venue usage, and audited repayments and utilisation in the year.
Accounting for businesses acquired by the Group we reviewed the sale and purchase agreements and audited the acquisition accounting.
This included testing the validity and completeness of consideration and evaluating managements assumptions and methodology supporting the fair values of intangible and net assets acquired for each significant acquisition in the period.
Revenue recognition our procedures included understanding and testing the controls in respect of the Groups revenue cycle and testing the revenue recognised in the period using a combination of substantive analytical procedures and tests of detail.
In particular, to test validity and completeness of revenue, testing focused on managements floor plan audits, where the final exhibition floor plan is reconciled to sales reports and invoices.
The Audit and Risk Committees consideration of these judgements is set out on page 52. opinion on other matters prescribed by the companies act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
matters on which we are required to report by exception adequacy of explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement withthe accounting records and returns.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 74 Strategic report Governance Financial statements corporate Governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising fromour review.
our duty to read other information in the annual report Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
mark leeamies Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of deloitte LLP chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London united Kingdom 2 december 2013 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75
