104 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Financials Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ITV plc Only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of ITV Plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 109 to 173.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Goups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows.
The Audit Committees consideration of these significant risks is set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 75.
The risk Our response Revenue recognition and contractual arrangements see note 2.1 The Groups revenue consists primarily of advertising, programme production and programme rights.
Net Advertising Revenue NAR 1,542 million The majority of ITVs advertising revenue NAR is subject to regulation Our audit procedures included: under Ofcoms Contract Rights Renewal system CRR.
CRR works by testing of controls, assisted by our own IT specialists, ensuring that the annual share of TV advertising that will be placed including those over: input of individual campaigns terms with ITV by each advertising agency can change in relation to the and pricing, comparison of those terms and pricing data viewing figures for commercial television that it delivers.
The CRR against the related overarching contracts with advertising system, the pricing of the annual contractual arrangements with agencies: linkage to transmission viewer data: and advertising agencies and the details of each advertising campaign, segregation of duties: together with the related processes and controls, are complex and testing managements review controls over: contract involve estimation.
approval: periodic deal reconciliations: and the deal debt adjustment: In particular, the pricing mechanism means it is possible for a difference analysis of revenue based on our industry knowledge and to arise between the price received by ITV for an advertising campaign external market data, following up variances: and and the value it delivered, mainly as a result of the actual viewing challenging the year end deal debt adjustment based on figures being different from the agreed level.
Where the Group has comparison with customers correspondence and agreed over-delivered viewers this is referred to as a deal credit, or a deal terms of business.
debt where delivery has fallen short.
Rather than the price paid for that campaign being adjusted, these differences are noted for each agency and then taken account of when agreeing either future campaigns or the annual contract.
Only a net deal debt position with an agency is recorded in ITVs accounts, as a liability.
NAR is therefore considered a significant risk due to: the quantum and complexity of contractual agreements with advertising agencies: the complexity of the systems and processes of control used to record revenue: and the level of estimation involved in determining the deal debt liability at the period end.
com Stock code: ITV The risk Our response Other revenue streams Non-NAR revenue 847 million of external revenue Non-NAR revenue includes revenue from: programme production, the Our audit procedures included testing of controls over the sale of programme rights, transmission supply arrangements and the timing of revenue recognition, and the accounting for new Online, Pay & Interactive division within the Broadcast segment.
We considered the revenue policies against the relevant accounting standards.
For the larger Recognition of non-NAR revenue is primarily driven by the related contracts entered into during the year, and for a statistical contracts.
It is considered to be a risk as the contracts can be sample of all contracts, we tested whether revenue had been complex and the terms are varied, with the result that accounting recognised in accordance with the contractual terms, given the for the revenue generated in any given period can require individual requirements of the relevant accounting standard.
Acquisition accounting see notes 3.3 and 3.4 During the year, ITV acquired four production companies for an For each significant acquisition: aggregate initial consideration of 66 million.
We critically assessed the treatment of earnout arrangements Accounting for acquisitions requires the Group to determine the fair and options against the relevant accounting standards.
value of the consideration transferred, the non-controlling interests We used our own valuation specialists to assist us in critically NCI and the assets acquired as part of the acquisition.
assessing the appropriateness of the identified intangibles This requires the Group to make a number of judgements, which focus against the criteria of the relevant accounting standards.
on, but are not limited to: assessment of the earnout arrangements Our audit procedures also included testing the principles and entered into with selling shareholders whether it is acquisition integrity of the asset valuation models used, comparison of the consideration or post-acquisition remuneration, assessing options input assumptions to externally and internally derived data as granted to the Group over shares of the acquired business whether the well as our own assessments in relation to key inputs such as the Group has a liability for the option price and determining the fair value likelihood of shows being recommissioned: and the impact of of the assets acquired.
the loss of key talent on the forecasts.
In summary, acquisition accounting is considered to be a significant risk due to the level of judgement required to be applied over numerous assumptions in establishing the fair values of consideration transferred and acquired assets.
Defined benefit pension schemes 445 million, see note 3.7 The valuation of the pensions liability requires significant judgement Our audit procedures included an assessment of the and estimation to be applied across numerous assumptions.
competency and objectivity of the actuarial specialists engaged by the Group.
Further, the application of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement in 2013 has led to a change in the valuation approach for the longevity swap, with We compared the valuation methodology, in particular for the the value of the swap increasing by 95 million in 2013. longevity swap, with relevant accounting standards and market practices.
The key valuation assumptions are set out in note 3.7 in the keeping We also challenged the key assumptions supporting the it simple section on page 148.
When deciding on these assumptions retirement benefit obligation and swap valuations, with input the Group takes independent actuarial advice relating to their from our own actuarial specialists.
of the mortality, discount and inflation rates used against The valuation is considered to be a significant risk as, given the externally derived data.
quantum of the net deficit, small changes in the assumptions can have We obtained third party confirmation of the pension schemes a material financial impact on the Group.
We considered the appropriateness of the disclosures described in note 3.7.
23043-04 06-12-2013 Proof 1 102-119 Independent Aud  1. indd 105 28 02 2014 12:29:30 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 106 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Financials Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ITV plc Only The risk Our response Royalty accruals 71 million, see note 3.1.
5 The Group pays royalties directly to artists producers for all content Among other procedures, we tested controls over the recording used.
The contractual terms of these agreements are varied and of royalty costs and the approval of royalty payments.
We also re-performed a sample of the year end calculations, The related IT systems can only address part of the processing, agreeing key inputs to contracts and the underlying system necessitating a significant manual element in calculating the year end data.
royalty accrual recorded by the Group.
Overall the process is complex, In addition, we performed analytical procedures comparing though core to the Groups operations.
royalty costs as a percentage of the related income streams The volume and variety of contracts being interpreted and accounted to budgets and prior periods, taking account of any expected for combined with the manual nature of the process increases the risk changes.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Our materiality for the Group financial Consequently, corrected and uncorrected statements as a whole has been determined For 2013 our materiality for the Group audit differences are explained to the Audit with reference to: financial statements as a whole was set at: Committee.
21m We explain audit differences with a We consider this to be one of the principal This represents 5% of Group profit before quantitative impact of over 1 million, in considerations for members of the company tax.
addition to other audit misstatements in assessing the financial performance of the below that threshold that we believe Group.
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Groups principal operations are in the United Kingdom and represent 89% of total Group revenue, 95% of Group profit before tax and 92% of Group total assets.
Only the UK operations are scoped in for Group reporting purposes.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the UK operations as if they were a single aggregated set of financial information using the materiality levels set out above.
Although not in-scope for Group reporting purposes, in agreement with the audit committee and coterminus with the audit of the Group and the UK operations, audits were performed in Australia and Germany to local materiality levels and specified audit procedures were also performed on four entities in the US.
Together these audits and specified audit procedures covered 99% of total Group revenue, 99% of Group profit before taxation: and 99% of total Group assets.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
com Stock code: ITV 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 115, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 67 to 74 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 66, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mark Summerfield Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 26 February 2014 23043-04 06-12-2013 Proof 1 102-119 Independent Aud  1. indd 107 28 02 2014 12:29:30 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 108 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Financials Introduction and Table of Contents In this section...
The financial statements have been presented in a style which attempts to make them less complex and more relevant to shareholders.
We have grouped the note disclosures into five sections: Basis of Preparation, Results for the Year, Operating Assets and Liabilities, Capital Structure and Financing Costs and Other Notes.
Each section sets out the accounting policies applied in producing the relevant notes, along with details of any key judgements and estimates used.
The purpose of this format is to provide readers with a clearer understanding of what drives financial performance of the Group.
The aim of the text in boxes is to provide commentary on each section, or note, in plain English.
Keeping it simple... Notes to the financial statements provide information required by statute, accounting standards or Listing Rules to explain a particular feature of the financial statements.
The notes which follow will also provide explanations and additional disclosure to assist readers understanding and interpretation of the annual report and the financial statements.
Contents Page Primary statements Consolidated Income Statement 109 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 110 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 111 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 112 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 114 Section 1: Basis of Preparation 115 Section 2: Results for the Year 120 2.1 Profit before tax 120 2.2 Exceptional items 123 2.3 Taxation 124 2.4 Earnings per share 127 Section 3: Operating Assets and Liabilities 129 3.1 Working capital 129 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 132 3.3 Intangible assets 134 3.4 Acquisitions 139 3.5 Assets held for sale and disposals 142 3.6 Provisions 142 3.7 Pensions 143 Section 4: Capital Structure and Financing Costs 151 4.1 Net cash 151 4.2 Borrowings and held to maturity investments 153 4.3 Derivative financial instruments 156 4.4 Net financing costs 157 4.5 Financial risk factors 158 4.6 Fair value hierarchy 161 4.7 Equity 162 Section 5: Other Notes 167 5.1 Related party transactions 167 5.2 Contingent liabilities 168 5.3 Subsequent events 168 5.4 Subsidiaries exempt from audit 168 ITV plc Company Financial Statements 169 Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements 170 Financial Record 174 Shareholder Information 175 23043-04 06-12-2013 Proof 1 102-119 Independent Aud  1. indd 108 10 03 2014 16:26:09
