INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of J D Wetherspoon plc We have audited the financial statements of have been prepared in accordance with the J D Wetherspoon plc for the 52-week period ended requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
28 July 2013 which comprise the income statement, the statement of comprehensive income, the cash flow Opinion on other matters prescribed by the statement, the balance sheet, the statement of changes Companies Act 2006 in shareholders equity, the accounting policies and the In our opinion: related notes.
The financial reporting framework which has been applied in their preparation is applicable law the part of the directors remuneration report to be and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs audited has been properly prepared in accordance with as adopted by the European Union.
the Companies Act 2006. the information given in the directors report for the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial year for which the financial statements are As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
statement, set out on pages 44 and 45, the directors are the information given in the corporate governance responsible for the preparation of the financial statements statement, set out on pages 51 to 55, with respect to and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
internal control and risk-management systems and about Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on share capital structures, is consistent with the financial the financial statements, in accordance with applicable statements.
law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Matters on which we are required to report Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for, and only for, the Companys members as a body, in Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies report to you if, in our opinion: Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any adequate accounting records have not been kept or other purpose or to any other person to whom this report returns adequate for our audit have not been received is shown or into whose hands it may come, save where from branches not visited by us: or expressly agreed on by our prior consent in writing.
the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement Scope of the audit of the financial statements with the accounting records and returns: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to by law are not made: or give reasonable assurance that the financial statements we have not received all of the information and are free from material misstatement, whether caused by explanations which we require for our audit: or fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether a corporate governance statement has not been the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys prepared by the Company.
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: accounting estimates made by the directors: the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we the directors statement, set out on pages 44 and 45, read all of the financial and non-financial information in in relation to going concern.
the annual report, to identify material inconsistencies with the parts of the corporate governance statement the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of relating to the Companys compliance with the nine any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code we consider the implications for our report.
certain elements of the report to shareholders Opinion on financial statements by the board on directors remuneration.
In our opinion, the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor affairs as at 28 July 2013 and of its profit and cash flows for and on behalf of  LLP for the year then ended.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors have been properly prepared, in accordance with IFRSs London as adopted by the European Union.
