56 Independent auditors report to the members of John Wood Group PLC Overview of our audit approach Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion Materiality In our opinion the Group financial statements, defined below: We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the whole.
year then ended: Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Group financial statements as a whole to be $22m, which is based on the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Groups profit before tax.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Overview of the scope of our audit Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Group has three divisions: Wood Group PSN: Wood Group Engineering: This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of and Wood Group GTS, spread across 50 countries.
The Group financial this report.
statements are a consolidation of the reporting units within these divisions and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the What we have audited type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the The Group financial statements, which are prepared by John Wood Group group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK, from other PLC, comprise: PwC network firms and other firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to the Consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been income for the year then ended: obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: and Through a combination of full scope audits and directed scope procedures we performed work at the Groups principal reporting units.
This, together the notes to the financial statements, which include the accounting with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the policies and other related notes.
evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report continued 57 Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 32.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Significant Lump Sum, Fixed Price and Engineering, Procurement and Construction EPC Contracts We have focused on this area as the Group has a small number of In 2013, lump sum, fixed price and EPC contracts made up less than contracts on which the profit or loss is recognised subject to management 10% of revenue.
Discussions were held with both senior management and estimation.
Managements evaluation of whether contacts are onerous also operational staff to update our understanding and to establish the future relies on management judgement.
outlook of these major contracts.
We tested the inputs costs incurred and billed along with the revenue and profit then recognised, as well as the basis for provision for losses and assessment of whether the contracts are onerous.
Valuation of GTS engines The Group holds engines with a view to resale or use within EPC contracts.
We evaluated the carrying value of the engines by challenging Given the nature of the engines and the lack of recent sales there is managements forecast and assumptions as it relates to existing and new potential for overstatement on the valuation of inventory.
opportunities to sell the engines.
We obtained external market data to corroborate the valuation of the engines.
Current and deferred tax balances The Group operates in a number of different tax regimes and must comply We tested the Group tax provision and the calculation of the provisions for with various corporate tax regulations in the countries in which they a number of significant entities, as well as the judgements surrounding the operate.
basis for deferred tax assets and liabilities.
This included deferred tax assets relating to share-based compensation and the pension scheme.
We also Our focus on this area was specifically on the completeness of the tested the basis for significant uncertain tax positions.
Additionally, we held provision for uncertain tax positions and the recognition of current and discussions with Group management including the in-house tax specialists deferred tax assets and liabilities and their impact on the effective tax rate.
to identify any significant tax compliance issues.
Areas of focus Significant risks prescribed by Auditing Standards How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Fraud in revenue recognition Auditing standards require that we consider the risk of fraud in revenue We tested the timing of revenue recognition taking into account contractual recognition.
We have focused on the potential manipulation of revenue by obligations and validity of manual journal entries.
We also tested the the manual posting of journal entries on top of the day-to-day recording of revenue from significant Engineering, Procurement and Construction transactions.
contracts, which are subject to managements estimates.
Management override of controls Auditing standards require that we consider the risk that management may We tested key reconciliations and manual journal entries.
We considered override controls within their organisation.
whether there was evidence of bias by the directors in the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements.
Employees in management positions are incentivised by financial We also assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including performance measures and as a result, fraud risk, due to over-ride of the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and controls and or manipulation of results may be increased.
interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 58 Independent auditors report to the members of John Wood Group PLC Going concern Other information in the Annual Report Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, set out on page 34, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report information in the Annual Report is: having performed our review.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it statements: or is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors audit: or intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use is otherwise misleading.
of the going concern basis is appropriate.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, Opinion on matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Review and the Directors statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Adequacy of information and explanations received Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we require these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to for our audit.
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may Directors remuneration come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required Other matter to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these of John Wood Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on responsibilities.
the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as Corporate Governance Statement having been audited.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Lindsay Gardiner Senior Statutory Auditor Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with for and on behalf of  LLP nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors nothing to report having performed our review.
Aberdeen Within the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the 17 February 2014 directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
As required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
