106 Independent auditors report to the members of John Wood Group PLC What an audit of financial statements involves Report on the Parent Company financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Our opinion Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes at 31 December 2013: an assessment of: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the adequately disclosed: Companies Act 2006. the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of directors: and this report.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the What we have audited Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Parent The Parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by John Company financial statements and to identify any information that is Wood Group PLC, comprise: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we the Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
the Parent Company reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds for the year then ended: and the notes to the Parent Company financial statements, which include Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors comprises applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards Report for the financial year for which the Parent Company financial United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they have made properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. assumptions and considered future events.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report continued 107 Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations Our responsibilities and those of the directors received As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial opinion: statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company our audit: or financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to accounting records and returns.
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other matter Directors remuneration We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of John Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our Wood Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2013. opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, Lindsay Gardiner Senior Statutory Auditor information in the Annual Report is: for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Parent Aberdeen Company financial statements: or 17 February 2014 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
