Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Our response In light of this, we assessed the potential for impairment of all cash generating units within the Group Independent irrespective of whether indicators of potential impairment had been identied.
Our audit procedures included, among others, auditors report testing the control designed and applied by the Group to ensure that its impairment analysis is appropriately undertaken and reviewed.
We evaluated the identication of cash generating WR WKH PHPEHUV RI units by the Group against the requirements of accounting standards, taking into account any business changes during the.
We considered the estimates of fair value less costs to sell which the Group derived, as is common in the industry, on a discounted cash ow basis.
We challenged the appropriateness of key assumptions underlying the discounted cash ows including Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit commodity prices, production costs, ination, foreign exchange, 1 Our opinion on financial statements is unmodied production volume, discount rates, life of assets and ore reserves, We have audited the financial statements of Kazakhmys PLC for committed capital expenditure for development projects based the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 98 to 160. on historical production information, together with market and In our opinion: other externally available information.
We used our valuation the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state specialists to assess the discount rate used.
We tested the of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at mathematical accuracy of the discounted cash ow models.
31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year We evaluated the sensitivity of the outcomes by considering then ended: downside scenarios against reasonably plausible changes to the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in key assumptions.
Finally, we rationalised the difference between accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as market capitalisation and the net asset value, having regard to adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : analyst valuations, which are typically also based on net present values, and market commentary and we evaluated the the Parent Company financial statements have been properly appropriateness of the relevant disclosure.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Our findings We found that the Group had assessed and Act 2006: and recorded impairments based on a balanced set of assumptions.
We found that the difference between the market capitalisation the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with and the Groups net assets could be largely explained by market the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards valuations generally attributing a negative value to the Groups the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
existing copper business in Kazakhstan.
In particular, the carrying 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement value of the relevant assets in the Zhezkazgan Region which has In arriving at our opinions above on the financial statements, the been written down to nil the lowest it can be under accounting risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our standards even though the discounted cash ow results in a audit, and the key procedures to address them, were as set out significant negative outcome.
We found that the disclosure below.
Those procedures were designed in the context of the appropriately describes the inherent degree of judgement financial statements as a whole and, consequently, where we set involved and the potential impact on future periods of out findings we do not express any opinion on these individual risks.
amendments to the key assumptions.
Impairment of assets Disclosure relating to going concern Refer to page 112 note 4 significant accounting judgements Refer to page 103 note 2 Basis of preparation and key sources of estimation uncertainty Impairment of assets, a Going concern and page 71 Audit Committee report pages 124 and 125 note 8 Impairment losses and page 70 The risk The Groups cash ow projections over the near-term Audit Committee report are characterised by capital expenditure on its major development The risk The Group has recorded significant impairments during projects exceeding operating cash inows.
The Group is therefore the year.
Despite this, at 31 December 2013 the Groups net dependent on its existing cash resources and available borrowing asset value exceeded its market capitalisation by $2.3 billion, facilities to fund this expenditure until the first of these projects, which might imply that there are additional impairments that Bozshakol, delivers positive cash ow.
The financial statements have not been recognised.
explain how the Directors have formed a judgement that the going concern basis is appropriate in preparing the financial statements of the Group.
The Directors have concluded that the range of possible outcomes they have considered in arriving at this judgement is not sufficient to give rise to a material uncertainty regarding the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
As this assessment involves consideration of future events, there is a risk that the judgement is inappropriate and the uncertainty should have been assessed as material, in which case additional disclosures would have been required.
94 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial St Financial Stat atements ements Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, specialists to assist in the design of our procedures and we challenging the appropriateness of key assumptions in the cash remained alert to indications of the existence of bribery and ow projections including commodity prices, production costs, corruption throughout our performance of other audit procedures.
ination, foreign exchange, production volume, committed Our findings We did not identify any instances of improper capital expenditure and the availability of borrowing facilities payments from our audit procedures, including from enquiries based on historical production information, together with of senior operational management and executive management market and other externally available information.
We also and where we found individual transactions that appeared assessed the projected timing of the receipt of the $1.25 billon unusual we were satisfied that upon analysis these were not proceeds of the sale of its interest in Ekibastuz GRES-1.
indicative of bribery or corruption.
On this basis, no improper We tested the mathematical accuracy of the projections.
payments that require disclosure have come to our attention.
We evaluated the sensitivity of the projected available cash Disability benets by considering downside scenarios against reasonably plausible Refer to page 113 note 4 significant accounting judgements and changes to the key assumptions.
We evaluated the potential key sources of estimation uncertainty employee benets and impact of the mitigating actions management believe are available pages 140 and 141 note 31 Employee benets and page 71 to them in the event that available cash is lower than projected Audit Committee report considering, amongst others, the actions undertaken by management during the last global economic downturn.
The risk The Group has a number of employees and former We considered the appropriateness of the relevant disclosure.
employees who have suffered workplace injuries and are eligible to receive disability payments from the Group compensating the Our findings We found both the use of the going concern basis employees for their inability to work, the disability they have of accounting and the conclusion that there is not a material suffered and to pay for certain medical expenses.
The disability uncertainty about the Groups ability to continue as a going payments can be for a predened term or for life, depending on concern to be supported by the evidence available.
We found severity and are often linked to the rate of salary increases in the the disclosure on the use of the going concern basis of accounting business.
The provision is established on an actuarial basis with in note 2 to the financial statements to be appropriate and that key assumptions being interpretation of the relevant legislation it included a balanced description of the circumstances which in Kazakhstan, discount rate, mortality rates and future salary could possibly lead to a need for additional nancing in the ination.
Small changes to the assumptions and estimates used to medium term.
value the future disability payment obligation can have a significant Bribery and corruption impact on the financial position and results of the Group.
Refer to pages 69 and 70 Audit Committee report Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, The risk The Groups business involves mining activities testing the controls designed and applied by the Group to in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
Transparency Internationals provide itself with assurance that the assumptions are updated Corruption Perceptions Index 2013 indicates that corruption and monitored regularly and that the final assumptions used in risks are significant in both countries.
In addition, companies in the calculation have been approved.
We evaluated the process the mining sector are inherently at higher risk from corruption undertaken by the Group to compile the employee data used due to the significant level of government regulation and their for the valuation by testing samples to assess the accuracy and procurement prole.
This could result in material losses to completeness of this data.
We challenged the key assumptions the Group and material improper payments not being used in the calculation of the future disability payment obligation, appropriately disclosed.
with input from our own actuarial specialists, including by Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, comparing key assumptions such as the discount, ination and considering the Groups policies and procedures to prevent mortality rates against externally derived data.
We assessed the the risk of corruption.
We evaluated the tone set by the Board competency and objectivity of the actuarial specialists engaged and by senior management.
We evaluated the Groups policies, by the Group to assist in valuing the future disability payment procedures and controls over the selection of suppliers and the obligation.
We considered the appropriateness of the related process over acknowledging acceptance of services equipment disclosure in note 31 to the financial statements.
We tested samples of payments made to Our findings We found the Groups judgements as to the suppliers and considered any transactions which we considered assumptions and resulting estimates and the related disclosure unusual in the context of the Groups operations.
We reviewed in notes 4 and 31 to be balanced and the calculations to have dealings with government agencies with a view to identifying been performed by suitably qualied actuarial specialists.
Where we found individual transactions that appeared to be outside the normal course of business, having enquired about these transactions from senior operational management and executive management, we sought to corroborate explanations given by investigating the nature of the transactions and evaluating the business rationale for the transactions taking account of our experience in the mining and other industries in Kazakhstan.
We discussed our findings with senior operational management, the Audit Committee and the Board and enquired as to whether they had knowledge of any improper payments.
We involved KPMGs forensic accounting 4 www.
com 95 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Tax contingencies including Excess profit Tax The audits of components located in the United Kingdom were Refer to page 113 note 4 significant accounting judgements performed by the Group audit team.
Detailed audit instructions and key sources of estimation uncertainty Income taxes, were sent to the KPMG member rms carrying out the audits pages 150 and 151 note 37 Commitments and contingencies of the reporting components in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
b Kazakhstan taxation contingencies, pages 129 to 131 These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should note 15 Income taxes and page 71 Audit Committee report be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information The risk Tax legislation in Kazakhstan continues to evolve required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group and can be open to different interpretations.
Changes to the audit team visited the Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan component teams Kazakhstan tax legislations and new interpretations of existing on six separate occasions during the year for oversight of the legislation could impact the Groups financial position and results.
planning and performance of the audits in Kazakhstan and Consequently, provisions for tax contingencies require the Kyrgyzstan, and to attend meetings with key management Group to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax personnel in Kazakhstan.
risks the outcomes of which can be less predictable than in many other jurisdictions.
The audits undertaken at the reporting components of the Group were very largely performed to local materiality levels as Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, the majority of components also prepare local statutory accounts.
seeking to understand the current status of the tax claims and The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key reviewing recent correspondence with the tax authorities to challenge the Groups view on the quantication, classication reporting components were all performed to materiality levels and disclosure of tax claims.
We challenged the judgements set by, or agreed with, the Group audit team.
These materiality inherent in the classication of tax claims made by the Group levels were set individually for each component and ranged from and the basis of accounting for provisions or refunds based on $1.5 million to $25 million.
our knowledge of the Kazakhstan tax legislation.
We involved 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the our tax specialists in Kazakhstan and the UK to assist the Group Companies Act 2006 is unmodied audit team in making this assessment.
We considered the In our opinion: adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Our findings We found the Groups judgements as to the Act 2006: and amounts recognised as provisions at 31 December 2013 to be acceptable though somewhat cautious.
We found that the the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors disclosures in notes 4, 15 and 37 provide a balanced description Report for the financial year for which the financial statements of the current status of tax claims and risks.
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters of the scope of our audit on which we are required to report by exception The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you was set at $31 million.
This has been determined with reference if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we to a benchmark of revenue which we consider to be one of the have identied other information in the 2013 Annual Report and principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing Accounts that contains a material inconsistency with either that the financial performance of the Group and to be a more stable knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of benchmark year on year compared to a profit benchmark.
The fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required materiality of $31 million represents 1% of the chosen benchmark.
to report to you if: We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it the following we have identied material inconsistencies between the misstatements that we identied through our audit: i all material knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors corrected misstatements over $31 million, ii uncorrected statement that they consider that the 2013 Annual Report misstatements with a value in excess of $2 million for income and Accounts and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, statement items or $4 million for balance sheet reclassications balanced and understandable and provides the information and iii other misstatements below those thresholds that we necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
business model and strategy: or Audits for Group reporting purposes were carried out at six the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address reporting components located in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
of which one represents an individually significant reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report component and eight reporting components in the United to you if, in our opinion: Kingdom of which one represents an individually significant reporting component.
Audits for Group reporting purposes adequate accounting records have not been kept by the covered 98% of revenue from continuing operations: Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have 97% of loss before taxation: and 99% of total assets.
not been received from branches not visited by us: or 96 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial St Financial Stat atements ements the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 90, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 60 to 75 relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 91, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Jimmy Daboo Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 26 February 2014 4 www.
