Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Keller Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, among others, considering a selection of contracts with the 1.
Our opinion on financial statements is unmodified greatest impact on the Groups financial results, including those We have audited the financial statements of Keller Group plc for the considered to be high risk due to such factors as known issues year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated on the contract or the nature of work being undertaken.
For Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive contracts in progress at the balance sheet date, we challenged Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the the Groups assumptions on costs to complete the contract Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated through: agreeing cost estimates to sub-contracts: the Groups Cash Flow Statement and related notes.
In our opinion: historical experience of costs on similar contracts: and industry the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state norms.
For contracts completed by the year end, we confirmed of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at subsequent settlement of revenue recognised.
In respect of 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year claims and variations raised against customers and those then ended: claims raised against the Group by customers or third parties, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in on a selection of contracts we: discussed the progress on the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as claims with the Group and corroborated explanations provided: adopted by the European Union: considered prior experience on settlement of claims and the parent company financial statements have been properly variations: inspected correspondence with the counterparty prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and and with the Groups legal advisers or insurers, to identify the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with extent of written agreement of settlement: and confirmed the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the recoveries to after year-end settlement.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Refer to page 37 Audit Committee report, page 70 accounting In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, policy and page 74 financial statements disclosures.
the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on The risk: During the year, the Group acquired the piling our audit were as follows: operations of North American Energy Partners Inc in Canada.
Under the requirements of relevant accounting standards, the Accounting for construction contracts Group has assessed the fair value of the assets and liabilities Refer to page 37 Audit Committee report, page 69 accounting acquired in this transaction and estimated the fair value of the policy.
Due to the size of the The risk: The Groups revenue represents the value of work Canadian operation, which contributed 8% of Group turnover in done on construction contracts performed during the year on the second half of the year, and the inherent judgment involved behalf of customers.
Contract revenue and expenses are in estimating the fair value of the intangible assets, property, plant recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the and equipment, and contingent consideration, we considered contract.
The stage of completion is calculated by comparing these to be significant audit risks.
the costs incurred up to the balance sheet date with the total Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, among forecast costs at completion of the contract.
Contract others: accounting is considered to be an ongoing significant audit risk With respect to the valuation of intangible assets we to the Group as it requires a high degree of estimation and challenged the assumptions and methodologies used by the judgment of matters such as: the percentage of work Group and its external valuer to derive the fair value of the completed at the balance sheet date on longer-term contracts, intangible assets.
We were assisted by our valuation specialists the costs of the work required to complete the contract and and our procedures included discussing the approach taken the outcome of claims and variations raised against customers with the Group and their external valuer and corroborating the and claims raised against the Group by customers or third explanations provided by comparing key assumptions to: parties.
market data: underlying accounting records: past performance of the acquired business: our past experience of similar transactions: and the Groups forecasts supporting the acquisition.
We also considered the competence of the external valuer.
We have also considered the adequacy of the disclosure of the fair value of intangible assets.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 61 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Keller Group plc only Continued With respect to the valuation of property, plant and equipment We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it: all uncorrected we critically assessed the methodology used by the Group and misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess its external valuer to derive the fair value of the property, plant of 175,000: those material misstatements identified during the and equipment.
We have also considered the competence of course of the audit that were corrected by management which we the external valuer.
We were assisted by our valuation consider should be communicated to the Audit Committee in order specialists.
to assist it in fulfilling its governance responsibilities: and any other With respect to the contingent consideration our work was audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted focused on the forecast results of the acquired business which reporting on qualitative grounds.
is the basis on which the estimate of the contingent consideration has been determined.
The assumptions Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component underlying those forecasts were compared with the historical auditors at the key reporting components, including North America, trading performance of the acquired operation, results since EMEA, Asia and Australia.
Audits of one or more account balances the acquisition date, order book at year end, and the Groups or disclosures were performed by component auditors in South planned development of the business.
Specified audit procedures were performed by component auditors in Russia.
The component Goodwill auditors work covered 93% of total Group revenue: 95% of Group Refer to page 37 Audit Committee report, page 70 accounting profit before exceptional items and taxation: and 93% of total Group policy and pages 79 to 80 financial statements disclosures.
The risk: There is a risk of impairment of the Groups significant goodwill balances due to prolonged downturn or structural The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key change in the relevant construction market.
In particular there reporting components of the Group were all performed to local is increased risk on the balance of 12.1m related to Keller materiality levels, subject to a cap of 3.25m for component audits.
Limited in the UK where large infrastructure projects are As such, these local materiality levels ranged from 0.1m to 3.25m.
coming to an end, and there is less certainty as to the source of future revenue and profit.
The Group estimates recoverable Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these amount based on value in use.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, should be covered by these audits which included the relevant among others, detailed testing of the Groups impairment risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the assessment for each significant goodwill balance at year end, information required to be reported back to the group audit team.
including in particular Keller Limited in the UK.
Certain of the The group audit team attended in person the final audit meetings key inputs, specifically revenue, margin and discount rates, for each of the Groups regions, including North America, Europe, require significant estimation and judgment in their selection, Middle East and Africa, Asia and Australia.
and can have a significant impact on the derived recoverable amount.
For these key inputs we critically assessed the 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies reasonableness of the Groups assumptions by reference to Act 2006 is unmodified past performance, external data and forecasts for economic In our opinion: factors, and current order book.
We were assisted by our the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has valuation specialists in evaluating the assumptions and been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act methodologies underlying the discount rates adopted by the 2006: and Group.
We considered the sensitivity of key inputs to the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report reasonably possible changes in assumptions.
We also for the financial year for which the financial statements are assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on goodwill.
which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have of our audit identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial 4.0m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise Group profit before taxation which we consider to be one of the misleading.
principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
Materiality represents 6.7% of Group profit before tax and 4.7% of Group profit before tax and exceptional items as disclosed on the face of the income statement.
62 Keller Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the part of the Corporate Governance report dealing with the Audit Committee on pages 36 to 38 does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 57, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 30 to 60 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 60, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Andrew Marshall Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 3 March 2014 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 63
