Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 86 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF KENTZ CORPORATION LIMITED REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH OUR OPINION MATERIALITY In our opinion the Group financial statements: We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped usto determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups both individually and on the financial statements as profit and cash flows for the year then ended: awhole.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs : and Based on our professional judgement, we determined have been properly prepared in accordance with the materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. to be US$5.5 million.
This has been calculated using a benchmark of Group profit before taxation and This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in exceptional items.
We consider that this benchmark is the the remainder of this report.
most appropriate measure of recurring Group performance.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would The Group financial statements, which are prepared by report to them misstatements identified during our audit Kentz Corporation Limited, comprise: above US$0.3 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for the Consolidated statement of financial position as at qualitative reasons.
31 December 2013: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: The Group structure comprises five distinct regions the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and namely, Middle East, Far East, Africa, Australasia and Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then Americas.
The Group financial statements are a ended: and consolidation of 50 reporting units, comprising the the notes to the consolidated financial statements, Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed The financial reporting framework that has been applied at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs.
team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting performed by component auditors, we determined the framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work Report rather than in the notes to the financial at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained statements and are identified as audited.
as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES Our Group audit scope focused on 12 reporting entities We conducted our audit in accordance with International with significant operations based in Middle East, Far East, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Africa, Australasia, Americas and Europe, all of which Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the were subject to an audit of their complete financial amounts and disclosures in the financial statements information.
In aggregate these operations accounted for sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial approximately 93% of Group Revenue and approximately statements are free from material misstatement, whether 90% of Group Profit Before Taxation and Exceptional caused by fraud or error.
This together with the additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we This includes an assessment of: needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently AREAS OF PARTICULAR AUDIT FOCUS applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made made by the Directors: and a number of subjective judgements, for example in the overall presentation of the financial statements.
respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work information in the Annual Report to identify material in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements inconsistencies with the audited Group financial against available evidence, forming our own judgements, statements and to identify any information that is and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the In our audit, we tested and examined information, using course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for we consider the implications for our report.
Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 87 us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 63 and 64.
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA AREA OF FOCUS OFFOCUS REVENUE RECOGNITION AND CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT ACCOUNTING The timing of the recognition of revenue in respect We identified key projects for testing based on size, ofconstruction contracts is calculated using the complexity, risk, profit contribution, cash position and percentage of completion method.
This requires the balance sheet exposure.
estimation of costs yet to be incurred in the final completion of contracts, the assessment of probability We assessed and tested the monitoring controls that that unapproved variation orders and claims will be theGroup perform including regular reviews performed approved and the estimation of the amount of revenue by the Management Executive Committee and Risk that will be received therefrom.
The Group provides for future losses on construction We performed an assessment of the historical level of contracts when it is considered probable that the accuracy and prudence in end of life forecasting and contract costs are likely to exceed revenues in future challenged managements current assumptions in years.
The estimation of these future losses involves a respect of contract end of life assessments.
number of complex judgements in respect of contract performance including the assessment of potential We challenged managements assumptions over the liquidated damages and the estimation of costs likelihood of settlement of unapproved contract tocompletion.
variations and claims in particular in respect of the Medupi contract by considering the probability that the We focused on this area because it involves significant customer will accept the claims and variations that have judgements by the Directors including in particular, the been recognised by reference to correspondence in assessment of the likely settlement by the relevant relation to specific claims and relevant settlement history.
customer of unapproved variation orders and claims inrespect of the Medupi contract.
We challenged managements assumptions in respect oftotal estimated revenues and costs for loss making In addition, ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk contracts by reviewing historical performance to date offraud in revenue recognition because the pressure ofthese contracts and assessing the current status of management may feel to achieve the planned results.
We tested the timing of revenue recognition in accordance with the percentage of completion method.
We have also tested revenue and contract accounting journal entries focusing on unusual or irregular items.
BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT CHARGE During the year, there was a change in respect of the We have considered the accounting requirements Groups Black Economic Empowerment BEE partner ofIFRS 2 and the report prepared by the Groups inthe South African operations to comply with local advisors in respect of the estimated fair value of the BEE requirements.
Kentz entered into an agreement whereby shareholding which were based on estimated cash flows a new BEE partner subscribed for 30% of the issued for Kentz Pty Limited.
share capital of Kentz Pty Limited for a nominal subscription price.
We challenged managements key assumptions for future projected cash flows and growth rates in the forecasts by In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment, the considering Kentz Pty Limiteds historic growth rates Group has recorded a non-recurring charge of US$2.3m in and its achievement of past strategic objectives.
the year representing the difference between the fair value of the BEE shareholding and the consideration received.
We focused on this area because of the level of judgement required in estimating the fair value of the BEE shareholding used in the calculation of the charge.
Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 88 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF KENTZ CORPORATION LIMITED CONTINUED HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA AREA OF FOCUS OFFOCUS PENSION LIABILITIES The magnitude of the deficits on the Groups defined We challenged the reasonableness of the actuarial benefit pension schemes included on the balance sheet assumptions used by management, by holding dialogue is dependent on a number of key assumptions such as with our in-house actuaries and comparing the the discount rate at year end and mortality rates.
A assumptions to third party benchmark data.
modest change in such assumptions can result in a material change in the value of the overall deficit.
RISK OF MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF INTERNAL CONTROLS ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We assessed the Groups anti-fraud programmes and controls and interviewed senior management, the Groups Risk Officer and the Head of the Groups Internal Audit function.
For each full scope audit reporting unit an analysis of manual journals was obtained which was assessed for completeness.
We tested certain of these manual journal entries, including consolidation journals.
We also assessed the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
GOING CONCERN As noted in the Directors statement, set out on pages 84 to 85, in relation to going concern, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS In our opinion: the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements: the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement in the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Group.
OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ADEQUACY OF INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 89 On page 62 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On pages 63 and 64, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in ouropinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Martin Freyne for and on behalf of  Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors Dublin 21 March 2014 Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 90 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 2013 2012 Before Exceptional Restated In thousands of USD Note exceptional note 6 Total total Revenue 1,657,472 1,657,472 1,563,269 Cost of sales 1,437,281 1,437,281 1,352,011 Gross Profit 220,191 220,191 211,258 Selling, general and administration expenses 106,281 8,288 114,569 108,216 Other operating income 1,123 1,123 1,494 Operating Profit 4, 5 115,033 8,288 106,745 104,536 Finance income 8 3,966 3,966 1,836 Finance costs 8 1,365 1,365 1,684 Share of joint ventures profit 15 371 371 72 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 118,005 8,288 109,717 104,760 Tax expense 9 35,051 35,051 25,631 Profit for the year 82,954 8,288 74,666 79,129 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 81,976 8,288 73,688 69,723 Non-controlling interests 21 978 978 9,406 Profit for the year 82,954 8,288 74,666 79,129 Earnings per share US$ cents Basic 11 62.57 60.03 Diluted 11 61.19 58.05 The attached notes 1 to 35 form part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
On behalf of the Board Christian Brown Ed Power Director Director
