Business review Governance Accounts 99 ACCOUNTS Independent auditors report to the members of Kingfisher plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Kingfisher Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies plc for the year ended 2 February 2013 which comprise the Act 2006 Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of In our opinion: comprehensive income, the Consolidated statement of changes the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in equity, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated has been properly prepared in accordance with the cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 36.
The financial Companies Act 2006: and reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting the information given in the Directors report for the financial Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Matters on which we are required to report by exception Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken We have nothing to report in respect of the following: so that we might state to the Companys members those matters Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for you if, in our opinion: no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
we have not received all the information and explanations Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor we require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that the Directors statement, contained within the Directors they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit responsibilities statement in relation to going concern: and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to accordance with applicable law and International Standards the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Other matter and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Kingfisher plc for the year ended 2 February 2013. reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and Panos Kakoullis Senior Statutory Auditor have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonLondon, United Kingdom financial information in the annual report to identify material 25 March 2013 inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 2 February 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
