Business review Governance Accounts 113 ACCOUNTS Independent Auditors report to the members of Kingfisher plc We have audited the Company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Kingfisher plc for the year ended 2 February 2013 which Act 2006 comprise the Company balance sheet and the related notes In our opinion the information given in the Directors report 1 to 15.
The financial reporting framework that has been for the financial year for which the financial statements are applied in their preparation is applicable law and United prepared is consistent with the Company financial statements.
Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Matters on which we are required to report by exception Accepted Accounting Practice.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters This report is made solely to the Companys members, where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so adequate accounting records have not been kept by the that we might state to the Companys members those matters Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for received from branches not visited by us: or no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the the Company financial statements and the part of the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities law are not made: or statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of we have not received all the information and explanations we the Company financial statements and for being satisfied that require for our audit.
they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Company financial statements in Other matter accordance with applicable law and International Standards We have reported separately on the Group financial statements on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to of Kingfisher plc for the year ended 2 February 2013 and on comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards the information in the Directors remuneration report that is for Auditors.
described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Panos Kakoullis and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Senior Statutory Auditor reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting London, United Kingdom policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the 25 March 2013 reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 2 February 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. www.
