Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 99 99 Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes plc on the consolidated financial statements We have audited the Group financial statements of Ladbrokes plc for the Our application of materiality year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in financial statements.
For the purposes of determining whether the Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes financial statements are free from material misstatement we define 1 to 33.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the financial statements, would be changed or influenced.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in We also determine a level of performance materiality which we use to accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, financial statements as a whole.
We determined planning materiality for or for the opinions we have formed.
the Group to be 6.0 million 2012: 9.0 million, which is approximately 5% Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 2012: 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items, and below 2% 2012: As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set 2% of equity.
We used profit before tax and exceptional items to exclude out on page 98, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the the impact of exceptional items which do not reflect the underlying Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and performance of the Group.
This provided a basis for determining the fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to timing and extent of further audit procedures.
comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Scope of the audit of the financial statements Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that overall An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in performance materiality for the Group should be 50% 2012: 50% of the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the planning materiality, namely 3.0 million 2012: 4.5 million.
Our objective financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused in adopting this approach was to ensure that total detected and undetected by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting audit differences did not exceed our planning materiality of 6.0 million for policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been the financial statements as a whole.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Committee all adjusted and unadjusted audit differences in excess of presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the 0.3 million 2012: 0.45 million that related to our specific testing of the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts various balances.
We also agreed to report differences below those to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements thresholds that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the An overview of the scope of our audit course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications Group financial statements, we selected four components which represent for our report.
the principal business units within the Groups five reportable segments and account for 86% 2012: 87% of the Groups revenue, 77% 2012: 91% Opinion on financial statements of the Groups profit before tax and 95% 2012: 90% of the Groups total In our opinion the Group financial statements: assets.
Three of these components were subject to a full audit, whilst the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at remaining one was subject to a specific scope audit where the extent of 31 December 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: audit work was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups business operations at have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by that location.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for the European Union: and undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
For the remaining components, we performed other have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the procedures to confirm there were no significant risks of material Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
misstatement in the Group financial statements.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The audit work at the four locations and the statutory audits were executed We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on the at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were much overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing lower than Group materiality.
All audit work at the four locations was the efforts of the engagement team: performed by the Group audit team, including at the Groups locations in The accounting for business combinations, including the new Gibraltar and Ireland.
agreements with Playtech and the acquisitions of Betdaq and Our response to the risks identified above was as follows: Ladbrokes Australia: In respect of the accounting for business combinations, we read the sale The accounting for the Groups uncertain tax positions and the and purchase agreements and other relevant documentation to recognition and disclosure of deferred tax: understand the substance of each transaction, met with managements The impairment review of the Groups goodwill, intangible assets and external valuation experts to understand the valuation approach and property, plant and equipment: and challenged whether the accounting and disclosure was in line with the accounting requirements.
The risk of fraud in revenue recognition and from management override of financial controls.
100 100 Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes plc on the consolidated financial statements continued In particular, we challenged the inputs and assumptions to the fair Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: value estimates of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including the directors statement, set out on page 39, in relation to going concern: separately identified intangible assets, as well as the contingent and consideration at the acquisition date and subsequently at 31 December 2013. the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate In respect of the accounting for the Groups uncertain tax positions and Governance Code specified for our review.
the recognition and disclosure of deferred tax, with support from our relevant tax specialists we understood and challenged the legal basis for Other matter each uncertain tax position to assess whether the Groups accounting We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements position was appropriate.
We also reviewed the Groups correspondence of Ladbrokes plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the with the relevant tax authorities on each position to corroborate the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as accounting positions.
We also reviewed and challenged the inputs and assumptions used by the Group in the recognition and disclosure of deferred tax assets, particularly in respect of carried forward losses.
In respect of the impairment review of the Groups goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, our audit work focused on the key inputs and assumptions to the value in use calculations.
These R W Wilson Senior statutory auditor included a challenge of the historical accuracy of managements forecasts and corroboration of the discount rate and long-term growth for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor rate, as well as applying a sensitivity analysis to assess the impact of London changes in these key assumptions.
24 February 2014 We carried out testing relating to controls over revenue recognition for each of the Groups principal revenue streams, being UK Retail, Digital and High Rollers.
We also performed substantive testing and analytical procedures to validate that the revenue recognition procedures adopted complied with IFRS.
We performed analytical procedures and journal entry testing in order to identify and test the risk of fraud arising from management override of controls, which focused on the risks disclosed above.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report and Accounts is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report and Accounts appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
