Independent auditors report to the members of Laird PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Group income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group statement of financial position, the Group cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 88, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Group financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Group financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report 2013 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team: revenue recognition across the Groups global operations including the risk of management override: tax transfer pricing exposure relating to the Groups key operational locations: the assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets: and the classification of exceptional items Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the Group financial statements.
For the purposes of determining whether the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement we define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the Group financial statements, would be changed or influenced.
We also determine a level of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 89 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p89-156 v6.
indd 89 07 03 2014 19:37 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Laird PLC When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.3m, which is approximately 5% 2012, 5% of adjusted profit before tax, and below 1% 2012, 1% of equity.
We used adjusted pre-tax profits excluding exceptional costs.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that overall performance materiality for the Group should be 75% of materiality, namely 1.7m.
Our objective in adopting this approach is to ensure that total detected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our materiality of 2.3m for the financial statements as whole.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all adjusted and unadjusted audit differences in excess of 115,000 2012, 120,000.
We also agreed to report differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we selected 16 components which represent the principal business units within the Groups two reportable segments and account for 75% 83% of the Groups revenue and 68% 68% of the Groups profit before tax.
Five of these components were subject to a full audit, eight were subject to audits of specific account balances and three were subject to review procedures.
For the remaining components, we performed other procedures to confirm there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
The audit work at the components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which was lower than Group materiality.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each of the five full scope locations at least once a year.
This year, the Group audit team visited all five of the full scope locations in the USA, Czech Republic and China.
For all full scope entities in addition to the location visit, the Group audit team reviewed key working papers and participated in the component teams planning including the component teams discussion of fraud and error.
Our response to the risks of material misstatement included the following procedures: we performed testing around the timing of revenue recognition, reviewed a sample of new sales agreements to understand the contractual terms and checked these were reported appropriately, as well as assessing whether the revenue recognition policies adopted complied with IFRS.
We performed analytical procedures and journal entry testing in order to identify and test the risk of fraud arising from management override of controls: we challenged the status of the Groups applications for transfer pricing agreements between its key locations and the accounting implications for the financial statements, as well as assessing the tax disclosures for compliance with IFRS: we challenged managements assumptions used in the impairment model for goodwill and intangible assets, including specifically the growth rates, discount rates, perpetuity rates, cash flow projections and sensitivities used: and we assessed the Groups material exceptional items to check that these items met the definition of exceptional as specified by IFRS, as well as reviewing the related exceptional items disclosures.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
90 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p89-156 v7.
indd 90 11 03 2014 18:08 Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: returns adequate for our audit have not been received from sites not visited by us, or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and return, or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 66, in relation to going concern: and the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Eamonn McGrath Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 27 February 2014 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 91 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p89-156 v6.
