102 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Opinion on financial statements We have audited the financial statements of Lonmin Plc for the year ended 30 September 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Company Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2013 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the group financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Impairment of non financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax The risk: The PGM industry has experienced rising costs, and subdued demand resulting in a depressed pricing environment.
Other producers in the industry have closed unprofitable shafts, and have recognised impairments against assets.
The Companys market capitalisation remains below the share of net assets attributable to shareholders of the Company.
The Akanani asset was impaired in 2012, and any change in assumptions could lead to further impairment, or reversal of impairment.
As such there is a risk that the groups assets need to be impaired, or in the case of Akanani, impairment may need to be reversed.
As described in the Report from the Audit & Risk Committee on page 60, consideration of impairment is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
Our response: As detailed in the statement on accounting policies in Note 1 of the accounts, the groups two key Cash Generating Units CGUs are Marikana and Akanani.
Our audit procedures included, among others, detailed testing of the Directors impairment assessment for each CGU performed at year end.
We obtained the discounted cash flow models, which are detailed and complex, and performed procedures over the accuracy of calculation of the Net Present Value NPV derived by each model.
We agreed key inputs in the models to internally and externally derived sources.
Certain of the key inputs, specifically mineral resource, discount rate, PGM prices, capital and operating costs, inflation, exchange rates, and sales terms, require significant estimation and judgement in their selection, and can have a significant impact on the derived NPV.
For these key inputs we critically assessed the reasonableness of the Directors assumptions by reference to external data and forecasts, along with reports from the groups external consultants.
We utilised our own valuation specialists and engineers to the extent necessary in performing our work.
We considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures see Notes 1, 10 and 11 in respect of impairment testing, and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuations.
Recoverability of the $399 million HDSA receivable The risk: As set out in note 14 of the accounts, the group has an amount due to it from a subsidiary of Shanduka Resources Proprietary Limited the Shanduka subsidiary amounting to $399 million at 30 September 2013.
The amount due is secured by shares in the Shanduka subsidiary, whose only asset of value is its ultimate shareholding in Incwala Resources Pty Limited Incwala.
The majority of the amount due was provided to the Shanduka subsidiary in 2010 so that it could acquire 50.03% of Incwala, which has interests in the groups subsidiaries, and provides the group with its Black Economic Empowerment credits.
Due to a decline in the performance and outlook of the PGM industry, subsidiaries of the group have not been paying the quantum of dividends that were expected when the financing was first put in place, which was to be one source of income from which the Shanduka subsidiary could make repayments of the amounts due by 2015.
The value of the collateral has also fallen significantly in recent times.
Given the above factors, there is a risk that the Shanduka subsidiary may not repay the amount when it falls due in 2015.
This risk is further highlighted in the Report from the Audit & Risk Committee on page 60.
Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, among others, discussions with representatives from the Shanduka subsidiary to understand their intentions with regards to repayment of the amounts due, and consideration of correspondence between the group and the Shanduka subsidiary.
We have critically assessed the value of the collateral of $403 million at 30 September 2013, which is determined based on the underlying values of the assets held by Incwala, less the consolidated net liabilities of Incwala.
Given those assets include Marikana and Akanani, we have made use of the audit work we performed on impairment of those CGUs above.
We also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures see Notes 1 and 21a with regards to impairment testing for financial assets, and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the value of the collateral to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuations.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued Physical quantities of inventory excluding consumables The risk: As detailed in the Use of estimates and judgements section in note 1 of the accounts, metal inventory is held in a wide variety of forms across the mining and refinement processes, and prior to production as a final metal, is always contained in a carrier material.
It is not possible to determine the exact metal content contained in a carrier material until the refinement process is complete.
As such physical quantities of metal inventory are determined by sampling, and assays are taken to determine the metal content and how this is split by type of metal.
The accuracy of these samples and assays can vary quite significantly, and as such the quantum of metal inventory requires a significant amount of estimation and management judgement in its determination.
As described in the Report from the Audit & Risk Committee on page 61, determination of inventory quantities is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit concentrated on, as quantities measured are a key determining factor in the carrying amount of inventory recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at year end.
Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, among others, attendance at year end physical stock counts, where the group engaged independent metallurgists to assist with the assessment of sampling methodologies used and the adherence to appropriate stock count processes.
We considered the competence of the metallurgists, the results of their report, and sought to understand and corroborate the reasons for significant or unusual movements in inventory quantities between the accounting records and the results of the sampling and assays performed as part of the year end physical stock counts.
We also considered the reasonableness of the downward adjustment to stock quantities that are not yet in a final refined state to recognise the estimation uncertainty inherent in the sampling and assays and the fact that not all of the material will eventually be recovered as refined metal.
We assessed this by reference to historical experience of the Company and across the industry.
We also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures see Note 1 about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the measured inventory.
Net realisable value of inventory excluding consumables The risk: As detailed in the Inventories section in note 1 of the accounts, inventory is carried in the financial statements at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The PGM industry has experienced rising costs, and subdued demand resulting in a depressed pricing environment.
Fluctuations in production efficiency also have the potential to affect the carrying amount of inventory.
As such there is a risk that the cost of inventory exceeds its net realisable value.
This risk is further highlighted in the Report from the Audit & Risk Committee on page 61.
Our response: We have obtained net realisable value calculations, agreed stock quantities in those calculations to the accounting records, and tested prices by reference to externally available data in the market.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit In establishing the overall audit strategy, and performing the audit, materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at $21 million.
This has been calculated with reference to a benchmark of group revenue, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the group, and is a less volatile benchmark than profit.
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of $1.0 million, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Whilst Lonmin Plc is a UK company, all of the groups significant operations are located in South Africa.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed by component auditors in South Africa over six reporting components.
The group audit team performed audits over four components, including Lonmin Plc as a standalone entity, along with the audit of the group, including consolidation-type adjustments.
Reviews for group reporting purposes were performed by component auditors in South Africa over six other reporting components.
The combined effect of this approach covered 100% of group revenue, more than 95% of group profit before tax, and more than 95% of group assets.
The audits were performed to the local materiality levels set individually for each component and agreed with the group team, unless this exceeded materiality for the group financial statements as a whole, in which case the materiality level was set at 95% of materiality for the group financial statements as a whole.
As such materiality for these audits ranged from $0.1 million to $20 million.
The reviews were performed on a materiality level of $20 million.
Detailed instructions were sent to component auditors, which covered the significant areas that should be covered by the audit and review engagements which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported to the group audit team.
The group audit team was physically present in South Africa for the duration of the substantive testing phase of the South African audit and review engagements.
In doing so the group audit team was actively involved in the direction of the audits and review engagements performed by the component auditors for group reporting purposes, along with the consideration of findings and determination of conclusions drawn.
com 104 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Report from the Audit & Risk Committee on pages 57 to 64 does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 68, in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement in the Directors Report Governance relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Robert Seale Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 10 November 2013
