FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANGLO AMERICAN PLC The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of Opinion on financial statements of Anglo American plc the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the In our opinion: European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Groups profit for the year then ended: Accepted Accounting Practice.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the Going concern European Union: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement onpage 150 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or conditions accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going and concern which we believe would need to be disclosed in accordance with the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated statement of thisstatement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as changes in equity, the accounting policies, the related notes 1 to 41 and the agoing concern.
balance sheet of the Company and related information.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairments Assessment of the recoverable amount of operating We challenged managements assessment as to whether indicators of impairment exist for specific assets and development projects, including assets, specifically, in relation to the Minas-Rio and Barro Alto projects.
Where such indicators were specifically the Minas-Rio project within the Iron Ore identified we obtained copies of the valuation models used to determine the value in use or fair value Brazil business unit and the Barro Alto project within less costs of disposal of the relevant asset.
We challenged the assumptions made by management in the Nickel business unit.
relation to these models, including the discount rate used, the commodity price, capital expenditure and operating cost forecasts and the expected production profiles, by reference to third party documentation where available and consultation with operational management.
We ensured that assumptions had been determined and applied on a consistent basis across the Group.
Platinum portfolio review Assessment of the accounting impact arising from the We assessed the status and recoverability of all Anglo American Platinum operating assets and finalisation of the portfolio review carried out by Anglo projects in the context of the results of the portfolio review, and analysed managements estimates American Platinum and the related impairments and for restructuring costs, giving particular consideration to the timing of key decisions made by provisions recorded within the financial statements.
management and hence the timing of the recognition of any provisions.
Amap disposal Assessment of the loss on disposal of Amap, taking We audited the disposal calculations in respect of the sale to Zamin Ferrous Limited with a particular into account the fair value of consideration received focus on challenging the fair value of the insurance claim asset acquired through consultation with and the insurance claims, including those relating to the Groups external legal advisors and review of the related agreements and expert insurance the port incident in March 2013, which were acquired reports, as well as the valuation of the deferred consideration receivable which is linked to future bythe Group as part of the salesagreement.
Taxation Assessment of the Groups taxation exposures in all We reviewed all significant potential taxation exposures within the Group and, through discussions jurisdictions, including transfer pricing arrangements with the Groups taxation department, the tax specialists within the audit team and review of relevant and recognition of deferred taxation assets documentation, we assessed the appropriateness of the provisions raised.
We considered, in the context of our tax specialists prior experience of similar issues, the Groups transfer pricing arrangements and deferred taxation assets and liabilities recognised, to confirm that they were reasonable.
Special items and remeasurements Assessment of the appropriateness of items We considered each item accounted for within Special items and remeasurements as defined in accounted for within Special items and note 6 to the financial statements.
We determined, through examination of the audit evidence remeasurements.
obtained relating to the underlying transactions and discussion with management, whether such categorisation is appropriate and consistent with the Groups stated policy and past practice for recognition of such items, and whether, taken as a whole, the income statement is fair and balanced in its presentation.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 115.
152 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Our application of materiality Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required We determined planning materiality for the Group to be $250 million, to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: whichisapproximately 4.1% of pre-tax profit before special items and remeasurements, and below 1% of equity.
Pre-tax profit is normalised for the materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial materiality calculation to exclude impairments, remeasurements and other statements: one off items that are audited separately and would, if included, significantly apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our distort the materiality calculation year on year.
knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee otherwise misleading.
all audit differences in excess of $10 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
In particular, we are required to consider whether: we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired An overview of the scope of our audit during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual All business units were subject to a full scope audit with the exception of Report is fair, balanced and understandable: and Manganese.
The principal operation within Manganese, part of the Iron Ore and Manganese segment, is Samancor Holdings Proprietary Limited whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we Samancor, an associate of the Group, which is subject to a separate audit communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have engagement.
Wehave received a reporting pack from the Samancor auditor beendisclosed.
and have performed specific procedures on the remaining balances We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or withinManganese.
The Senior Statutory Auditor visits the principal location of each significant Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor business unit at least once every year and key operational assets on a As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the rotatingbasis.
directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with Act2006 applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been Ethical Standards for Auditors.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit forthe financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members consistent with the financial statements.
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Matters on which we are required to report by exception assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our have formed.
opinion: Scope of the audit of the financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures audit: inthe financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused orreturns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not byfraud or error.
This includes an assessment of whether the accounting visited by us: or policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the accounting records and returns.
directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report Directors remuneration toidentify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part ormaterially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with ofperforming the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material the accounting records and returns.
Under the Listing Rules we are required misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
to review certain elements of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate Governance Statement Carl D. Hughes MA, FCA Senior Statutory Auditor Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to London, United Kingdom report arising from our review.
13 February 2014 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 153
