INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MARSTONS PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Overview of our audit approach Materiality Our opinion We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to In our opinion the Group financial statements: determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and 5 October 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for on the financial statements as a whole.
the 53 week period then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 4.5 million.
European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
What we have audited Overview of the scope of our audit The Group financial statements, which are prepared by Marstons The Group is structured along four business lines, being PLC, comprise: Destination and Premium, Taverns, Leased and Brewing, together the Group Balance Sheet as at 5 October 2013: with Group Services.
The Group financial statements are a the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of consolidation of subsidiaries, principally comprising the Groups Comprehensive Income for the 53 week period then ended: operating businesses, property companies, holding companies the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and Group Cash and an insurance company.
Flow Statement for the 53 week period then ended: and the notes to the Group financial statements, which include a In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we summary of significant accounting policies and other determined the type of work that needed to be performed, and explanatory information.
each active subsidiary and business line was subject to audit.
This gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Group financial statements as a whole.
preparation comprises applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a What an audit of financial statements involves number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of We conducted our audit in accordance with International significant accounting estimates that involved making Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from the financial statements.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered circumstances and have been consistently applied and necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw adequately disclosed: conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a by the Directors: and combination of both.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We considered the following areas to be those that required In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material risks or areas of audit focus identified by our audit.
We discussed inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect those matters that they considered to be significant issues in based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired relation to the financial statements is set out on page 37. by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
56 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of properties We obtained the Directors valuation and impairment analysis and We focused on the Directors annual assessment of the carrying discussed with the Groups estates team.
We also considered any value of land and buildings because properties are a significant further market indicators including changes in macroeconomic item on the balance sheet and there are complex and subjective and consumer trends and recent transactions and the associated assumptions used in the valuations, including the future expected multiples.
We challenged the assumptions on future earnings and performance of pubs.
multiples applied by management and considered the impact of movements in key assumptions.
Disclosure of items as exceptional We assessed the appropriateness of the Groups accounting The financial statements include certain items which are disclosed policy and whether those items disclosed as exceptional were as exceptional.
consistent with the accounting policy and the approach taken in previous accounting periods.
We focused on this area because exceptional items are not defined by IFRS as adopted by the European Union and it We assessed whether other non-recurring items should have therefore requires judgement by the Directors to identify such been classified as exceptional and discussed this with the items.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as Directors and the Audit Committee to check whether items exceptional is important to maintain comparability of the results meeting the criteria in the Groups accounting policy had been with previous years.
identified and whether the treatment was consistent year on year.
Accounting for uncertain tax positions We have examined correspondence with HM Revenue & Customs The Group has a number of outstanding corporate and indirect and any legal challenges and assessed the position taken by the tax positions where recognition in the financial statements is Directors in respect of these uncertainties.
We have evaluated the judgemental given the uncertainty of settlement.
appropriateness of the recognition or non-recognition of the benefits associated with these tax positions.
We focused on this area because these matters have not yet been resolved with HM Revenue & Customs and the Directors have had to make judgements about the recognition or non-recognition of the benefits associated with the tax positions.
Fraud in revenue recognition Our procedures included testing that delivery requirements were ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue satisfied where appropriate and that revenue generated at point of recognition because of the pressure management may feel to sale was reconciled to cash receipts net of discounts achieve the planned results.
We focused in particular on the recognition of revenue within the Brewing segment.
This was We also responded to the risk that manual adjustments could identified as a risk due to the large number of deliveries and the override standard procedures to misstate revenue by auditing existence of discounts which could have a material impact on manual journals relating to revenue.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment and tested key ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
reconciliations and manual journal entries.
We considered whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors in the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 29, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, set out on page 54, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MARSTONS PLC CONTINUED Other information in the Annual Report OPINION ON MATTER PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and materially inconsistent with the information in the audited the Directors Report for the financial period for which the Group Group financial statements: or financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially financial statements.
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO is otherwise misleading.
REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of information and explanations received We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to AND THE AUDIT report arising from this responsibility.
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Directors remuneration Responsibilities set out on page 54, the Directors are responsible Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the Report to shareholders Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group by the Board on Directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs to report arising from these responsibilities.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Corporate Governance Statement On page 54 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other and provides the information necessary for members to assess purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to 37, as required by C3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: OTHER MATTER the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of We have reported separately on the parent Company financial performing our audit: or statements of Marstons PLC for the 53 week period ended the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the 5 October 2013 and on the information in the Directors Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Mark Smith Senior Statutory Auditor We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 28 November 2013 58 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
