Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MARSTONS PLC REPORT ON THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO STATEMENTS REPORT BY EXCEPTION Our opinion Adequacy of accounting records and information and In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: explanations received give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you affairs as at 5 October 2013 and of its profit for the period if, in our opinion: then ended: we have not received all the information and explanations we have been properly prepared in accordance with United require for our audit: or Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not the Companies Act 2006. been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
What we have audited The Parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Marstons PLC, comprise: the Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 5 October 2013: and Directors remuneration the notes to the Parent Company financial statements, which Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our include a summary of significant accounting policies and other opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified explanatory information.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom Other information in the Annual Report Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Under ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, Accounting Practice.
in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have Parent Company financial statements: or made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Parent Company they have made assumptions and considered future events.
acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Our responsibilities and those of the Directors financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether Responsibilities set out on page 54, the Directors are responsible caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent and adequately disclosed: Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those by the Directors: and standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with audited Parent Company financial statements and to identify any Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the implications for our report.
Other matter OPINIONS ON MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of COMPANIES ACT 2006 Marstons PLC for the period ended 5 October 2013.
In our opinion: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Mark Smith Senior Statutory Auditor Directors Report for the financial year for which the Parent for and on behalf of  LLP Company financial statements are prepared is consistent with Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the Parent Company financial statements.
Birmingham The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited 28 November 2013 has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 97
