Overview Highlights NWG at a glance Measuring Chairmans performance statement NWG at a glance Northumbrian Water Group plc Our mission is to be Northumbrian Water Group plc NWG or the Company owns a number of the national leader companies which, together with NWG, form the Group.
The largest of these in the provision of companies, Northumbrian Water Limited NWL, is one of the 10 regulated sustainable water and water and sewerage businesses in England and Wales.
The emphasis given to NWL throughout this report, reflects its importance to the overall waste water services.
Northumbrian Water Limited NWL operates in the north east of England, where it trades as Northumbrian Water, and in the south east of England, where it trades as Essex & Suffolk Water.
Northumbrian Water currently provides water and sewerage services to 2.7 million people and Essex & Suffolk Water provides water services to 1.8 million people.
NWG revenue m Water and waste water contracts NWG controls a number of special purpose companies which have water 8.6 38.3 657.8 and waste water contracts in Scotland, Ireland and Gibraltar.
Other SA Agrer NV Agrer carries out project work in developing countries through a number of overseas aid funded agencies.
NWL Water and waste water contracts Other Cautionary statement This annual report contains certain statements with respect to the future operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those forecast.
Such statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this annual report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
Nothing in this annual report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Certain regulatory performance data contained in this annual report is subject to regulatory audit.
02 Measuring Chairmans Overview Highlights NWG at a glance performance statement River Tees River Wear North east England Northumbrian Water provides water Berwick and sewerage services to 2.7 million people in the north east of England.
The major population centres of Tyneside, Wearside and Teesside are in our area but we also serve large Alnwick rural areas in Northumberland and County Durham provision of waste water services only in Hartlepool.
Kielder Morpeth Newcastle Hexham Gateshead Sunderland Derwent Head Of ce Durham Hartlepool Cow Green Darlington Middlesbrough Norwich Great Yarmouth South east England Norwich Essex & Suffolk Water provides water Great Yarmouth services to two separate supply areas.
We serve a population of 0.3 million in Lowestoft our Suffolk area, which is mainly rural with the biggest towns being Great Lowestoft SUFFOLK AREA Barsham Yarmouth and Lowestoft.
Our Essex area, which has a SUFFOLK AREA Barsham Southwold Walpole population of 1.5 million, is part rural and part urban with the main areas of Southwold population being in Chelmsford, Walpole Southend and the London Boroughs of Barking and Dagenham, Havering and Redbridge.
Aldeburgh Aldeburgh Ipswich Ipswich Colchester ESSEX AREA Abberton Colchester Clacton ESSEX AREA Abberton Langford Clacton Chelmsford Langford Hanning eld Chelmsford Hanning eld Brentwood Southend Romford Basildon Brentwood Barking Southend Romford Basildon Tilbury Barking Tilbury 03 i R ver Tyne
