02 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 pearson at a glance overview people proportion of pearson revenue education We provide learning materials, technologies, assessments and services 29,200 toteachers and students of all ages and inmore than 70 countries.
us 16,000 uK 3,600 74% roW 9,600 North America 2,640m International 1,234m Professional 333m consumer publishing Penguin publishes more than 4,000 fiction and non-fiction books each year on 3,450 paper, on screens and in audio formats for readers of all ages.
It is one of the us 1,800 worlds leading consumer publishing uK 750 businesses and an iconic global brand.
19% roW 900 Penguin 1,053m Business information The FT Group provides news, data, comment and analysis to the international 2,600 business community.
It is known around the world for its independent and us 500 authoritative information.
uK 1,600 7% roW 500 FT Group 403m IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 1 Introduction 03 Business markets education We are a leading provider of For some years, Pearson has been educational materials and learning aleader in education, with leading technologies.
Weprovide test positions in large developed markets development, processing and scoring and local publishing centres in more services to governments, educational than 30 countries.
Morerecently we institutions, corporations and have significantly accelerated our professional bodies around the world.
international expansion, investing in We publish across the curriculum and countries including China, Brazil, India provide a range of education services and SouthAfrica.
including teacher development, educational software and systemwide solutions.
See more on page 18 and at pearsoned.
com consumer publishing Penguin operates around the world Penguin combines a longstanding through a series of connected national commitment to local publishing with publishing houses.
Itpublishes under a adetermination to benefit from its number of well-known imprints including worldwide scale, a globally recognised Putnam, Viking, Allen Lane, Hamish brand and growing demand for books Hamilton, Berkley, the Penguin Press, in emerging markets.
Its largest Puffin and Dorling Kindersley.
businesses are in the US, the UK, Australia, Canada, Ireland, India and SouthAfrica.
See more on page 28 and at penguin.
com Business information The FT Group includes: the Financial The Financial Times has a network Times and FT. com, a range of ofapproximately 600 journalists in specialist financial magazines and 47countries and a unique model of online services, and Mergermarket.
producing distinctive newspaper editions for Europe, the UK, the US, The FT Group also has a stake in a Asia and the Middle East.
FT. com, number of joint ventures, including with10.6 million monthly unique users those with FTSE International, and 3.2million registered users around Vedomosti in Russia, BDFM in the world, makes the FT even more SouthAfrica and a 50% stake in widelyavailable.
See more on page 26 and at ft. com
