Business review At a glance Operations Achievements Our leased estate Code of Practice We were the first major pub company Punch Partnerships is our leased division, to publish our BII Benchmarking and Accreditation Services Ltd BIIBAS accredited comprising 5,967 pubs nationwide, ranging Code of Practice, which exceeds the BBPA industry framework.
It is now live across the business, setting the basis of our relationship from high end food outlets to traditional with our Partners.
We are committed to making this live within the business and Business Relationship Managers BRMs drink led locals.
will be bonused on compliance.
Partnership support Based on Partner feedback, we have trialled a new Partner Development Manager PDM role in the Midlands and South West.
The emphasis has been to give PDMs greater capacity to focus on quality recruitment and consultancy support to help Partners with financial planning, developing their retail Our progress offer, standards and marketing.
The last 12 months has seen significant progress Partner feedback in our three phase business change programme, We are committed to listening to our Pathway to Partnership.
Partners and have initiated new ways of gaining feedback to help us shape and evolve our business.
Over the last year, we held a Management actions have had a positive impact series of regional Partner Forums, we posted on stabilising the estate our new Code of Practice on our website inviting Partner feedback and we carried We have continued our programme of disposals out a Partner survey on BRM effectiveness to help us improve performance in the field.
and accelerated investment in our core estate Investing For Growth I4G We have overhauled our letting processes, providing Through I4G, we have invested over 20m transparency on expected earnings and flexibility to deliver over 500 small scale improvements and sparkles designed to set pubs up for success and help grow their businesses in the run up to the World Cup and Summer trading period.
Over 200 projects were completed prior to the World Cup to ensure that Partners could fully maximise the opportunity.
Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Partner training Our Partner training has focused on setting Stabilising Creating Sustainable Partners up for success from day one by aligning close BRM support and business performance the platform value development activity with Foundation for growth creation Training.
New Partners complete the Foundation Week prior to entering their new pub.
This is backed up by a visit from their BRM within the first two weeks and followed by a series of structured visits over the next five months to focus on key business needs.
com For more information visit: www.
com Leased estate 5,967 pubs First major pub Company to publish its BIIBAS accredited Code of Practice Over 800 Partner investments completed Over 5,200 Partners and their team members trained, completing 9,380 days of training, an increase of 51% A record 2,811 Partners attended our business building roadshows Our Goal: To be the most trusted and best value pub partnership business in the UK.
Roger Whiteside Managing Director, Punch Partnerships 7 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Business review Business review At a glance Operations continued Achievements Our managed estate Best for team We believe that a well motivated team will Punch Pub Company is our managed deliver consistently great guest experiences.
To further build the calibre of our team we division comprising 803 quality pubs launched our Apprenticeship programme with 81 team members now working towards a nationally recognised qualification nationwide ranging from our premium and on track for 500 next year.
We have also focused on reducing Team Player turnover and increasing the overall calibre of our food led Chef & Brewer PubCo to family pub teams, which will in turn drive a better guest experience.
friendly pubs and traditional locals.
Best for guest Towards the end of the year, we embarked on a major cultural change programme to Put the Guest at the Heart of our Business, to focus our teams on delivering great guest experiences, all day every day, which will in turn drive guest advocacy.
We launched Strong foundations our new Guest Recommends Survey giving Over the last 12 months, the management team have us regular guest feedback which helps to develop our service standards, guest offers focused on stabilising performance whilst developing and operational excellence.
a robust five year business plan, built around seven key Best for investor strategy areas: Operational, Concept, Sales and Marketing, We are focused on delivering strong sales, Estate, Cost Control, People and Process.
margins and profit growth so that we can reinvest in our teams and our pubs.
Over the last 12 months, successful pilots of new concept refurbishments have been completed and we have now commenced the rollout Cost control strategy of these concepts, including Chef & Brewer PubCo, Fayre & Square and Flaming Grill.
Estate strategy In addition, refurbishment activity across the rest of the estate means that we have Sales and marketing strategy invested in over 220 pubs during the course of the year and we expect to invest in Concept Concept Concept a similar number over the next 12 months.
strategy strategy strategy Operational Excellence Operational Excellence is now embedded Pub NeighbourCity and across the business, delivering further restaurants hood pubs urban pubs shareholder value by ensuring that our teams do the right things in the right way, with the right measures supported by business leading communications.
The implementation phase of the programme is now complete, with focus shifting to embedding cultural change and financial benefits.
com People strategy Process strategy For more information visit: www.
com Managed estate 803 pubs Strong business plan in place focused around seven strategy areas Operational Excellence programme embedded Calibre improved at all levels and in all areas Brand portfolio developed Refurbishment programme in place A motivated team create Our Circle a great experience of Success Best for Best for Team Guest Recruitment, retention, Product, service, relationships environment Operational Excellence Best for Allows us to Satisfied guests Investors reinvest in our pubs create repeat and our team Sales, margin, visits and new guests profit growth Our Goal: To become and remain the best managed pub business in the UK.
Mike Tye Managing Director, Punch Pub Company 9 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Business review
