Directors Report Business Review The business at a glance How we operate QinetiQs business model is based on providing hi-tech advice to customers and building relationships as a trusted partner.
Our customers value our technical and domain knowledge in support of professional services.
They value our independence and our integrity, and trust us to share in their mission.
Our markets We provide the following capabilities: Defence T echnical assistance and programme support T echnology offerings T est and evaluation R esearch and development Security Aerospace T raining delivery Highlights in our markets during the year Aerospace Defence Security Typhoon programme Iraqi flight-training Cyveillance The business won a 37m, three-year We continue to deliver Iraqi flight-training Cyveillance, providing proactive preventative contract during the year to support the services as part of a multi-year contract solutions for customers in the cyber Typhoon programme.
security market, was acquired during the year for an initial consideration of 26.1m.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3 What we offer QinetiQ provides services and products across international markets.
Our services business, which accounts for approximately 80% of total sales, is based on providing expertise and knowledge in national markets.
Our products business provides the platform for potential profitable growth on a global basis.
At the start of the new financial year we moved to a new structure: US Services UK Services Global Products We believe this structure will provide greater focus to leverage QinetiQs expertise, technology, customer relationships and business development skills, to enable sustainable and profitable growth over the longer-term.
Where we operate We have operations throughout the UK and North America as well as Australia, as illustrated.
Our capabilities are utilised across the world by an international range of customers who recognise QinetiQ as a trusted partner.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3
