About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Directors Remuneration report The Committee meets as often as is required but at least twice remuneration policy it has given full consideration to the Due to previous service Steve Morgan is a pensioner member of per year.
The Committee met five times during the course of the provisions of Section 1 and Schedule A of the Code.
the Redrow Staff Pension Scheme.
With the exception of Steve Morgan the Executive Directors are Executive Management also covered by fixed term permanent health insurance.
The Committee has consulted Deloitte LLP on a range of issues The Executive Directors consist of Steve Morgan who is Executive during the year.
Deloitte LLP also provides the Company with Chairman, John Tutte who became Group Managing Director on iii Benefits in kind advice on taxation matters but do not have any other connection 14 September 2009 and Barbara Richmond who was appointed These primarily relate to a fully expensed car or cash equivalent Group Finance Director on 18 January 2010 during the year.
car allowance and private medical insurance.
Lewis was made redundant on 14 September 2009 and David Executive Remuneration at a Glance Arnold resigned on 31 March 2010. iv Annual Cash bonus For the financial year ended June 2010, Executive Directors were Components of reward Elements of the Remuneration Package entitled to a bonus, payable in cash, equivalent to a maximum of The main components of the remuneration package provided to 75% of their salary subject to meeting certain performance Fixed component Basic salary an Executive Director are as follows: Current Members of the Remuneration Committee criteria.
Benefits in kind Pension & retirement i Basic salary Debbie Hewitt, Chairman pictured Performance was measured against challenging pre-determined benefits Salaries are reviewed as appropriate and at least once per annum.
Alan Jackson targets set by the Remuneration Committee.
In 2010, the targets Following his promotion to Group Managing Director on Paul Hampden Smith for potential 75% cash bonus consisted of four elements: land Variable component Cash bonuses 14 September 2009 John Tuttes salary increased by 75,000 to purchases, forward sales, profit before taxation and capital turn.
Long Term Share 375,000 per annum.
Incentive Plan LTSIP This report has been prepared in accordance with the The Executive Directors were awarded 39% of base salary for the Save as You Earn Option Barbara Richmond joined the Group on a base salary of 250,000 requirements of Schedule 8 to the Accounting Regulations under performance period which is payable in September 2010.
Scheme SAYE which was 50,000 less than her predecessor.
This reflects the the Companies Act 2006 and The Listing Rules.
The Financial Remuneration Committees change of approach to increase the Reporting Council introduced in June 2010 a new governance For the financial year ending June 2011, Executive Directors are emphasis on variable pay.
code entitled The UK Corporate Governance Code the New entitled to a bonus, payable in cash, equivalent to a maximum of Remuneration Policy Code which replaces the Combined Code published in June 75% of their salary, subject to meeting certain performance The Committee aims to ensure that the Group provides As a result of Steve Morgan taking on full responsibility as 2008 the Code.
The New Code applies to accounting periods criteria.
competitive but cost effective remuneration packages at all levels Executive Chairman the Remuneration Committee reviewed the beginning on or after 29 June 2010, this report, unless specifically in order to reward, retain and motivate staff who are expected to level of notional fees being paid to him.
The Committee sought stated, refers to the Code, and describes how the Board has Performance will be measured against four elements: land meet high levels of performance as well as ensuring our advice from Deloitte LLP and benchmarked comparative fees and applied the principles relating to Directors remuneration in the purchases, forward sales, profit before tax and return on capital.
remuneration is competitive in the market in which we operate agreed to increase these from 322,000 to 425,000 see page Code.
As required by the Companies Act 2006, a resolution to and attracts a high calibre of employee.
40 i. approve this report will be put to Shareholders for approval at the v Long Term Incentives Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 November 2010.
LTSIP 2006 vesting The Remuneration Committee recognises the importance of In the light of prevailing economic conditions, no increase in During the year an element of the Total Shareholder Return aligning shareholders and employee interests to create prevailing salary levels for Executive Directors is proposed for the Remuneration Committee performance condition under the 2006 LTSIP was achieved and as shareholder value.
In addition to their remuneration package, all year ending June 2011.
The Remuneration Committee is comprised solely of a result John Tutte, and Colin Lewis exercised options over 4,773 employees are entitled to participate in the Save As You Earn Non-Executive Directors.
From 19 August 2009, the shares and David Arnold exercised options over 4,222 options.
SAYE scheme under which employees are granted options and ii Pension and retirement benefits Remuneration Committee comprised Debbie Hewitt as Chairman, The remaining shares under the 2006 LTSIP lapsed.
encouraged to save in order to invest in Company shares.
Group Managing Director John Tutte is a member of the defined Alan Jackson and Paul Hampden Smith.
Details of Committee benefit section of the Redrow Staff Pension Scheme.
The Scheme attendance has been set out on page 30.
LTSIP 2007 vesting in September 2010 Consistent with this policy, the remuneration packages awarded is a contributory scheme which provides a pension, lump sum In accordance with the performance conditions attached to the to the Company's Directors are intended to reward Directors for death in service benefit and dependent's pension.
The Committee has agreed terms of reference detailing its 2007 LTSIP grant, the performance conditions were not achieved their current achievements whilst also encouraging a focus on the authority and responsibilities.
The terms of reference of the and, the Committee confirmed that all of the 2007 LTSIP options medium and long term strategy and performance of the Pensionable earnings have historically been calculated on base Committee are kept under regular review and are published on will lapse on 19 September 2010.
Remuneration packages are designed to ensure that salary only.
From 1 July 2009, pensionable earnings are calculated the Groups website.
These include: the interests of Shareholders and the Group's Senior on a shadow salary where increases in the shadow salary are LTSIP 2009 grant Management are aligned and incorporate an appropriate level of restricted to the lower of increases in base salary, inflation and determining and agreeing with the Board the framework for Group Managing Director John Tutte was awarded a grant of nil performance related remuneration with important operational 2.5%.
Executive Director Member contributions are 8.3% of the Remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Directors cost options under the LTSIP with a value equivalent to 100% of and strategic elements.
A significant proportion of remuneration shadow salary, and Company contributions 12.3% of shadow and the Company Secretary and determining within this his base salary as at 1 July 2008. is expected to be performance related based upon fair but salary with pension entitlement for an Executive Director framework the total individual remuneration package of each challenging quantitative and qualitative targets which are Member accruing at the rate of 1 45th for each year of service.
Executive Director including the Chairman and the Company The options will vest three years from the date of grant of the determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Those elements The Scheme has a normal retirement age of 65 which also applies Secretary: option, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
The which are performance related are set out in further detail below.
to the Executive Director Members.
award was based on EPS 30%, ROCE 30% and TSR 40% with determining the targets for performance related pay schemes the following performance parameters determined by the in respect of each Executive Director including the Chairman The performance related elements under each Executive Group Finance Director Barbara Richmond is not a member of the Remuneration Committee.
and the Company Secretary: Director's remuneration package have clearly defined criteria that Redrow Staff Pension Scheme and instead receives a pension link rewards to business performance in the short, medium and allowance equivalent to 20% of base salary.
monitoring the structure and level of remuneration for long term.
The Committee considers that in framing its Managing Directors or equivalent staff within the Group.
Page 36 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 37
