At a glance Supporting brand development 9 new openings 197 restaurants Frankie & Bennys brings together the best of classic American and Italian style and cuisine that always provides great value for money.
The kitchen buzzes with bustling activity as the chefs prepare dishes from our broad menu pizzas, pastas, burgers, grills and other favourites while, in typical stateside fashion, service at Frankie & Bennys is second to none!
Settle into a cosy booth to enjoy a casual family meal or a catch up with friends and observe the clatter and chatter of the open kitchen and the familiar classic 50s and 60s soundtrack playing in the background.
The restaurant walls are filled with family snapshots and memorabilia showing life on the lower east side of the Big Apple, helping you into a New York state-of-mind.
First opened in 1995 in Leicester, Frankie & Bennys has become one of the best known casual dining brands in the United Kingdom, and trades successfully in leisure and retail locations, stand-alone sites and at six airports.
The estate comprises of almost 200 restaurants spread across the country from Aberdeen to St Austell.
5 new openings 68 restaurants With almost 70 restaurants nationwide, at Chiquito we are proud to be the UKs most popular answer to Mexican eating and drinking with over 100,000 happy hombres tucking into our vibrant, tasty food every week.
The Chiquito menu offers a great range of authentic Mexican & North-of the Border dishes in a laid-back Latino environment, with fantastic music.
The dcor draws inspiration from Mexican architecture and Latin style.
Some restaurants have a rustic and relaxed feel while others demonstrate the buzz and graphic energy of contemporary Mexico City.
Chiquito favourite dishes include nachos, burritos, enchiladas and our signature sizzling fajitas, as well as the old favourites burgers, salads and steaks from the grill.
We specialise in Mexican beer and fantastic cocktails.
Chiquito is open for lunch, lazy afternoons and lively evenings, so whether youre out shopping, meeting friends after work or planning a party its the only place to be!
Trading in the UK for over 20 years, Chiquito continues to attract a broad mix of young adults, couples, teenagers, families and large parties.
2 2 new openings 23 restaurants Garfunkels a truly great name in British and world cuisine.
Founded in Londons West End in 1979, Garfunkels has become legendary!
It embraces the concept of being all things to all people.
Offering something for everyone, the menu is a fantastic mix of the best of British and international cuisine.
From the tempting rotisserie chicken to teriyaki salmon, everything has been chosen because we just love the taste.
Our salad bar has a delicious range of fresh salads, prepared dishes and dressings available all day.
Principally located across Central London, each Garfunkels restaurant offers a place to relax and take a break from the hustle and bustle outside, with a loyal following of visitors, local residents and workers who have been eating at Garfunkels for years.
Garfunkels continuing popularity means expansion is still on the menu after over 30 years of trading.
Our latest restaurant opened on Cockspur Street, Trafalgar Square in 2010, and offers the same friendly welcome and broad menu in a warm contemporary setting, just what you need after a hectic shopping trip in the West End or the perfect way to complement a theatre visit.
Continued success across all day parts including breakfast, lunch and dinner means a healthy appetite for growth with more sites earmarked to open in Central London.
02 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Pub restaurants 1 new opening 43 restaurants Really great pubs are timeless, familiar and very British.
Everybody knows what their perfect pub looks like.
Each of our pubs has its own style and personality, and youll always find a warm welcome, ageless interiors, fine British pub food, a large variety of great real ales and fine wine and great coffee.
Mostly set in beautiful rural or semi-rural locations, each pub has a local feel and many are set in intriguing buildings with fascinating histories.
We dont want all our pubs to look and feel the same instead we preserve the character of the building, which after all was what attracted us to the pub in the first place.
The range of beers available changes frequently and seasonal and local specials mean the menu also offers new choices alongside trusted favourites each time you visit.
Theres friendly, engaging service from the moment you arrive, ensuring that all your needs are taken care of.
We believe that really great pubs will never go out of fashion, and that opportunities to expand in the sector are available for experienced operators with the right offer for customers.
7 new openings 58 restaurants TRGs Concessions division has a market-leading reputation for developing partnerships to deliver catering solutions that meet the needs of our clients and their customers.
Currently operating more than 50 outlets in the UKs busiest airports, other transport locations and shopping centres, we have almost 20 years of experience providing hospitality to the travelling public.
Our specialist operating knowledge and flexibility ensures successful performance 44 across our diverse brand portfolio, covering a wide range of popular categories including table service, counter service, sandwich shops, pubs and bars.
To meet client needs we deliver existing TRG brands, create bespoke concepts or establish partnerships to franchise brands from third parties as appropriate.
Building on our track record of innovation, partnership and performance ahead of sector growth will ensure we remain a market leader in this exciting sector.
34 53 Scotland 44 South East 97 Midlands 45 22 Frankie & Bennys 36 Frankie & Bennys 34 Frankie & Bennys 45 08 Chiquito 13 Chiquito 08 Chiquito 07 Garfunkels 22 Pub restaurants 03 TRG Concessions 26 07 TRG Concessions 26 TRG Concessions North West 53 20 Northern Ireland 2 London 27 Frankie & Bennys 01 Frankie & Bennys inside the M25 44 11 Chiquito 44 01 Chiquito 12 Frankie & Bennys 07 TRG Concessions 06 Chiquito 08 Pub restaurants 21 Wales 20 15 Garfunkels 97 12 Frankie & Bennys North East 34 06 Pub restaurants 03 Chiquito 24 Frankie & Bennys 05 TRG Concessions 05 Pub restaurants 09 Chiquito East 26 01 TRG Concessions South West 21 14 Frankie & Bennys 12 Frankie & Bennys 03 Chiquito 06 Chiquito 02 Pub restaurants 01 Garfunkels 07 TRG Concessions 02 TRG Concessions The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 03
