2 The group at a glance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 The group at a glance Our group vision To be the most admired company in the global beer industry Investment of choice Employer of choice Partner of choice Our group mission To own and nurture local and international brands that are the first choice of the consumer Our group values Our people are our enduring advantage Accountability is clear and personal We work and win in teams We understand and respect our customers and consumers Our reputation is indivisible Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 The group at a glance 3 Our strategic priorities SABMiller has four clear strategic priorities: Creating a balanced and attractive global spread of businesses The wide geographic spread of our operations allows us to benefit from growth in volumes and value in beer markets around the world.
We continue to look for opportunities to strengthen our geographic footprint in both developed and developing markets through greenfield entries, alliances, mergers and acquisitions.
For more information see page 14 Developing strong, relevant brand portfolios that win in the local market We seek to develop attractive brand portfolios that meet consumers needs in each of our markets.
This includes expanding our offerings, to address new consumer segments and drinking occasions, strengthening our mainstream brands, building a differentiated portfolio of international and local premium brands and channelling the right brands to the right outlets at the right time and price.
For more information see page 16 Constantly raising the profitability of local businesses, sustainably Our aim is to keep enhancing our operational performance through top-line growth and continuous improvement in costs and productivity.
Its also important that we maintain and advance our reputation, protect our licence to trade and develop our businesses sustainably for the benefit of our stakeholders.
For more information see page 18 Leveraging our skills and global scale Our global spread presents increasing opportunities to gain value from the scale and skills of the group, not least by standardising our back-office functions around the world and regionally integrating our front-office systems.
We are also benefiting from ongoing collaboration and the sharing of skills between our businesses.
For more information see page 20 4 The group at a glance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 The group at a glance continued 1 Contribution to group EBITA 2010 SABMiller is a global operation covering % 75 countries on six continents and employing over 70,000 people.
Latin America 31% Our portfolio of businesses is divided Europe 19% into six regions and is well balanced North America 14% between developed and emerging Africa 12% markets.
Between them, our businesses Asia 2% produce over 200 different brands and South Africa 22% sell 213 million hectolitres of lager a year.
North America Latin America Europe Overview Overview Overview MillerCoors is a joint venture with Our primary brewing and Our primary brewing operations Molson Coors Brewing Company, beverage operations cover six cover 10 countries.
These are formed in 2008 by bringing countries across South and the Czech Republic, Hungary, together the US and Puerto Rico Central America.
These are Italy, Poland, Romania, Russia, operations of both companies.
Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Slovakia, Spain Canary Islands, Honduras, Panama and Peru.
It is the second-largest brewer in the USA with nearly 30% of In each of these countries we In the majority of these countries the beer market.
are the number one brewer by we are the number one or two market share.
MillerCoors is headquartered in Chicago, USA.
We bottle soft drinks for We also export significant The Coca-Cola Company in volumes to a further eight Our wholly owned Miller Brewing El Salvador and Honduras, European markets of which the International business is based in and for Pepsico International largest are the UK and Germany.
Milwaukee, USA and exports our in Panama.
Our regional office is located in brands to Canada and Mexico.
Our regional office is located Zug, Switzerland.
Key local brands in Bogot, Colombia.
Key local brands Blue Moon, Coors Banquet, Key local brands Coors Light, Fosters, Henry Arany szok, Dorada, Dreher, Weinhards, Icehouse, Keystone Aguila, Atlas, Balboa, Barena, Gambrinus, Grolsch, Kozel, Lech, Light, Killians, Leinenkugels, Club, Club Colombia, Costea, Peroni, Peroni Nastro Azzurro, MGD 64, Mickeys, Miller Chill, Cristal, Cusquea, Golden Light, Pilsner Urquell, Radegast Birell, Miller Genuine Draft, Miller High Imperial, Pilsen, Pilsener, Pilsen ari, Timisoreana, Topvar, Life, Miller Lite, Milwaukees Best, Callao, Pilsen Trujillo, Poker, Pony Tropical, Tyskie, Ursus, Zolotaya Molson Canadian, Olde English, Malta, Port Royal and Salva Vida.
Further facts Further facts Further facts 2 2 Total number of breweries 17 Total number of breweries 22 MillerCoors operates eight major Total number of Total average number breweries, and as at 31 March 2 3 bottling plants 16 of employees 15,201 2010 had 8,500 employees.
Total average number 3 of employees 24,979 For further information see our For further information see our For further information see our Operations review: page 29 Operations review: page 26 Operations review: page 27 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 The group at a glance 5 Brewing is essentially a local business: beer brands are typically rooted in local communities and have their own rich histories and heritage.
At SABMiller we respect and nurture these qualities while investing to improve the quality, choice and availability of local brand portfolios.
At the same time, our international premium brands Pilsner Urquell, Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Miller Genuine Our international premium Draft and Grolsch offer a premium drinking brands Pilsner Urquell, Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Miller experience to consumers around the world.
Genuine Draft and Grolsch Africa South Africa Asia Overview Overview Overview In Africa, our brewing and The South African Breweries CR Snow, our partnership with beverage operations cover Limited is our original brewing China Resources Enterprise, 15 countries with a further company and South Africas Limited, is the largest brewer 18 covered through a strategic leading producer and distributor in China.
alliance with the Castel group.
of alcoholic and non-alcoholic We are the second-largest We also have associated beverages.
undertakings in Kenya We also export our brands for We have an operation in Vietnam, and Zimbabwe.
a joint venture in Australia and In most of these countries we Our soft drinks division is South export significant volumes to are the number one brewer by Africas leading producer of South Korea and Taiwan.
products for The Coca-Cola Our regional office is located We bottle soft drinks for The Company.
Coca-Cola Company in 20 of our We also have hotel and gaming African markets, 13 of which are interests through Tsogo Sun, the Key local brands through our alliance with Castel.
largest hotel and gaming group Bluetongue, Fosters, Haywards, Our regional office is located in in South Africa.
Indus Pride, Knock Out, Royal Johannesburg, South Africa.
Our regional office is located Challenge, Snow and Zorok.
Key local brands Further facts 2M, Ambo, Castle Lager, Key local brands 2 Total number of breweries 12 Castle Milk Stout, Chibuku, Club, Appletiser, Brutal Fruit, Carling Eagle, Kilimanjaro, Laurentina, Total average number Black Label, Castle Lager, Castle 3 Lion Lager, Maluti, Mosi, Ndovu, of employees 4,494 Lite, Castle Milk Stout, Hansa Ngola, Nile Special, Rwenzori, Marzen Gold, Hansa Pilsener, Safari, Sebebe, Source, Stone, Redds, Sarita and Skelters Straight.
St Louis, Voltic and White Bull.
Further facts Further facts 2 Total number of breweries 7 1 Excluding corporate 2 Total number of breweries 30 costs.
Total number of 2 The number Total number of 2 bottling plants 6 2 of breweries bottling plants 21 and bottling Total average number Total average number plants relates to 3 of employees 12,885 3 subsidiaries only of employees 12,182 except MillerCoors.
3 See note 6 to the consolidated financial statements on page 91.
The average number of employees relates For further information see our For further information see our For further information see our to subsidiaries only Operations review: page 30 Operations review: page 32 Operations review: page 31 except MillerCoors.
