Section 1 Serco in brief What we offer Our vision and strategy We use our core capability people-led service delivery and change Our vision is to be the worlds greatest service company.
management to improve the quality and efficiency of essential frontline services.
Because this capability is so widely applicable, Everyone in Serco discovers their own interpretation of greatest, we can operate in a broad and growing range of markets around which supports what they do every day.
However, it is not about the world.
It means being the best at what we do and how we do it what we call bringing service to life.
We start by analysing a customers problems and producing a bespoke solution, with improved people management at its heart.
Our strategy for achieving this vision has four elements: This means that we design organisations to remove bureaucracy, 1 enhance processes, instil our values and free people to deliver their best.
Building a balanced portfolio: We aim to reduce risk and increase opportunity by building a balanced contract portfolio, spread across Building long-term customer relationships is fundamental to us.
This reduces our exposure to market uctuations, enables We devolve responsibility to our contract directors, allowing them to us to select the best opportunities whichever market they are in, anticipate and respond to customers needs.
The Serco Management and allows us to transfer expertise from one market to another.
System, which controls how we operate, ensures these actions are 2 also in Sercos best interests.
Delivering excellent service: This means meeting and often exceeding customer expectations.
We do this by having the For more on what we offer and how we work, responsible behaviours enshrined in our values at the heart of see page 6 everything we do.
This enables us to build long-term customer relationships, to expand the scope and scale of contracts during More information on the Serco Management System their life, retain contracts at rebid and win new contracts.
is available on our website 02 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section1.
indd 2 14 03 2011 14:16 3 Our track record of success Making strategic acquisitions: While we are primarily focused on Implementing our strategy and in particular our emphasis on organic growth, we make acquisitions to gain skills which will be bringing service to life for customers leads directly to our financial important for future growth and to enter markets where we see success.
The focus on service excellence underpins our win rates strong opportunities.
of 90% of rebids and one in two new bids, which in turn drive our revenue growth.
4 Developing new models: We respond to emerging opportunities Since we listed in 1988, we have rapidly increased our revenue, by nding new ways to deliver services.
This may mean collaboration primarily through organic growth.
By securing higher margin between our divisions, bringing together skills and experience which contracts and managing our cost base, we have been able few other companies can replicate, or partnering with our customer to increase our margins.
At the same time, we have delivered or the voluntary sector.
Our ability to lead change keeps us at the significant improvements in our free cash ow.
Our success is recognised by others in the many awards we win for operational excellence.
For more on our strategy, see pages 8 and 9 For more on our recent performance, see the operating review on pages 26 to 51 and the finance review on pages 52 to 59 The future Customers around the world are looking for help in transforming the quality and efficiency of essential frontline services.
This creates opportunities for Serco in new and existing markets and geographies.
Our confidence in our prospects is supported by the high revenue visibility provided by our order book, our existing pipeline of opportunities and the growth potential we see across our business.
For more on our markets and opportunities, see page 22 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 03 Serco AR10 Section1.
