2 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group at a glance Severn Trent Water Find out more on page 6 Severn Trent Water provides high quality water and sewerage services to over 3.7 million households and businesses in the Midlands and mid-Wales.
Where we operate in the UK Key strengths Our bills for customers are now the lowest on average in the UK industry.
We continuously work to improve our performance and deliver cost and operational efficiencies against 20 Key Our region stretches across the heart of Performance Indicators, each of which the UK, from the is aligned with our long term strategy.
Bristol Channel to the Humber, and The drinking water and waste water from mid-Wales to the East Midlands.
quality we provide is amongst the best in the industry.
Our physical assets include: We are committed to the long term 46,000 km of water mains responsible stewardship of the 134 water treatment works business, the environment, customers 54,000 km of sewers and the communities in which we live 1,021 sewage and work.
treatment works We are led by a focused management team with a clear business plan and Drinking water supplied per day strategic direction statement.
1.8bn litres Our industry Our performance Treated waste water per day The water industry in England and Wales Like all water companies we submit a invests more than 3 billion a year and detailed annual breakdown of our 2.7bn litres employs over 27,000 people.
There are 10 performance to Ofwat each June, known regional water and sewerage companies in as the June Return.
This information Employees England and Wales.
We are seeking ways enables Ofwat to monitor and compare to address the long term challenges the water companies performances.
5,686 industry faces, including the possible Our performance is also regulated by the introduction of water trading and other Drinking Water Inspectorate, which is measures to improve the national distribution responsible for ensuring that we comply of water see Our industry page 6.
Turnover m with drinking water quality regulations 2009 10 up 4.6% Our prices and the Environment Agency, which Every five years, Ofwat, our economic controls water abstraction, river pollution 2010 1,385.3 regulator, sets annual price limits for each and flooding.
2009 1,324.9 water company which determine how In addition, we work closely with other much income we collect from our agencies, such as the Department for customers.
These five year cycles are Environment, Food and Rural Affairs referred to as Asset Management Plan Defra, the Consumer Council for Water Profit m AMP periods.
We have just reached the and Natural England as we aim to achieve 2009 10 up 18.7% end of the period 200510 AMP4 and are the highest customer service and 541.3 about to enter our next five year regulatory 2010 environmental standards, while offering our period AMP5.
The price limits for 456.0 2009 customers the lowest possible prices.
201015 were set in November 2009 before interest, tax and exceptional items see Focusing on the next regulatory period on page 9.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3 Severn Trent Services Find out more on page 19 Severn Trent Services is one of the worlds leading providers of water and waste water operational and treatment solutions.
We have a reputation for continuous innovation, reliable and quality services and leadership in our selected markets.
Our businesses Key strengths Severn Trent Services provides products and services to water and waste water Our business has a clear strategy for utilities, municipalities and commercial long term growth, which focuses on customers around the world.
Our global the growing global demand for clean headquarters are in Fort Washington, water and safe and efficient waste Pennsylvania, USA.
We also have 21 other water treatment.
We are known around the world for We have three principal business groups: quality, reliability and stability.
Operating Services We provide Operating Services Water Purification to an increasing number of utilities, Analytical Services municipalities and commercial customers in a growing number Growth strategy of countries.
Continuing the geographic expansion of our products and services.
In Water Purification, our products and services enjoy a strong position Expanding the scope of our operating in high growth, high margin markets services to existing clients around such as disinfection, filtration, the world.
adsorption and marine offshore Enhancing products and operations to waste water treatments.
improve our effectiveness and efficiency.
We operate at the forefront of Developing new technologies at advanced water treatment technology.
the forefront of water and waste We have a long term track record of Number of offices worldwide water solutions.
Key Strategic Initiatives 22 Eight Key Strategic Initiatives define our strategy and how we intend to achieve Employees Our purpose statement our objectives: We are trusted as leading experts in water.
We endeavour to always deliver solutions that are right for our customers and Continuously improve quality, health, the environment.
We build long term relationships by Turnover m Deliver what customers value.
understanding and acting on our customers 2009 10 down 0.8% Establish long term contracts and strong needs, delivering value and behaving with 2010 336.5 sales channel relationships.
integrity in everything we do.
339.3 2009 E xpand our global technology programme.
Continue to build a strong, coherent and respected brand.
Profit m Optimise processes and organisational 2009 10 down 5.9% capabilities.
28.7 2010 Invest in strategic acquisitions 2009 30.5 and partnerships to supplement organic growth.
before interest, tax and exceptional items Overview
