02 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 At A GlAnCe: ACtIvItIeS WHeRe We OpeRAte UK and Ireland insulation and Building environments 1,281.2m 48.0% Mainland europe sig is the largest specialist supplier of of total revenue insulation and related products in europe.
it holds leading market positions in the uk, 1,386.8m ireland, germany and poland and is the leader in industrial insulation in france.
52.0% of total revenue sig also operates in the netherlands, belgium, Austria, czech Republic, slovakia and hungary.
Revenue: 1,020.6m 38% of total revenue principal countries of operation: insulation specialist and Building Construction environments exteriors interiors products united kingdom ireland Key market drivers germany and Austria france the need to reduce energy consumption poland more stringent government regulation benelux czech Republic, government initiatives around slovakia and hungary renewable energy in addition to sigs principal countries of operation the group also has a small trading presence in six other jurisdictions, being turkey, Romania, bulgaria, uAe, spain and luxembourg.
the operations in these six jurisdictions amount in total to less than 1% of group revenue and have therefore not been included in the table above.
Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts 03 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 exteriors interiors specialist Construction products sig is the largest specialist supplier of sig is a leading supplier of branded sig is a leading supplier of specialist exterior roofing products in the UK and complementary products for the interior fit construction products in the uk and ireland ireland, a leading independent supplier out of nonresidential buildings with trading and offers a wide portfolio of products in france and a key regional supplier in sites in the uk, ireland, germany, france, including concrete accessories, waterproofing germany and poland.
poland, the netherlands, belgium, Austria, systems and chemicals, brickwork support czech Republic, slovakia and hungary.
systems, specialist fixings, safety products in the uk and ireland sig also supplies and tools.
sig also supplies specialist sig supplies products and systems to every sector of the roofing industry for both new purposemade partitions and performance construction products in poland, germany doorsets for all types of commercial and and france.
projects and repair and maintenance.
Revenue: Revenue: Revenue: 788.7m 661.3m 197.4m 30% 25% 7% of total revenue of total revenue of total revenue Key market drivers Key market drivers Key market drivers essential Rmi requirement Refurbishment of nonresidential buildings investment in infrastructure e. g. schools, offices, hospitals, retail and nondiscretionary spending by utilities growth of specialist distribution as the main supply route Improving standards of internal fit out demand for high performance solutions and innovative products new products thermal, acoustic and safety standard Supply chain efficiency and specific technical just in time project management
