D IRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW OUR GROUP AT A GLANCE O ur group at a glance 19% 9% 27% of total of total of total revenue revenue revenue Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted Revenue operating profit Revenue operating profit Revenue operating profit 1,941m 240m 954m 33m 2,730m 341m Sugar Agriculture Retail Sugar, Europe Agriculture Primark British Sugars UK beet sugar factories produce over AB Agri sells animal feed to farmers and purchases Primark is a major retail group employing over one million tonnes of sugar annually.
Its Spanish grain from them.
It also provides sustainable supply 31,500 people.
It operates stores in the UK, Republic business, Azucarera, produces around 400,000 tonnes chain solutions to food, drink and biofuel producers.
of Ireland, Spain, the Netherlands, Portugal, Germany of beet sugar each year and has a cane refining It has facilities in the UK and China and markets and Belgium.
products in over 40 countries worldwide.
Targeted at the fashion-conscious under 35s, Primark Sugar, China offers customers high-quality merchandise at value We have majority interests in five cane sugar mills for money prices.
Primark prides itself on its loyal in Guangxi Province and operate seven beet sugar customer base.
factories in the north east of the country.
Continuous Buying and merchandising teams in Dublin Republic investment has raised annual sugar capacity to of Ireland and Reading UK travel internationally 850,000 tonnes.
to source and buy up-to-the-minute fashion items Sugar, southern Africa that best reflect each seasons key fashion trends.
Illovo is Africas largest sugar producer with Primarks range of departments includes womenswear, agricultural and production facilities in six countries.
lingerie, childrenswear, menswear, footwear, accessories, Illovo grows 6.1 million tonnes of sugar cane itself hosiery and homeware.
and its annual sugar production is 1.9 million tonnes.
2 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW OUR GROUP AT A GLANCE The group operates through five strategic business segments: Sugar: Agriculture: Retail: Grocery: and Ingredients.
34% 1 1% of total of total revenue revenue Adjusted Adjusted Revenue operating profit Revenue operating profit 3,406m 229m 1,067m 104m Grocery Ingredients Go online for more Hot beverages, sugar and sweeteners Yeast and bakery ingredients For more information on our year, our approach Twinings and Ovaltine comprise our global hot AB Mauri operates globally in yeast and bakery to corporate responsibility and shareholder beverages business.
We are market leaders in ingredient production with 49 plants in 25 countries information go to www.
co. uk UK sugar with Silver Spoon and Billingtons.
supplying plant and artisanal bakers and the foodservice and wholesale channels.
It is a technology Vegetable oils leader in bread improvers, dough conditioners and Mazola is the leader in premium corn oil in the US.
In Mexico, Capullo is a premium canola oil.
Speciality ingredients Bread, baked goods and cereals ABF Ingredients focuses on high-value ingredients for We produce Jordans cereals in the UK and leading food and non-food applications.
It manufactures and bakery brands, Kingsmill, Ryvita, and Tip Top in the markets enzymes, yeast extracts, speciality proteins UK and Australia.
World Foods World Foods comprises our authentic pan-Asian food brands, Pataks and Blue Dragon.
Herbs and spices We are a leading US producer of herbs and spices through the Tones, Spice Islands and Durkee brands.
Meat In Australia we are a leading supplier of ham, bacon and smallgoods through the Don and KRC brands.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3
