sports direct at a glance a brief overview of our business What we do the Groups uK stores other than Field & trek supply strengthened following the acquisition of universal a wide range of competitively priced sports and leisure cycles by the introduction of a range of cycle products equipment, clothing, footwear and accessories, under in both stores and online.
We stock third party brands including as at 25 april 2010 the Group operated out of 387 stores adidas, nike, reebok and puma.
Group owned brands in the united Kingdom excluding northern ireland.
the include dunlop, slazenger and lonsdale and we also majority of stores trade under the sportsdirect.
com use licensed in brands.
fascia, although Field & trek stores trade under their a significant proportion of the revenue in the stores is own fascia.
derived from the sale of the Group owned and licensed in branded products, which allows the retail business to generate higher margins, whilst at the same time Where we are differentiating the Groups stores from its competitors, both in terms of the range of products on sale and the the Group has retail interests outside the uK and has competitive prices at which they are offered.
a flexible approach to entry into new markets.
these interests include wholly owned retail outlets in Belgium, Field & trek operates out of 19 stores in the uK, Holland, luxembourg and slovenia trading as sports selling a wide range of camping and outdoor equipment, direct, joint ventures with other retailers such as in waterproof clothing and footwear, including leading Heatons stores in northern ireland and the republic of brands such as Berghaus, Merrell and salomon.
ireland stores within another retailers store as in cyprus.
the acquisition of Field & trek gave the Group an entry into the outdoor market, which had been identified as a strategic opportunity for the Group, and that has been sports direct is the uKs leading sports retailer by revenue and operating profit, and the owner of a significant number of internationally recognised sports and leisure brands.
section 1 OVERVIEW our Brands the Groups portfolio includes a wide variety of internationally recognisable sport and fashion brands.
the Groups retail division sells products under these Group brands in its stores, and the Brands division exploits the brands through its wholesale and licensing businesses.
the Brands division wholesale business sells the brands core products, such as dunlop tennis rackets RETAIl BRANDS and slazenger tennis balls, to wholesale customers and distributors throughout the world, obtaining far 87% of Group sales 13% of Group sales wider distribution for these products than would be the case if their sale was restricted to Group stores.
the wholesale business also wholesales childrenswear and other clothing.
the licensing business licenses third parties to apply Group owned brands to non-core products manufactured and distributed by those third parties, and third parties are currently licensed in different product areas in over 100 countries.
the Brands division is closely involved in the development of licensed products and monitors licensees and their manufacturers to ensure product quality, presentation and consistency with the appropriate brand strategy.
the Brands division continue to sponsor a variety of prestigious events and retain a base of globally recognised, high profile sports men and women.
in tennis, slazenger continues to be the official ball supplier for the Wimbledon championships and dunlops professional tour team continues to grow, with the recent additions of Fernando Verdasco and nikolay davydenko, both ranked in the worlds top 10 tennis players.
Golfers darren clarke and in particular lee Westwood continue to shine in major tournaments under the sponsorship of dunlop.
international cricket captains paul collingwood & Michael clarke continue to be sponsored by slazenger whilst other sports such as badminton and squash continue to provide brand exposure for carlton and dunlop respectively.
the portfolio of boxing brands within the Group remains strong as lonsdale celebrates 50 years and everlast 100 years as specialists in manufacturing combat sports equipment and apparel.
Both brands have a stable of sponsored boxers and mixed martial arts fighters that continues to grow.
sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 3
