02 03 ssl At A glAnCE  SSL t t t e D D D D D D Du u u u u u ure re re re re re rex x x x x x x D D fide e el l lu u uxe xe xe D D Du u ure re rex x x R R Re e ea a al l lFe Fe Fee e el l l D D Du u ure re rex x x F F Fe e eth th the e erl rl rli i it t te e e Ultra Scholl Clear Gel B B Bl l li i is s ste te ter r r P P Pl l la a as s ste te ter r rs s s Scholl sandals Scholl Biomechanics Sensitive Feet Scholl Hard Skin Softening Cream Scholl Hard Skin Softening Pen Scholl Party Feet Heel Cushions Scholl Party Feet Ultra Slim Durex Play Very Cherry Scholl 3 in 1 Perfect Nail Treatment Full Marks Solution Paramol Tablets Durex Play V V Vi i ib b br r ra a atio tio tion n ns s s Play O Syndol Deo D D Dre re res s ss s s L L Love ove ove Box.
fEAtuREd pROduCts EXTERNAL SALES BRANDED CONSUMER BY GEOGRAPHY m SALES BY CATEGORY m 1 DUREX AND 1 EUROPE 621.6 CONTEX 348.1 2 ASIA PACIFIC 2 SCHOLL 3 AND REST OF 4 2 FOOTCARE 169.3 3 WORLD 145.5 1 3 SCHOLL 3 AMERICAS 35.4 2 1 FOOTWEAR 105.9 4 LOCALLY OWNED BRANDS 65.3 duREx sChOll sChOll lOCAllY fOOtCARE fOOtWEAR OWnEd bRAnds undERlYing gROWth undERlYing gROWth undERlYing gROWth undERlYing dEClinE 4.
4% 4.4%   scholldeliversnewand  safesex, butwithgreatsex, innovativesolutions   ,  increasingconsumer andvalue, butisincreasingly innovationincondoms,  .
technologyintohighly SSLs Full Marks head lice brand regained its number one position durexcondoMs fashionablefootwear.
Durex condom sales have coMfort in UK and Ireland and is also now sold by SSL in Spain, Italy, Australia again performed well, with good Our comfort range offers  underlying growth.
This year has specialist solutions to make feet At the heart of Schollness is and Germany and will soon be launched in Russia.
seen the launch of three new more comfortable, including technology to ensure all-day condoms in the Feeling range Scholl Biomechanics orthotic comfort.
We categorise this into otc Deluxe, the diamond standard inserts, designed to relieve pain in four areas: Shock Absorption, in thinness: RealFeel, for skin-onthe heel, knee and lower back, and including Gelactiv products: This year we have increased distribution of Medinol skin feeling: and Fetherlite Ultra the popular Party Feet range.
Anatomy & Ergonomics, including super-fine condoms with sensi-fit Bioprint and Biomechanics shoes paracetamol suspension and strong performances came from technology.
cAre and removable insoles: Exercise This category includes our Effect, for shoes that exercise and painkillers Cuprofen and Anbesol, Ashton & Parsons teething durexplAyluBricAnts specialist skincare and nailcare tone leg muscles: and Massage Durex Play inspires people to ranges, led by the innovative new Benefits for our range of powders and anti-diarrhoeal treatment Diocalm.
explore and discover new sexual Hard Skin range and the clinicallymassage styles.
The proven Cracked Heel Repair MisterBABy success of Play O continues, as Cream.
It also includes our foot styleiMproveMents does the success of our odour, hygiene and freshness Working with designers such Mister Baby is our Italian mothers and infants range, which we have flavoured lubricants.
as Diego Dolcini and Alberto Del Biondi, we are developing the refocused on the strategic pillars of baby feeding and baby hygiene.
durexplAyviBrAtors Aid Scholl contemporary range with a Our Play range of personal This category offers specialist fashion focus.
Using our expertise sAuBer devices continues to expand into solutions for the effective in foot health, these shoes are new markets and Durex is proud treatment and prevention of stylish and contemporary, but Also based in Italy, Sauber is a range of well-being and healthcare to have brought vibrators into high common foot health conditions, retain their comfort features.
This street stores around the world.
including corns, athletes foot has raised interest particularly in products.
We launched Sauber the shoe retail trade, including Deo Dress, an innovative personal and verrucas.
This category also includes our new improved department stores.
deodorant that can be sprayed directly on clothes.
