Eddie Stobart, Business Highlights 2009-2010 Success with blue-chip business The award of the new Unilever contract is yet another example of how Stobart Group is growing through its ability to win major contracts from headline brands.
Its been another strong year for new business at the Stobart Group.
There have been important wins with both small and large clients, notably a new contract with Unilever.
One reason why Unilever were attracted to Stobart is due to our highly efficient pooling of customers, which delivers substantial cost savings over the traditional revenue driven Open Book model said William Stobart.
Another reason is Stobarts multimodal service, offering road, rail, sea and air.
They recognised that the Stobart Groups cutting edge technology and operating systems are superior to any rival.
Executive Director David Irlams long experience in high level negotiations has been invaluable in consolidating and expanding existing key client relationships and securing valuable new contracts with blue-chip names like Johnson & Johnson.
Left: Stobarts Johnson & Johnson Contract Manager Peter Kelly with Executive Director David Irlam on the right.
3 Stobart Group Limited Introduction Like them, we also have a carbon cutting agenda and this environmental innovation appealed to Unilever.
They also liked the Stobart The Unilever contract is culture.
It is different from competitors.
We can offer the financial security of a FTSE 250 company with an underlying family busiworth circa 20m annually ness attitude.
Eddie Stobarts key relationship with Tesco plc has been further and is a major bonus to the consolidated with a major new 25m per annum transport contract serving the retail giants north east Distribution Centre at Teesport.
As a client, Unilever is Stobart Ireland continues to show significant growth with the award of a 13m transport contract for Tescos Donabate DC.
particularly attractive because Warehousing continues to perform impressively with new contracts many of its headline products awarded by Danone 4m per annum and SCA Packaging 2m per annum.
The integration of the Chilled operation has also been sell irrespective of recession reflected in new business with Dale Farm, Del Monte and Co-Op, totalling 7m per annum.
Arla Foods is now one of Chilleds largest or season.
customers generating around 3m revenue per annum.
New contracts have been matched with extensive renewals across the Eddie Stobart transport and warehousing operation.
The Groups relationships with leading names, Gerber, Knauf, McBride plc and Forest Garden have all been renewed and extended.
Finally, and significantly, a new nine year contract with Stobarts longest-standing client, Crown has been agreed.
Building on a 40 year relationship, it takes advantage of the new development now underway at Carlisle airport.
This just-in-time transport and warehousing contract will generate revenue over the contract totalling circa 150m.
Report and Accounts 2010 4 Stobart Rail, Business Highlights 2009-2010 5 Stobart Group Limited Introduction The innovative new Valencia fresh rail service, which was launched in September 2009, is likely to increase from one to three services per week during 2010.
National and International It is also faster than an equivalent journey by road, improving the Rail Freight solutions shelf life of the products mostly fruit and vegetables.
The service Stobart Rail began its innovative fresh train service from Valencia is also considerably more environmentally friendly than a similar in southern Spain to Barking in London last October.
The weekly road service: reducing CO emissions annually by 5,502 tonnes 2 service provides for the first time a low-carbon alternative for and cutting 6.92 million kilometres of road journeys per year.
retailers and customers for the import of fresh Spanish produce.
In line with Stobarts ongoing drive to reduce waste throughout The pioneering Spanish train is the longest train route provided the business the return journey is full of pallets, cutting out by a single European operator at 1,100 miles.
The new train empty running.
also marks the first time a refrigerated service has operated Plans are well advanced for the extension of the route from through the Eurotunnel.
Barking on to Stobarts multimodal hub at Widnes, where there is an extensive chilled warehouse distribution facility, said Stobart Group Chief Operating Officer William Stobart.
Widnes is an ideal hub for distribution into the heartland of the UK.
Report and Accounts 2010 6 Stobart Ports, Business Highlights 2009-2010 Inland Port Asset Stobarts Inland Port Development and Disposal was developed by Across its four Divisions the Group performs operational services for customers and the Groups in-house during this past year has seen the first results of a profitable new complementary business stream for the Stobart Group: Asset development and disposal.
team, generating new Existing underutilised assets such as the port facilities or new assets in convenient locations near major roads, ports or airports will be developed generating operational operating revenue profit streams and then potentially disposed at a capital profit.
streams and then two Prior to year end, the Group sold part of its inland ports asset, at Widnes, to Legal and General Assurance Pension Management Limited, for 61 million.
The disposal packparts were sold at a age included the outright sale of the new Tesco chilled distribution site and the sale and leaseback of the adjoining inland port terminal.
This represented an initial return on significant profit.
A key part of the sale was the 528,000 square foot distribution centre developed by the Group and recently announced as the new Northern Distribution Centre for Tescos fresh operations.
The Group has also been confirmed as transport contractor.
Furthermore, the Group will generate additional revenue streams from rail freight and ports storage and handling.
The centre is superbly placed, alongside a major inland port, good road network, a rail terminal and Liverpool Airport.
Stobarts existing Valencia fresh rail service will soon be extended to the Widnes site, allowing fresh fruit and vegetables to be delivered, for Tesco, directly from southern Spain.
When Stobart fully develops the Widnes site, it will double in size, and will increase the companys total warehousing capacity to nearly seven million square feet.
This asset disposal illustrates a fundamental strategy of our Group which is to invest in assets in order to develop existing and new customer relationships and then realise the value of the asset, at a profit, to reinvest elsewhere within the business, said Chief Executive Officer Andrew Tinkler.
7 Stobart Group Limited Introduction 90 Acres Approved for Development Currently under negotiation with a 31 Acres Already number of clients.
Developed 42 Acres Already Developed Report and Accounts 2010 8 Stobart Air, Business Highlights 2009-2010 Dubai Ports new Shell Haven deep sea port development Dover Recently Approved Runway Extension New Control Tower Under Construction Site of New Terminal Dedicated Rail Station and Carpark Under Construction Airport development on-target With planning permission now With planning permission granted for the new runway extension granted for the important runway at Southend and development work well underway, the nearby London Olympics will ensure theres huge potential for the site.
extension at London Southend Stobarts Air Division has made huge progress in the past year, Airport, construction of the new Control thanks mostly to developments at London Southend Airport.
The long established airport, once the third busiest in the UK, was Tower is moving ahead fast, whilst the acquired by the Stobart Group in December 2008. dedicated Rail Station is rapidly apStobart plans to greatly increase capacity, and will work with existing and new operators to boost both passengers and freight.
The goal proaching completion by Stobart Rail.
is to welcome at least 600,000 passengers to Southend by 2012, the year of the London Olympics, rising to two million by 2020.
9 Stobart Group Limited Introduction City of London and Millennium Dome M25 Airport industrial complex and development land Fuel Farm Stratford 42min Rail to London Liverpool Street 49min Government approval for the runway extenLondon Southend Airport sion forms a key stage in Stobarts 30 million Prestigious dedicated railway station will be completed September 2010, providing development plans, with work already undera quick route into Central London for local people, as well as airport customers.
way on a new railway station and control tower which will be completed during 2010.
New Control Tower will be completed November 2010.
New Passenger Terminal will be completed September 2011.
Southend is closer to mainland Europe than any other London airport reducing flying time Existing 1,605m x 37m runway approved for extension to 1,905m, giving a take off by 20 minutes.
The airspace over Southend distance of 1,799m.
is less congested than other London faciliRunway Extension will be completed by October 2011. ties, reducing the likelihood of delay and The extended runway will easily handle popular 160 seat, short haul aircraft such improving passenger flow.
as the Airbus A319 and Boeing 737.
Commercial operations should serve two million passengers each year by 2020.
