Directors Report: Business review 2010 highlights Delivering a strong performance In 2010, we demonstrated continued exploration and appraisal success and delivered first production from the Jubilee development in record time.
Our reported financial results for 2010 are materially ahead of 2009.
The successful equity placing in 2010 coupled with the planned Uganda farm-down, and the increased cash flow from Ghana, will ensure that the Group remains well funded to execute its exploration-led growth strategy.
Celebrations to mark First Oil, in Takoradi, Ghana.
The Sedco 702 during drilling operations, offshore Ghana.
Ugandan staff during a visit to the London office.
Lake Albert and the surrounding area in EA 2, Uganda.
Respected deepwater operator New licences in East Africa In Ghana, we have completed the first phase of development of We are trying to replicate our Ugandan exploration success elsewhere the Jubilee field successfully.
Tullow has now become a competent in East Africa and have acquired a 50% operated interest in six adjacent and respected deepwater operator.
His Excellency John Atta Mills, licences covering the East African Rift Basins of Kenya and Ethiopia.
President of Ghana, led the celebrations to mark First Oil production in December 2010.
65% local employees We are very conscious of being part of an emerging industry in many Increasing production profile parts of Africa and we want to contribute to developing an industry that Our production and financial profile is being transformed through First is run by nationals.
We do this by hiring local staff and creating training Oil production in Ghana.
Successfully achieving First Oil in 2010 and and career development opportunities.
the steady ramp-up to plateau production this year will drive significant revenue growth and underpin future cash flow generation.
Very low staff turnover Our total workforce grew 40% in 2010, adding new skills and developing Strong EHS performance our organisational capacity.
We fundamentally believe everything is The Tullow Team delivered a strong Environment, Health & Safety EHS about teamwork and people and monitor our staff turnover on an performance across the business.
Of particular note was the strong EHS annual basis.
It was 1.3% in 2010. performance on the Jubilee Project which delivered first-rate EHS results during the course of a diverse and challenging project, with Progress in Uganda many complex and potentially hazardous operations.
Tullow and the Government of Uganda GoU are currently engaged in finalising a Memorandum of Understanding MoU.
The imminent signing 83% E&A success ratio of this MoU will be the first step on an exciting journey to developing Exploration & appraisal E&A achieved an 83% success ratio in 2010 Uganda as a significant oil-producing country.
with important Equatorial Atlantic discoveries offshore Ghana and offshore Sierra Leone, together with 10 successes out of 10 wells in Uganda.
A 40-well E&A campaign including basin-opening wells in Africa and South America is planned for 2011. www.
