Annual Report and Accounts 2010 at a glance The Group Why Ultra is different Ultra Electronics is an internationally successful defence, security, transport and energy company with a long, consistent record of development and growth, achieving 17% compound annual growth of total shareholder return since otation in 1996.
The Group maintains a programme of reinvestment of funds to strengthen its positions in its specialist markets.
Ultra businesses constantly innovate to create solutions to customer requirements that are different from and better than those of the Groups competitors.
By applying these differentiated solutions to a wide range of international platforms and programmes, Ultra has built an exceptionally broad range of niche market positions.
This spread gives resilience to the Groups financial performance.
Ultra offers support to its customers through the design, delivery and support phases of a programme.
Ultra businesses have a high degree of operational autonomy so that they may provide exceptionally agile and responsive support to customers and partners.
Markets Defence Transport Ultra supplies Ultra provides advanced electronic specialist software, and electrical systems systems and and equipment to equipment for use coalition defence in mass passenger forces around the transport systems.
The Group This includes high innovates to provide integrity real-time specialist capabilities that are superior to those available controls for civil aircraft, advanced IT solutions for modern to the opponents.
By focusing on delivering comparative airports and trackside power equipment for transit rail military advantage, Ultra can gain market share and exploit systems.
Demand in all areas is driven by rising populations the headroom for growth that is available in defence in affluent regions of the world.
Security Energy Ultra provides highly Countries around the differentiated systems world are addressing and capabilities to the strategic need to the broad security have secure access to and intelligence increasing amounts market.
Driven by of low carbon energy.
the actions of rogue Ultra has a range of states, terrorist safety critical sensors groups, organised crime and state-sponsored cyber activity, and controls that are used in existing and new build governments worldwide are focusing expenditure nuclear reactors.
The Group also has innovative portable preferentially on addressing these threats.
Ultra has highly energy sources powered by readily available propane gas.
specialised capabilities in cryptology for information assurance.
MORE on pages 18 and 19 02 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
