Directors report Business review Highlights of the year Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Wolseley has begun to emerge from the extremely difficult market environment of the last three years.
Through tough actions and a new strategic approach, the business is well positioned to exploit the opportunities that lie ahead.
Markets stabilising Lower cost base In 2010 revenue was down 9 per cent Since the start of the recession we have to13,203 million.
There was a gradual taken action to lower the cost base, stabilisation of our markets, with RMI asrevenues decreased.
Operating costs segments generally holding up better than in the year to 31 July 2010, were reduced the more volatile new residential segments.
by a further 353million or 10 per cent.
This led to a strong second half and likefor-like revenue growth in the fourth quarter.
13.2bn 353m 1 Resource allocation completed Improved trading profit In March 2010 we announced our intention Despite a decrease in revenue of 9 per cent, to focus future growth on those Wolseley actions to protect gross margins and the businesses where we have built substantial benefit of a lower cost base enabled scale, leading market positions and theGroup to increase trading profit to excellent customer franchises.
completed our plans for this year.
450m Net debt reduced Exited underperforming businesses The Group continues to place a high degree of emphasis on cash generation.
During the year the Group has exited Continued working capital discipline and fromseveral businesses.
This included management actions to conserve cash our businesses inIreland, the French and capital expenditure meant that our Public Works business and our netdebt at 31 July 2010, was reduced plumbing and heating activities in by613million to 346 million 2009: the Czech Republic, 959million.
613m 1 Trading profit, a term used throughout the Annual Report, isdened as operating profit before exceptional items andthe amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
See note 12 of the consolidated financial statements for areconciliation from operating profit to trading profit.
Wolseley plc 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
