76 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility At Aviva, corporate responsibility CR means embracing our Our achievements within our global community programme responsibilities and developing opportunities to be a strong Street to School have helped us achieve a 43% rise in the amount sustainable business.
We want what we do every day to have a of investment in our communities, but the amount of volunteering positive impact on the societies in which we operate.
In this report hours has reduced by 28%.
This is because we no longer use we highlight how we are addressing the issues that are material brokers to find volunteering opportunities and volunteering for our business.
These issues include responding to the need to opportunities with children require special training.
We are improve trust in the financial services sector: attracting and exploring options to make it easier for our employees to make use retaining talent: developing communities: influencing the climate of their three days volunteering leave to address this.
We know change agenda and promoting financial capability.
this helps grow employee pride but there is more to be done on The report that follows contains a summary of the progress wider employee engagement which dropped by 1% in 2010.
All and performance of our CR programme in 2010 aligned to these teams across the Group are creating action plans to help us material issues.
A more detailed review is available online at deliver on our employee promise of At Aviva I am recognised for www.
com  reports who I am, and my contribution matters.
We are proud of our extensive approach to diversity and Highlights from 2010 include: inclusion.
We have three female non-executive directors and good Being the first company to put our CR report in the Annual standing in benchmarks and indices.
However, we have seen a Report to an advisory vote of shareholders at the AGM slight drop in the percentage of women in senior management to Increasing perception of CR internally leading to an 21% 2009: 22%.
This is something we are intent on addressing.
increasing sense of pride in what Aviva stands for 74% of Throughout the report that follows we outline our employees responding to our employee survey think that our performance and progress in 2010 and we are keen to continue commitment to CR is genuine, a rise of 8% from 2009 our dialogue with our stakeholders to further develop our CR Developing commercial insurance products to support strategy, CR capability and positive contribution to the world development of a low carbon economy we all share.
Increasing community investment by 43% and increasing recognition of our global community programme Street to Governance School, helping over 128,000 children Aviva is proud to have a well-established governance structure Focusing on a balanced leadership to ensure an effective providing strong leadership and direction.
Our Corporate gender mix throughout all levels in the organisation.
Responsibility Committee is chaired by non-executive director Carole Piwnica, and comprises our chairman, group CEO and two Strategy and risk other non-executive directors, Scott Wheway and Euleen Goh.
Our CR strategy is an integral part of the way Aviva does business The committee reviews strategy and policy and receives regional internally and externally.
Our CR strategy was revised during the and functional reports four times a year.
Starting with our belief that by acting responsibly for the long report from all regional offices and the IT, audit, procurement, SRI term in how we do business we will meet our ambition to provide and customer teams.
As standing items it had business ethics and prosperity and peace of mind to our customers we took on the Street to School programme to discuss.
The Corporate feedback from a range of stakeholders to ensure our CR strategy Responsibility Committees report can be found on page 114. was correctly aligned to the most significant challenges and Our CR Advisory Group supports and advises on the opportunities we face.
For example, one of our priorities is to management and implementation of the global CR programme.
The risk is that consumers lose faith in Membership of the advisory group is being extended during 2011 financial services.
We know we need to conduct ourselves in line to include external stakeholders representative of our strategic with the highest ethical standards as set out in our business ethics priorities.
The internal members comprise Group CR specialists, code and satisfy the customers expectations to ensure their loyalty.
regional CR leads and HR directors who work together to adopt It is important that we recognise these issues and manage the and refine CR strategies, assess progress, identify actions that associated risks.
By working to turn these issues into opportunities need to be taken and embed our programmes in different parts for our business we help to shape the wider debate and action in of the business.
In addition, the Aviva Board receives both annual our societies.
and ad hoc updates on CR strategy, activities and progress.
Our We have developed a robust CR programme over the past ten CR programme is regularly on the agenda at executive years although we do acknowledge that we have differing levels management committees and regional performance against of CR maturity within our markets.
We are working hard to Group KPIs is reviewed quarterly.
A percentage of our senior develop our capability globally.
Our KPI section lists some areas executive remuneration is dependent on performance against our where we are outperforming our targets and leading the agenda.
In other areas we have a way to go to meet our ambitions.
In all areas we are committed to continuous improvement.
Stakeholder communications As an illustration, we are committed to reducing our impact By being open and transparent about what we do and how we on the environment and have long-term targets to focus run our business we believe we will be seen to have a high degree performance.
However, we note that while our absolute carbon of integrity and therefore continue to build trust in Aviva for all of emissions have reduced by 4% our actual emissions have risen by our stakeholders.
22% due to growth in the business and the extended scope of Key to this is the way that we report our CR commitments reporting boundaries to include subsidiary companies.
We prepare stand-alone detailed annual our growth to be sustainable so we will be working hard to reports for the Carbon Disclosure Project, UN Global Compact, reverse this trend.
ClimateWise and Principles of Responsible Investment.
