02 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Our business.
About ICG Overview Established in 1989, ICG is a FTSE 250 listed investment firm and fund manager specialising in mezzanine finance, minority equity, buyout debt and other related assets.
We manage around p FTSE 250 company with over 11 billion of assets 8.3 billion of third party assets in 23 funds for approximately under management 250 institutional investors, and a further 3.0 billion of assets on p A leading investor in and manager of mezzanine finance our own balance sheet.
With offices in Europe, Asia Pacific and and buyout debt North America, we are committed to delivering intelligent capital solutions for our investors and clients.
p One of the top 10 independent alternative asset managers in Europe: and top 30 globally p Local network of 55 experienced investment executives to source and mange investments Our global reach Amsterdam Stockholm Frankfurt Hong Kong 9 Number of offices New York 1 22 Number of employees Paris London Madrid Sydney 28 Number of languages spoken by our employees Our business Our business 03 Within the FMC, we categorise our funds into two main Our model business areas: ICGs business is organised into the following two segments: Our mezzanine and growth capital funds invest in mezzanine The Investment Company IC is an investment unit of ICG PLC.
and minority equity assets of proven mid market companies It co-invests alongside third party funds, primarily in mezzanine with leading positions in their local markets.
A co-investment and growth capital assets.
It is charged a management fee of model underpins these investments, where ICGs balance sheet 1 per cent of the carrying value of the investment portfolio by the coinvests alongside third party funds at a predetermined ratio.
Full details of the ICs portfolio is available pages 5062.
Our credit funds primarily invest in senior loans and high yield bonds of well managed European companies.
These investments The Fund Management Company FMC is an operating vehicle are made through our third party funds.
ICGs balance sheet of ICG PLC.
It sources and manages investments on behalf of occasionally provides seed capital, particularly during the the IC and third party funds.
A list of the FMC third party funds is developmental stage of a funds life.
Underpinning both business areas is a common credit culture and process: a strong local network of investment professionals whose local insights, knowledge and relationships provide us with a powerful advantage: and an operational platform that enables the Group to achieve its full potential.
Our model Investment Company 3.0bn Co-invest Fund Management Company Fund Management Company Credit funds Mezzanine and Growth Capital funds 4.7bn 3.6bn Asset class Asset class p Senior loans p Mezzanine p High yield bonds p Growth capital Characteristics Characteristics p Liquid market, option to trade out p Illiquid assets, typically 35 years investment p Hold, build or sell position based on relative value p Buy and hold strategy market price vs fundamental performance p Some influence on strategic business p Little influence on strategic business decisions but protection through decisions: often hold board seats seniority, security and covenants in the capital structure.
p Working in close partnership with management teams and or private equity sponsors Synergies p Fundamental credit analysis p Leverage local insights, expertise and relationships p Strong operational platform
