Overview At a Glance The BSS Group plc is a leading Domestic distributor to specialist trades.
Revenue 916.4m Our customers are industrial contractors, domestic Operating Profit 32.6m plumbers and heating Margin 3.6% engineers, independent Key Facts merchants and industrial end 322 PTS branches trading users.
Our branch based, sales 15 new PTS branches opened 11 F & P branches trading focused approach, supported PTS supply a wide range of customers from by excellent nationwide national contractors to sole trading plumbers and heating engineers.
logistics, ensures we deliver The PTS central buying team works closely with constantly high levels of leading manufacturers so that we can offer our customers the latest product innovations and the customer service.
best range of market leading brands at competitive prices.
With five regional distribution centres PTS is able to offer unrivalled local level of service backed up by a national support network.
Locally the We recognise that scale and branches provide a fast and efficient delivery either direct to the construction site or to the leadership brings competitive customers premises.
advantage and we aim to Merchant heating, plumbing and sanitaryware is supplied through F & P Wholesale F & P providing break into adjacent markets national coverage.
The needs of independent plumbers merchants and appliance outlets are and take BSS to a higher level serviced through daily deliveries and competitive pricing.
Each centre has a team of knowledgeable of revenue and profitability.
staff ready to assist customers.
Directing Heating Spares DHS, a leading wholesaler and distributor of spare parts to the heating industry, was acquired in April 2009 and now forms part of the Domestic Division.
Operating profit prior to amortisation of acquired intangibles of 0.5m 2009: 0.4m and reorganisation costs of 0.8m 2009: 0.6m www.
co. uk The Business Review contains forward looking statements with respect to the financial www.
com condition, results, operations and business of the BSS Group plc.
co. uk and forecasts include risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward statements.
2 2 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 3 3 Industrial Specialist Revenue 332.4m Revenue 103.6m Operating Profit 25.1m Operating Profit 2.0m Margin 7.6% Margin 1.9% Key Facts Key Facts 63 BSS Industrial branches trading 29 B & H branches trading 2 drainage branches opened B & H trade counters 16 implant drainage branches opened relaunched as Tooltastic 10 UGS branches trading B & H stocked range of 60,000 products The industrial, commercial and process industry, construction and maintenance markets are serviced Buck & Hickman B & H is one of the UKs leading through BSS Industrial in the UK and Ireland.
distributors of tools, maintenance and health and Customers are serviced across all industrial sectors.
The product range includes 23,000 items which are marketed under Buck & Hickmans Specialist teams provide technical sales support Roebuck own brand.
Buck & Hickman offers a and a nationwide branch network is supported range of industry leading value added solutions by a Central Logistics team as well as a National including Vendor Managed Inventory Distribution Centre based at Lutterworth, and eProcurement.
Leicestershire, which provides daily delivery services to all branches.
Price Tools and Birchwood Products merged in April 2009 to form Birchwood Price Tools BPT The National Tube Distribution Centre at Coventry a wholesaler of power tools and accessories, offers a unique solution for linear distribution.
It is hand tools, safety wear and general consumables designed to store around 400 linear tube products to established dealers across sectors covering both in stainless and carbon steel, plastic, cast iron trade and industry as well as being a designer and and copper, and is supported by a fleet of global importer of equipment for construction and articulated vehicles.
related industries, primarily focused on the repair and Specialist brands Pegler & Louden, AMS, Austin maintenance sector.
The company has a reputation Stroud, Havelock Controls and Manor Plastics for creating innovative product solutions under enhance our service offering to the industrial repair, the brand names of Scruffs, Van Vault, Defender, maintenance and improvement RMI markets.
BPTs customers include tool hire, builders merchants, electrical wholesalers and Underground Supplies UGS, acquired on tool retailers.
5 February 2010, is a leading UK distributor for the supply of underground drainage and civil engineering Operating profit prior to amortisation of acquired intangibles materials to the construction industry offering a vast 1.4m 2009: 1.5m and redundancy costs 1.0m 2009: 0.1m range of products and technical support to civil www.
com contractors and main builders.
com Operating profit prior to amortisation of acquired intangibles of 0.4m 2009: 0.3m and redundancy costs of 1.2m 2009: 0.3m www.
com 2 2 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 3 3
