S R E M O T S U C S O C I E T Y S R E I L P P U FAST READ RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Our approach to Responsible Business is a vital enabler of our corporate vision of becoming our customers most trusted partner.
What being a Responsible Business means to us Focusing on the issues that matter The diagram below summarises our evolving to our stakeholders approach to Responsible Business and shows During 2010, we conducted a significant piece the nine material issue areas discussed in the of stakeholder research which helped us identify Responsible Business section.
nine material issue areas that will form the basis of our approach to Responsible Business for the future.
These material issue areas are: Q Governance and risk systems Q Responsible marketing and selling Q Customer service Supply Financial Q Our employees chain crime Q Indirect impact of investments Q Supply chain Q Financial crime Direct Q Community impact environmental Customer Q Direct environmental impact impact service GOVERNANCE Responsible Business highlights from 2010 AND RISK Q First full year of operation of the Responsible SYSTEMS Community Responsible Business Committee which oversaw: impact marketing Responsible Business Policy rolled out and selling across the Group Responsible Investment taskforce set up Q Conducted stakeholder research into Indirect Our investment employees responsible business issues impact Q 13.6 million invested in our local communities focusing on financial education, enterprise development and sustainable community development.
For example: 4.6m through the Masisizane Fund including micro-finance 2.7m spent through the five Old Mutual Foundations.
More detail on our approach to Responsible Business can be found in the Risk and Responsibility section on pages 118 to 129.
20 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 S E M P L O Y E E T S N E M N O R I V N E Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information FAST READ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our approach to governance is underpinned by our values of integrity, respect, accountability and pushing beyond boundaries.
Our approach to Corporate Governance The Board of Directors as a whole is responsible to Our approach to governance is underpinned the Companys shareholders for corporate by the Groups values of integrity, respect, accountability governance and is committed to achieving high and pushing beyond boundaries.
standards in this area through an appropriate mix of checks and balances.
This takes due account of How our approach to governance is guided by our values the UK Corporate Governance Code and other Integrity We require integrity of the Groups businesses in all their external expectations, such as the guidelines activities, including the way in which their boards of directors issued by institutional investors and their operate and report upwards.
Respect Respect is reected in the dynamics between the centre and the operating units and the manner in which problems, During 2010, we have rolled out our new Group when they do arise, are dealt with.
Operating Model, which seeks to clarify and enhance our governance processes within the Accountability Accountability lies at the heart of all good governance context of a strategic controller model of oversight systems and is vital for the prompt escalation of matters of our various operations around the world.
This and how they are then addressed.
has replaced the more decentralised system of Pushing beyond We aim to empower our operating units to push beyond governance under which the Group previously boundaries boundaries and to be responsive and innovative to serve operated and establishes clear principles of customers needs without entangling them in unnecessary delegation and escalation that are designed to red tape.
provide appropriate levels of assurance about the control environment, while retaining exibility for our businesses to operate efficiently.
More detail on our approach to Corporate Governance can be found in the Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters section on pages 132 to 151.
Old Mutual plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
