Chairmans statement The Group has made excellent progress towards achieving its strategic objectives in the year ended 30 September 2010.
Strong customer retention and an improving credit performance contributed to a significant increase in profits and strong cash generation which, together with a return to new lending at the end of the year and further new initiative activity, have placed the Group in a strong position for continued growth in shareholder value.
During the year ended 30 September 2010 the Group earned a profit of 71.8 million before taxation and after exceptional gains on debt repurchase and the charges for impairment and losses on fair valued hedge instruments 2009: 54.3 million, an increase of 32.2%.
Underlying profit, before exceptional and fair value items, increased by 45.9% to 66.1 million for the year 2009: 45.3 million.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Earnings per share were 18.3p 2009: 13.9p, the increase from The Groups free cash flow has been strong during the year, last year reflecting the improved profits earned by the Group.
leading to an increase in free cash balances to 147.8 million 30 September 2009: 84.0 million after investments totalling During the year the Groups activities have been managed in 29.0 million in respect of the purchase of a portfolio of buy-to-let accordance with three clear strategic objectives: positioning the loans at the end of the financial year and the purchase of the business to enable new lending to recommence when funding Groups securitisation debt.
These balances, together with net capacity returns to the market at commercial terms: the cash receipts going forward, will support the Groups future protection of the embedded value of the business by close lending and portfolio purchase activities.
management of the loan portfolio: and the development of new sources of recurring income using the skills and resources of Consistent with our aim to follow a progressive dividend policy, the business.
the Company has declared a final dividend for the year of 2.4p per share which, when added to the interim dividend, makes a Excellent progress has been made in all three areas during the total dividend of 3.6p per share.
The Company sees opportunities year.
In September we announced the Groups return to new going forward to deploy capital in support of our new lending lending, following the signing of a 200.0 million warehouse activities, which should grow over time.
Additionally, facility and the recovery in the mortgage backed securities market opportunities exist to acquire loan portfolios, through Idem during the year.
The loan portfolio has continued to perform well, Capital, as banks and other financial institutions fide-leverage in with arrears steadily reducing over the year and redemptions the coming years.
The Company will keep under review the running at low levels.
New sources of income, developed over appropriate level of capital for the business to meet its operational the past two years, performed well, a further portfolio acquisition requirements and strategic development objectives.
was completed at the end of the period and the management of additional third party loan accounts was assumed during the year.
We will be proposing at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting The opportunities for further progress in these initiatives have a special resolution seeking authority from shareholders for the increased in recent months.
Company to purchase up to 29.8 million of its own shares 10% of the issued share capital.
It is customary for companies to seek In view of the results achieved and in line with the progressive such authority but we would not expect to utilise the authority dividend policy outlined in prior years, the Board has declared a unless, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, we final dividend of 2.4p per share 2009: 2.2p which, when added consider that to do so would enhance earnings per share and to the interim dividend of 1.2p, gives a total dividend of 3.6p per would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Given share for the year 2009: 3.3p, an increase of 9.1%.
Subject to the operational and strategic opportunities described above, the approval at the Annual General Meeting on 10 February 2011, the Board has no current intention of using this authority.
dividend will be paid on 14 February 2011, by reference to a record date of 14 January 2010.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 5
