In the statutory consolidated income statement, these items are included in total income.
2 Pro forma operating profit loss excludes amortisation of purchased intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals, bonus tax, gains on pensions curtailment, Asset Protection Scheme credit default swap - fair value changes and write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets.
On a statutory basis, fair value of own debt is included in total income.
3 Pro forma loss before tax excludes write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets.
4 Pro forma cost:income ratio represents operating expenses excluding amortisation of purchased intangibles, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, bonus tax and gains on pensions curtailment expressed as a percentage of total income excluding fair value of own debt, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals, Asset Protection Scheme credit default swap - fair value changes and after netting insurance claims.
5 Adjusted loss per ordinary and B share is based on earnings from continuing operations adjusted for fair value of own debt, purchased intangibles amortisation, integration and restructuring costs, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals, gains on pensions curtailment, bonus tax, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets and Asset Protection Scheme credit default swap - fair value changes.
6 Funded balance sheet represents total assets less derivatives.
Overview of results Pro forma results have been prepared to include only those business The results of RFS Holdings B. V. the entity that acquired ABN AMRO, units of RBS N. V. that will be retained by RBS and to reclassify certain are fully consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
The interests of non-operating items.
The basis of preparation of the pro forma results is the State of the Netherlands and Santander in RFS Holdings are included detailed on page 51. in non-controlling interests.
Legal separation of ABN AMRO Bank N. V. took place on 1 April 2010.
As a result, RBS presents the interests of its Consortium Members in ABN AMRO as discontinued operations and has re-presented prior periods accordingly.
