Sustainability The Princes Trust We sponsored the launch of The Princes Trusts first start-up guide book Make It Happen.
Years of expertise and knowledge have been distilled into this highly practical book, designed to get young entrepreneurs started.
Our sponsorship will ensure that The Trust will be able to give a free copy to every young person they start up in business for the next three years, around 6,000 copies in total.
The Group Community Cashback scheme allows employees to claim that they are great ambassadors for the Group.
Citizens Colleagues cash for the charities they support by volunteering or fundraising in their in Action also recognises community involvement and provides the own time.
In 2010, 4,300 awards totalling 1.2 million were given to over opportunity for colleagues to take a three month sabbatical to serve 2,500 charities.
We continue to match donations our employees make to as a volunteer on a longer-term project.
charity via their salary, and this year we supported over 3,000 charities directly in this way.
Overall, more than 39,500 employees gave their skills, time and money to make a difference in the communities that we operate in.
The Group We also launched a new recognition scheme in 2010 for our employees supported those efforts financially and by giving employees almost Community Stars.
We give 65,500 per year to support the fantastic work 170,000 hours off work to volunteer.
employees do for the causes they are passionate about and to recognise Highlights of how we focus action across our businesses Citizenship and environmental Fair banking Supporting enterprise Employee engagement Safety and security sustainability Products The Group Customer Charter set RBS supports the Business We provide a suite of competitive Our free online data protection Since 2006, we have provided and services out 14 clear commitments to our Finance Taskforce and its employment policies, training and software, Rapport, currently more finance to wind power UK retail customers in 2010. measures to increase investment, development opportunities and a protects 4.6 million online projects than any other type of Within these, we set ourselves 25 provide more business mentors bespoke benefits package and customers from fraud.
specific and stretching goals and and introduce new lending provide support when it is needed we achieved 20 of these outright principles for SMEs.
through our Employee Assistance in the first 6 months.
The Citizens CollegeSaver Our Technical Assistance We measure engagement through Customers have access to Our Business Mentor account rewards customers who programme in India facilitated our employee opinion survey and services such as SMS text alerts Environmental scheme continues save money for a child with a work with 37 MFIs across 13 take action in response to to inform them of any activity on to provide expert environmental $1,000 bonus plus the accrued states in India, increasing the employee feedback.
their accounts, or when there has advice to customers who need it, interest when the child turns 18. reach of microfinance to more been fraudulent activity.
The enrolment age was extended than 100,000 additional poor from 6 to 12 years in 2010. families.
Corporate We work with a range of In order to be able to support We have nine charity partners: The Security and Risk team work BTCV is an environmental charity partnerships Community Development Finance a wide selection of different BTCV, Prince's Trust, Oxfam, closely with authorities to share and one of our nine charity Institutions and Credit Unions as business clients, we work with Barnardos, Fairbridge, Marie information and help prevent partners that provides part of the Trusted Partner partners to bridge the gap in Curie, Macmillan, Help the financial crime.
This includes a volunteering opportunities for programme.
funding for organisations such as Hospices and Cancer Research in focused intelligence sharing employees to get involved in.
partnership with Greater Manchester Police, UK.
We worked with the National We support youth enterprise We work with partners that During 2010 we developed a We are actively involved in the Housing Federation to launch a through sponsoring the Princes support our Diversity & Inclusion global occupation health management of the United new affordable credit provider Trust Enterprise Programme, the programme including Stonewall, programme in partnership with Nations Global Compact and pilot, My Home Finance MHF in Princes Scottish Youth Business Employers Forums on Belief: Age: International SOS to review the Equator Principles initiatives.
MHF provides loans to the Trust and Youth Business and Disability, Opportunity Now, occupational health service financially excluded.
International in Hong Kong, Working Families and Race for provision across our international We are sponsoring Climate week France and Russia.
Opportunity in the UK and Asia business.
in the UK, a national awareness Network DIAN.
Employee In 2010, 774 employees helped In 2010, 380 employees Our Group Employee Volunteering A number of employees get We have over 600 environmental contribution to deliver our MoneySense volunteered for The Princes Trust, programme engaged 39,500 involved in Safety, Health and champions in the Group helping programme throughout the UK raising a total of over 250,000. employees in 2010 who were Wellbeing programmes.
to engage colleagues and make by devoting their time to give given over 24,000 days off to a difference to our carbon lessons in schools.
make a contribution to the causes footprint at a local level.
supported by our nine charity partners.
Operations and We use a number of third-party Through our supply chain we We aim to extend our employee Every year we review our Our ethical code for suppliers supply chain organisations to assist with credit spend nearly 8.5 billion each engagement activities as far as suppliers to ensure that the sets out our commitments to checking, helping to ensure that year on goods and services, possible to temporary employees appropriate controls are in place working with openness and we lend responsibly.
of which 6.2 billion is spent in and contractors working in our to ensure customer information is integrity, which we also expect the UK.
