Directors Report: Business Overview Group at a Glance Underlying sales by division UK & Ireland 4,013.5m Nordics 2,093.7m Other International 1,503.2m e-commerce 921.2m Our brands Description Highlights Currys is the UKs largest specialist The UK & Ireland operations are the focus of the most significant electrical retailer.
changes under the Renewal and Transformation plan.
156 stores had been transformed by the end of the financial year, 12 of PC World is the UK and Irelands biggest which are Megastores under the Currys and combined Currys specialist computing retailer.
We operate from High Street stores, Superstores The multichannel offering provides customers with the convenience and Megastores.
Currently most of our stores of online and accessibility of stores, particularly through the operate under one brand.
We are opening reserve&collect facility.
combined 2-in-1 Currys & PC World stores, bringing the benefits of both brands in one Improvements are being made to the services we offer to convenient location to our customers.
customers with a wider range, including online storage, installation and repair.
We now offer the UKs leading delivery and installation Dixons Travel stores are based at airports and operation with options ranging from next day delivery in three hour the Eurotunnel terminal.
time slots to free delivery, as well as a free recycling option.
TechGuys is the UKs leading help and support Dixons Travel is expanding its brand overseas with operations now open service for electrical and computing products.
in Rome airport and is identifying further opportunities across Europe.
Elkjp is the leading specialist electrical retailer Elkjp is famous for customer service with an efficient centralised across the Nordics.
It has been able to leverage its leading market positions across the Nordics and grow market share during the year.
Elkjp and Lefdal stores operate in Norway, El Giganten in Sweden and Denmark and It is reformatting all its stores as well as rolling out Megastores Gigantti in Finland.
across its markets with 16 now open.
Kotsovolos is Greeces leading specialist Kotsovolos, with its strong market position, has been improving electrical retailer.
the offer for customers while controlling costs and stock in a difficult economic environment.
In Italy, we operate UniEuro electrical stores with some as combined 2-in-1 UniEuro & The turnaround of the operations in Italy has made significant PC City stores.
progress with an improved store portfolio, better stock availability and an improving sales and margin performance.
In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, we operate under the Electro World brand.
The operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia have been streamlined and are now well positioned to exploit a recovery In Spain, PC City is the leading specialist in consumer demand in those markets.
The operations in Turkey continue to go from strength to strength.
In Turkey, we operate the Electro World brand It has now launched a franchise operation to provide an additional with a local joint venture partner.
opportunity for growth in that market.
PIXmania is a pan-European electrical e-tailer PIXmania has been growing its market positions across Europe operating in 26 countries.
while leveraging the benefits of being part of the DSGi Group.
co. uk is one of the leading UK electrical Dixons.
co. uk was relaunched on the PIXmania e-merchant platform e-tailers.
during the year enabling it to offer customers an improved online shopping experience.
12 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 e-commerce Other International Nordics UK & Ireland Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Countries we operate in Stores and online presence Online presence only Stores only Average selling Underlying sales Selling space area per store Websites million Stores 000 sq ft sq ft Employees www.
co. uk 921.2 1,413 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 13
