Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 2 OVERVIEW Founded in 1978, Domino has grown to become a leading supplier of coding solutions utilising a full range of products and technologies.
Through our extensive global network, Domino provides customers with reliable, innovative and cost effective solutions and enjoys an outstanding reputation for customer service and support.
DOMINO AT A GLANCE 4 OUR PRINTING SOLUTIONS PRIMARY PACKAGING SECONDARY PACKAGING Domino businesses provide a wide range of Printing onto cartons, cardboard products utilising ink jet, laser and thermal boxes, trays and other secondary NORTH AMERICA printing technologies for product and package levels of packaging, the Group offers coding and marking.
Continuous Ink Jet CIJ a range of products under the Domino, 20% brands include Domino, Citronix and Alpha Dot and Mectec brands aimed at Wiedenbach.
These products provide reliable, providing high quality barcodes and graphics versatile printing capability operating in a wide as well as standard alphanumeric coding.
The range of production environments and Domino range includes Drop on Demand applications.
Laser products sold under the DOD ink jet technologies using both valve Domino brand use both gas and solid state and piezo technologies alongside M-Series laser technologies to meet the exacting Print and Apply Labelling Machines PALM requirements of parts marking in addition to for volume applications.
The Mectec brand of general packaging applications.
Thermal PALM products additionally provides solutions Transfer Overprinting TTO products offered to meet more complex applications including by both Domino and Easyprint are typically larger scale end of line pallet labelling.
Both used where products are enclosed in flexible Domino and Mectec PALM systems offer RFID packaging such as pouches and wrappers.
enabled solutions for product traceability.
Thermal Ink Jet TIJ products are the latest DIGITAL PRINTING SOLUTIONS 5 addition to the Groups product range.
APS Dominos Digital Printing solutions meet the SOUTH AMERICA Apsolute printers are sold alongside Domino needs of the binding, finishing, plastic card and brand TIJ G-Series products and provide newspaper industries to print addresses, 4% customers with high print quality offering both barcodes and numbers onto products at very alphanumeric and machine readable barcode high speed and near letter quality.
Domino and similar coding capability.
offers both single jet and binary CIJ solutions alongside DOD and TIJ based products.
Digital Complementing our printing capability, Purex Printing applications also often require data air purification systems are offered to provide management and line control.
Dominos Editor cost effective extraction of fumes and particles GT controller solutions provide the perfect created by the laser coding process.
complement to our printers offering customers full control of all aspects of their printing and finishing operations.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 3 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 1 3 5 UNITED KINGDOM ASIA PACIFIC SOUTH AMERICA The UK is the Domino Groups global headquarters Domino has subsidiary operations in China, India and Group companies have a network of well established including its principal manufacturing sites as well as its South Korea with an established base of distributors distributors providing sales and service support global R&D operations.
The UK sales and service serving other regional markets.
Products destined for throughout South America.
The Groups distributors business also operates out of the Cambridge site.
the Asia Pacific region are manufactured in Dominos operate to common standards which means that facility in Shanghai, China.
Domino also has multinational companies and OEMs are assured 2 manufacturing facilities in Delhi, India which serve the of a high standard of support wherever they may EUROPE local market.
The Group has subsidiary offices in France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain, Portugal, Sweden and 4 6 Denmark.
Elsewhere, customers are supported NORTH AMERICA MIDDLE EAST through a network of well established distributors.
The Domino Group is well established in North Dominos Middle East operations, based in Dubai, America with subsidiaries in Canada, USA and Mexico.
support local sales in the United Arab Emirates and In addition to full sales and service coverage across Dominos network of distributors throughout the North America, the Group has fluids and printer Middle East and Africa.
2 manufacturing facilities in the USA.
1 3 UNITED KINGDOM EUROPE 6% 40% 6 MIDDLE EAST ASIA PACIFIC 6% 24% SOUTH AMERICA Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 4 W E H E L P O U R C U S TO M E R S TO I D E N T I F Y THEIR PRODUCTS B E H I N D T H E S C E N E S Dominos TTO printer the new V120i is ideal for goods packaged using form, fill and seal machines.
It is possible to print clear high resolution codes, using a variety of character sets, as part of the production process.
The V120i offers high quality coding while being the most cost effective solution for flexible packaging in its class.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 5 Business drivers EXTENSIVE PRODUCT RANGE Domino offers customers a wide range of solutions to meet their coding needs and continues to invest in R&D, fuelling innovation and new capabilities.
In 2010, the Group increased its R&D spend by 36% and introduced a new range of primary package coding and marking printers, which were launched in November 2010.
The A320i, one in a series of new product launches, deploys intelligent Technology such that it only needs to have its consumables replenished to maintain optimum performance.
Sectors FOOD A wide range of coding solutions including Ink IP rated equipment for wash down Jet, Laser, Thermal Transfer, Outer Case Coding environments and Print and Apply Labelling Versatile printer capabilities, integrating Engineered solutions for extensive range seamlessly into existing lines of packers, cartoners and bundlers Fully integrated solutions with industry leading OEMs High reliability and consistent code quality Constantly variable data real-time capability including batch codes, expiry dates, sequential and unique numbering Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 6 B E H I N D T H E S C E N E S The D-Series laser system produces unlimited lines of text in any orientation and in many fonts and sizes.
It is equally suitable for graphics and 2D data matrix codes.
All are permanently applied to a wide range of materials from low to high production line speeds.
TO INFORM AND ATTRACT CONSUMERS Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 7 Business drivers S U C C E S S F U L A C q U I S I T I O N OF CAPABILITY In addition to developing its own products, Domino Mectec is a leader in the market for Print has successfully increased its range of customer and Apply Labelling Machinery, with a diverse solutions through the acquisition of new capability.
product range used in the labelling of outer cases and pallets.
The aps group is a technological leader in the development of ground-breaking thermal ink jet Purex International Ltd develop and manufacture printers which allow maintenance free coding & fume extraction and purification systems for a marking onto porous & non-porous surfaces.
wide variety of industries including laser marking and engraving, soldering processes and ink Citronix specialises in the design, manufacture jet printing.
and distribution of continuous ink jet printing technology for applying identifying marks, sell-by Wiedenbach Apparatebau GmbH is one dates, and lot date codes to almost any kind of of the worlds leading suppliers of sector material or surface.
specific continuous ink jet printers and special application solutions.
Sectors PHARMACEUTIC AL HEALTH & BEAUTY quality, safety and efficiency Capability to enhance the character of products in a market sensitive to the needs of design and Fast code changeover brand appearance Real-time information Near letter quality coding capability with options for small or discrete codes or invisible Machine-readable codes marks to assist in brand protection Specifically designed for validation Reliable results under challenging conditions requirements such as GMP Supporting personalisation and short run Solutions to the problems of diversion manufacturing, to enable savings on inventory and counterfeiting and packaging costs Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 8 TO HELP THEM CONFORM TO REGULATORY STANDARDS Business drivers EXPOSURE TO GLOBAL MARKET GROWTH Domino has a strong foothold in key markets across Our global network of subsidiary and distributor the world making it a truly global company.
Our sales channels helps diversify geographic risk and presence is particularly strong in emerging markets positions us to capitalise on opportunities wherever where we are well placed to capture new business.
Group Turnover m 350 300 250 200 150 Sectors C ABLES & EXTRUSION CONSTRUCTION Rugged products enabling reliable performance Flexible solutions to meet wide range of in demanding environments applications and coding requirements Ability to code onto a diverse range of materials IP rated equipment for dusty and wet environments Flexibility to print meter marking and counters Consistent coding quality at the highest Innovation in specialist fluids line speeds Non contact printing on uneven surfaces Print real-time and variable data, graphics and barcodes 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 9 B E H I N D T H E S C E N E S Opening up a number of new industrial applications to diverse substrates including wood and plasterboard, the C6000V plus prints down from above the production line rather than from the side.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 10 A N D T R A C K T H E M T H R O U G H THE MANUFACTURING PROCESS.
B E H I N D T H E S C E N E S Laser coding solutions, integrated with beverage production operations, provide full traceability within the supply chain.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 11 Business drivers STRONG AFTERMARKET REVENUES The Group has a large installed base of equipment, spare parts, provides a resilient income stream and operated by a wide range of customers across a stable base for the business.
In 2010 over 60% of diverse market sectors.
Our strong customer service Group revenues were generated from aftermarket capability, backed up by proprietary consumables and products and services.
Two thirds of revenue from consumerables 66% Sectors BEVERAGE High speed, reliable coding for 24 hour operation Wide range of inks for wet surfaces Traceability, anti-counterfeit and tamper evident Comprehensive range of laser coders for glass technologies and plastics Low service, high performance printers IP rated Options for full integration with production for wash down environments control equipment
