at a glance Strategy for growth Key strengths EnQuest believes that it benefits from the following EnQuest intends to deliver sustainable growth in key strengths: shareholder value by focusing on exploiting its existing reserves, commercialising and developing discoveries, converting contingent resources into reserves and Operational and technical expertise pursuing selective acquisitions.
Operatorship and high equity interest EnQuest believes that its assets offer material organic growth opportunities, driven by exploitation of current Strong balance sheet infrastructure on the United Kingdom Continental Shelf UKCS and the development of low risk near field Cash generation from existing operations opportunities, rather than exploitation of high risk exploration prospects.
EnQuest believes that the combination of the Groups EnQuest intends to focus on increasing production through technical skills, its operational scale and financial strength its existing assets and through selective acquisitions aiming will position the Group to deliver on its strategy and take for medium-term production growth of 10% per annum.
advantage of the production and development opportunities in the UKCS.
EnQuests management has considerable EnQuest intends to achieve its strategy through: experience of working in the UKCS region and a proven track record of identifying valuable assets and developing Having geographic focus and producing oil and gas, using innovative and cost efficient solutions.
Pro-actively operating its assets EnQuest believes that the UKCS represents a significant hydrocarbon basin in a low-risk region, which continues to Maximising production, reserves and cash flow benefit from an extensive installed infrastructure base and generation from the Groups existing assets skilled labour.
Utilising the Groups operational, execution, subsurface and integration skills Becoming a development partner of choice in the UKCS Selective acquisitions Delivering balanced growth Delivering growth 15 to 24 billion Boe projected reserves and resources is the figure remaining in the UKCS: as estimated in the Oil & Gas UK 2010 Economic Report Focus on hubs Near field appraisal and exploration Business development 2 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 20 14 overview business review governance financial statements Principal assets EnQuests principal assets as at the end of 2010 were its interests in the Heather, Broom, Thistle, Deveron, West Don and Don Southwest producing oilfields and further development opportunities in the Ardmore, Crawford, Southwest Heather, Peik & Burdock, Elke & Pilot, Scolty and Cairngorm discoveries.
EnQuest has working interests in 26 production licences covering 34 blocks or part blocks in the UKCS, including those licences offered to EnQuest in 2010 as part of the 26th licensing round.
EnQuest is the operator of 21 of its 26 licences.
UK Continental Shelf Respective EnQuest Working 01 No.
EnQuests unitised equity for Peik as of 31 December 2010 is 17.66%.
