GROUP HIGHLIGHTS Go-Ahead is one of the UKs leading providers of bus and rail services.
Our strategy is to deliver high quality services in dense urban markets.
GO-AHEAD A GOOD PLACETO BE...
Focused on bus and rail Local high quality services We have made good strategic progress over the financial year.
We operate a devolved management structure which provides a We retained our Southern franchise and launched the UKs first strong local focus on our passengers and high quality domestic high speed rail service in Southeastern: disposed of the bus and rail services.
majority of our loss making aviation services division: invested over Responsible operator 35 million in UK bus acquisitions and started a yellow school bus Operating our companies in a safe, socially and environmentally joint venture in North America.
responsible manner is a vital part of our business.
It is what we do Fundamental sector strengths on a day-to-day basis and is deeply embedded across our Public transport plays a key role in building a strong economy, reducing organisation at all levels.
traffic congestion and air pollution and helps to promote social inclusion.
Delivering shareholder value There is strong political support for public transport and a clear recognition We are committed to delivering shareholder value through our that the private sector is best placed to deliver and grow these services.
Maintaining the amount of dividend per Geographically well located share through the economic cycle, including those times when Most of our operations are in the South East of the UK.
This area is earnings may reduce, is a high priority for us and is supported by forecast to have the highest economic and population growth rates our strong balance sheet and cash generation.
We have also started a small yellow school bus joint venture in North America and will cautiously assess further opportunities in this market.
Includes interim dividend paid and final proposed dividend.
# Restated to exclude our ground handling and cargo operations.
The CO2 conversion factors used are in accordance with the most recent Department for Energy and Climate Change guidelines 2009.
The 2008 figure has been restated due to updated rail consumption data.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 1 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
