Values and highlights OUR GOAL At Sainsburys we will deliver an ever improving quality shopping experience for our customers with great products at fair prices.
We will exceed customer expectations for healthy, safe, fresh and tasty food, making their lives easier every day.
Freefrom: As a leading food retailer we focus on being 100 new and improved Freefrom lines making 1.
BEST FOR the range 236 in total.
Be Good to Yourself: The Be Good FOOD AND to Yourself healthy food range was relaunched in January 2010 with 60 new HEALTH and improved lines, bringing the total to around 250 lines.
Fairtrade: With sales of over... thats why were so committed to... 218 million, we are the worlds largest retailer of Fairtrade by value.
SOURCING fide velopment groups: During 2009 10 WITH INTEGRITY we extended Sainsburys successful Development Group model to beef, pork, poultry, lamb, cheese and egg suppliers.
Green to the Core: And because we source from around the world and sell in the UK we have to show A rating in the Green to the Core?
RE SPECT FOR OUR Store environmental innovation: We continue to lead on store environmental innovation ENVIRONMENT with our eco-store programme growing larger in 2009 10 with new store openings.
Active Kids: To date we have donated over... and play an active role in the communities that we serve 86 million to schools and clubs.
Spor t Relief: Customers and colleagues 4.
MAKING A POSITIVE helped us to donate a record 5 million for Sport Relief 2010, more than doubling the DIFFERENCE TO OUR COMMUNITY 2.3 million raised for Sport Relief 2008.
Over All this is possible through the commitment of our colleagues so we make Sainsburys 80 million bonus payment will be shared between 127,000 colleagues.
A G REAT PLACE You Can: around 9,150 colleagues have been provided with job opportunities, skills and qualifications through our You Can TO WORK programme.
And thats why we believe OUR VALUES MAKE US DIFFERENT 2 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Values and highlights
