Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 02 Iraq Jordan lamprell at a glance Iran Lamprell has three facilities located in Qatar the UAE in the Arabian Gulf, one of Egypt the most important oil and gas Saudi Arabia regions in the world.
UAE Oman Sudan Yemen Jebel Ali Hamriyah Lamprells Jebel Ali facility was This portside facility of 335,000m purpose built in 2002 and is one has direct quayside access, and of the most modern in the region.
primarily undertakes jackup rig It is located in the Jebel Ali Free upgrade and refurbishment Zone and is 25km from the projects together with new build centre of Dubai.
projects and oilfield engineering related works.
The facility occupies an area of 178,900m that includes more The core workforce at this facility than 16,000m of covered work as with both the Sharjah and the spaces with internal overhead Jebel Ali facilities workforce is cranes suitable for carrying out supplemented from the local fabrication and assembly labour market when required activities under cover.
to meet the demands of specific projects.
The covered areas also contain the latest welding and CNC Hamriyah includes a deepwater cutting machinery.
This protected berthing quay wall 1,439m in work environment is cooler, safer length and 9m deep which and more productive than an enables Lamprell to work on outside location, and it allows the multiple rigs and simultaneously production of a higher quality undertake new build product at less cost.
was designed to allow optimum production based on a clear and logical flow of material through the facility.
In addition to the covered fabrication areas it has extensive open fabrication areas that are equipped with gantry and mobile crawler cranes company business corporate financial overview review governance statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 03 Iraq Jordan Iran Qatar Egypt Saudi Arabia UAE Oman Sudan Yemen Sharjah Lamprells facility in Sharjah is located in Port Khalid, a designated free zone, and it has 360m of direct quayside access at which many of Lamprells jackup rig upgrade and refurbishment projects are executed.
The facility has a total surface area of 36,000m that includes 28,000m of open fabrication areas that are serviced by mobile crawler cranes and tower cranes, as well as 3,500m of covered fabrication areas.
Lamprells senior management team and the service departments such as finance, human resources and procurement are all located at the Sharjah facility.
For more information visit: www.
