Melrose Industries PLC 28 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Business review Energy State-of-the-art manufacturing equipment Investment has been made in a new state-of-the-art plasma and oxy cutter at the Brush manufacturing facility in Loughborough, UK.
This machine is used to manufacture heavy steel plates as part of the manufacturing process to produce stator frames and can cut through steel plate in excess of 100mm in thickness with a high degree of accuracy.
Brush Turbogenerators Turbogenerators is a late cycle business www.
eu and as such macro-economic factors Turbogenerators is the typically impact new machine order intake worlds largest independent with a lag of approximately 18 months.
manufacturer of electricity The global financial crisis has created generating equipment for the delays in funding approvals and uncertainty in investment decisions Total revenue power generation, industrial, affecting the order intake levels of Brushs Year ended 31December 2013 oil & gas and offshore sectors.
These factors all had a subsequent impact on market From its four plants in the UK, Czech 350.1m levels during the first half of 2013 and are Republic, Netherlands and US it designs, 2012: 371.6m anticipated to do so in 2014. manufactures and services turbogenerators, principally in the 10 MW to 250 MW range, for both gas and steam turbine 1 30m Headline operating profit applications and supplies a globally Year ended 31December 2013 Capital investment to produce generators diverse customer base.
primarily for the Chinese market 73.1m In addition, Brush designs and Whilst the turbogenerator market in manufactures system and power general is believed to be circa 35% down, 2012: 77.9m transformers under the brand name Brush managed to outperform the market Brush Transformers Transformers with generator sales down just 17%.
This and also produces a wide range of indoor performance has continued to include a Proportion of Group revenue and outdoor medium voltage AC DC higher than normal proportion of smaller Year ended 31December 2013 switchgear under the Hawker Siddeley machines, with unit sales just 4% down 1.
Elster Gas Switchgear HSS brand name.
Elster Electricity Harrington Generators International HGI 3.
Energy is a specialist UK based small generator Brush has continued its extensive capital 5.
Lifting manufacturer supplying the construction, investment programme across all of its 4 military, telecoms and rail sectors.
units, focused on efficiency improvement, state of the art engineering machinery and 3 production processes as well as product 2 development.
These benefits are delivering positive results.
1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 29 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report bringincreased demand for the European The HSS business had another strong Key strengths factories, to satisfy the demand during year with sales 6% ahead and operating thefactory build and into the long term profit 37% ahead of the previous year.
Expertise in the design and forkey sub-component manufacture.
The business was able to benefit from both manufacture of an extensive range of the restructuring programme in 2012 and high quality, 2 and 4 pole high voltage The turbogenerator plant in the the capital project to convert the factory generators and electric motors Netherlands had an improved year, layout to product flow lines.
New product Innovative design and developments benefiting from restructuring that took development remains a key priority for the place in 2012.
The industrial market for HSS business, with further enhancements Comprehensive and integrated these machines remains competitive and to the indoor AC Eclipse and AC DC rail aftermarket support tailored to further efficiency restructuring during 2014 network products a major focus.
meet customers needs will position this business to compete Switchgear and transformer more aggressively in the global market.
Revenue within the Transformers products in service with all UK businesshas improved by 5% year-onenergy supply authorities Investment in research and development year as we enter the fourth of the current continues at a strong pace in Brush with fiveyear OFGEM the UK Governments Hydropower generators to produce the introduction of uprated and new Office of Gas and Electricity Markets environmentally green energy products across its product lines.
The capital expenditure Generators and electric motors for of these developments resulted in the programmeapproved to reorganise the marine applications delivery, in the last quarter of 2013, of a production process and value engineer 200 MW turbogenerator for a project in the product isnearing completion: Strategically located around the world Colombia.
This is the largest air-cooled thishasresulted insignificant margin generator ever built by Brush.
Existing improvement andanother strong year Products generators in the range have had their ofgrowth for theTransformers business.
output and performance significantly Capital was approved to develop, Quality products and service increased as a result of the research and designand manufacture high voltage development programmes put in place by 132kV transformers, to support our power Power generation equipment from Brush.
This has led to new orders and the distribution customers in the UK and 10MVA to 300 MVA successful retention of existing business.
Synchronous motors, induction motors, submersible and traction motors The growth and development of the Outlook aftermarket business remained a key The medium to long-term growth Power management and priority, capitalising on the significant fleet prospects in power generation and in excitation systems of Brush machines in the market globally, particular the aero-derivative gas turbine Medium voltage AC and DC switchgear many of which are of an age to benefit market, where Brush has such a strong from lifetime extension activities, as well as leading position, remain positive.
This, Power and system transformers opportunities to use aftermarket expertise coupled with the additional growth Aftermarket servicing support on third party machines.
During the year available by entering the Chinese market spares lifetime extension the aftermarket business was separated and continued operational improvements, out into one global business unit within means the business is well positioned to Brush, to focus on this growth: this also benefit.
As stated above, the overall In addition to productivity-based allowed workshop facilities and service market dynamics remain challenging in the investments, Brush is proceeding with engineers to be managed more efficiently short term.
However, this will continue to theconstruction of a greenfield generator as one global resource.
Aftermarket be mitigated by growth in the aftermarket manufacturing plant near Shanghai, China.
contributed strongly to 2013, helping to business, aided by internal reorganisation, This 30million capital investment will mitigate a softer market for new machines, product development, continued produce generators primarily for the by launching various new serviceofferings.
The investment is being made in support of several of its The aftermarket workshop facility in international turbine customers, who theUS benefited from significant capital aresetting up manufacturing operations investment, increasing its efficiency and inChina to address this significant, capacity and thus its ability to address developing market.
The factory has thekey markets of the Americas, and commenced construction and is expected wascompleted in time for the important to deliver its first generator during the last autumn outage season.
As a result of all quarter of 2015.
Brush hasalready signed these initiatives, aftermarket order intake Precise Engineering a six year long-term purchase agreement was 34% above the previous year.
with one of its majorcustomers, Huadian Employees at the Brush facility in Loughborough, UK, carrying out the very GE Aero GasTurbineEquipment Company precise operation of threading a balanced LTD, forthesupply of generators from the rotor through the completed stator winding new factory.
In the short term this will ofa BDAX 62-170ER Turbogenerator.
