Melrose Industries PLC 22 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Business review Elster Gas Quality and safety are Elsters first priority Each Gas meter that leaves the production line is leakage tested.
This test is carried out in the highly automated assembly lineand is controlled by standardised touch screenpanels.
Elster Gas is a world leader Global revenues increased by over 5% in www.
There were strong performances in gas measurement and gas from the integrated Gas metering station safety control equipment, business, the new wholly owned Russian supplying a global customer plant and the US Perfection connections base in more than 110 countries.
Global demand for conventional gas meters remained robust, which Total revenue With one of the most extensive compensated for further delays in the roll Year ended 31December 2013 installed utility measurement out of Smart meters in Europe.
The control bases in the world and more equipment market saw strong demand for 688.9m than 75million gas metering residential heating products, although the 2 2012: 236.9m process heat market remained flat as devices deployed over the global steel production stagnated in 2013. last 10years alone, Elster Gas 1 products enable customers Headline operating profit Operating profit increased significantly Year ended 31December 2013 to efficiently measure, when compared to 2012, as the actions identified by the new management team manage andcontrol natural at acquisition started to take effect.
152.4m gas resources across the There has been a significant improvement 2 2012: 46.7m complete gas value chain.
within the North American businesses where operational improvements were From its four lead plants in Europe and implemented during the year.
This included Proportion of Group revenue theUS, coupled with sizeable subsidiary the closure of the in-house diecasting Year ended 31December 2013 operations in China, Malaysia, Russia operation at the Nebraska City facility.
andMexico, Elster Gas designs and 1.
Elster Gas 5 manufactures gas meters and related 2.
Elster Electricity Further good progress has also been 3.
Elster Water products for residential, commercial and made in rationalising the European 4.
In addition, the Elster manufacturing footprint, with production 5.
Lifting 4 Gas control equipment range of products of a number of products previously is used extensively by global customers in manufactured in Western Europe transferred both the midstream and downstream gas to the newly extended plant in Slovakia.
2 In addition, three sites were closed in 2013 and this strategy will continue to be 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
2 2012 figures for Elster relate only to the four month period post-acquisition.
Including the period in 2012 prior to acquisition Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 23 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Capital investment to support Smart meter Elster are also involved in the Smart growth will be committed as required.
residential gas meter programmes in the These investments will primarily be at our UK.
While overall progress in the UK has Osnabruck and Stara Tura facilities and been slower than expected, a number of will be phased as the Smart rollout in key milestones have recently been passed Europe gains momentum.
and there is an expectation that more significant progress will be made in 2014.
Outlook 75million Elster Gas end markets remain healthy Gas metering devices deployed over the last 10 years with order input in 2013 similar to that Proven, trusted metering solutions achieved in 2012.
When coupled with for the gas industry In 2013, there were four major new further planned operational and cost The introduction of new products and product launches, focused primarily at the improvements, Elster Gas should enjoy technologies requires a clear focus on commercial and industrial sector, which is another good performance in 2014. productivity, value stream and quality: this includes both the metrology and safety a key element in better positioning the aspects of gas measurement instruments.
business to exploit the projected long-term Akey element of this is the complete growth in its end markets.
In Italy, Elster traceability of all components over the entirevalue chain.
launched Themis Plus, the first commercial and industrial diaphragm meter in the world to measure, display and transmit billing data daily based on the standard volume of gas.
Until now, in the gas industry these functions have been carried out by separate devices.
Key strengths With proven excellence in engineering, sales and operational capability and a Best in Class approach to everything it does, Elster Gas is well positioned to exploit growth opportunities and to succeed as technology shifts towards Smart meter solutions.
In parallel, Elster Gas is expanding its global service network winning customer loyalty across the world.
Products Universal device for volume conversion, billing and system monitoring, with optional GSM GPRS modem used in diaphragm-turbine or rotary meters Semi-automatic production lines Rotary gas meter RABO for high The Elster Gas site at Lotte, Germany, features a highly automated production line measuring rates, compact dimensions with an annual capacity of 2 million gas meters.
In future, Elster Gass global manufacturing and high accuracy network will be managed from Lotte.
The implementation of the EU directive to replace the majority of existing meters with Smartmeters by 2022 is expected to result in demand Encal 3000 gas Chromotograph for for up to 70 million Smart meters.
The Lotte site is increasing its operational capacity to meetthis demand.
Biogas analysis applications Chekker mechanical index for diaphragm gas meters with checksum 70million generation to cross-check data for Expected demand for Smart meters by 2022 accurate billing
