Melrose Industries PLC 24 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Business review Elster Electricity Smart metering solutions Through Elster Electricitys portfolio of innovative and trusted Smart metering solutions, Elsters products help utilities globally to improve energy efficiency through accurate measurement ofconsumption.
Elster Electricity is one of the Elster Electricity operates in most global www.
com markets through its own offices or agents.
largest international Smart In South America, the biggest markets metering solutions providers, are Brazil, Argentina and Colombia, supplying both traditional where Elster Electricity has a market and Smart meter equipment, leading position selling stand-alone metering and advanced metering systems.
Total revenue including applications for Market leading technology has also been Year ended 31December 2013 residential, commercial, developed by Elster Electricity to prevent industrial, transmission and electricity theft through the accessing of 247.5m distribution markets.
power lines before it arrives at the meter: 2 2012: 106.8m this solution also allows utility companies to pin-point where there may have been The product range includes distribution a potential breach of their electricity and control monitoring equipment, 1 Headline operating profit power lines.
An increasing demand for advanced Smart metering, demand Year ended 31December 2013 similar solutions across the region will response, networking and software further strengthen Elsters position across solutions including MDC Meter Data South America.
Collection, together with several other 21.5m 2 communication products and services.
2012: 12.6m North America is served through factories Elster has key production facilities and sales offices, and offers Smart located in Europe, North America and metering solutions to commercial, South America.
Proportion of Group revenue industrial and residential markets.
Elster Year ended 31December 2013 has deployed more than fivemillion Smart Residential Meters over the last six years 1.
Elster Electricity and thus has one of the largest installed 3.
Most of the large utilities 1 4.
Energy across the region have started deploying 5.
Lifting 4 Smart meter solutions and it is expected that the future market demand will stabilise at the current level.
Growth is expected 3 2 inMexico, where a regulatory framework is in place to accelerate further the 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
2 2012 figures for Elster relate only to the four month period post-acquisition.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 25 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Europe and Africa have seen significant growth over the last year.
In Europe thethirdEnergy Package is callingfor a European-wide roll out of Smart meter solutions through to 2022 and significant growth is expected in the coming years.
Elster Electricity is well positioned with abroad range of products and solutions tocapture its fair share of the market.
TheMiddle East, led by United Arab Emirates, where a regulatory framework isnow in place to upgrade the metering infrastructure, is also expected to experience further growth.
5million Research and Development Elster Electricity has deployed more than 5million Smart residential meters over the last six years Looking at the smallest detail to deliver the absolute best products to its clients is at the heart of every research and development engineer at Elster Electricity.
Staying at the forefront of new and emerging technologies requires dedication and expert knowledge, The main markets served in the which is shared throughout the business.
AsiaPacific regions are Australia and NewZealand.
These are managed through dedicated sales offices.
As with other regions served, the regulatory framework is in place to upgrade the metering infrastructure.
Sales grew in Europe based on initial In 2013, production and assembly for Key strengths Smart metering pilot projects, which will North America was moved to Mexico: pave the way for later full deployments this also resulted in a streamlining of all End-to-end solution provider for across a number of key utilities within other central functions across sales, theSmart Grid, covering the entire most served markets.
Tender activities development and product management energy distribution value chain in the year give management confidence in the US.
In Europe a similar initiative Delivering complete Smart Grid and that further growth is to be expected in commenced with key operational functions Energy Management Solutions that the coming years.
The North American consolidated into Romania.
At the same drive energy efficiency, operational market saw a slight revenue decrease time development, product management improvements and cost savings compared to the previous period in line and sales were strengthened across all with expectations following significant markets served to support the future roll Driving interoperability and Open Smart metering deployment over the out of Smart metering solutions.
Standards through strategic collaboration last few years.
with customers and partners During 2014, management focus will be on Leading on Privacy Enhancement Operating profit improved significantly further optimising processes across all Technology and Security asaresult of consolidation activities functions, with investments in open Meter started in 2012, both in North America Data Collection solutions and partnerships Reputation for quality, reliability, andEurope.
with Smart Grid application providers.
accuracy and innovation Outlook Products The global market will continue to see a shift from traditional metering to Complete end-to-end product range, Smartmeter solutions in 2014.
Whilst covering every aspect of thevalue chain management expect the North America market to stabilise at current sales Innovative, advanced and modular volumes, other markets are expected to electricity meters for both residential, see growth, especially Europe, where the commercial and industrial markets year will see further pilot projects and Development centre for data concentrators Providing new concepts and significant tender activities for deployment Maintaining our high quality standards is the technologies in data collection in 2015 and beyond.
true driving force behind Elster Electricitys andcommunication development centres.
Data concentrators are rigorously tested throughout every step of the Full range of services, delivering development and production phase.
