Melrose Industries PLC 30 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Business review Lifting Rope Closing machine atBridon Bridons new Neptune Quay state-of-the-art manufacturing facility is capable of producing highly engineered ropes in package weights of 650tonnes.
The rope closing machine pictured, which is the largest of its kind in existence, was constructed to a unique specification and will enable Bridon to produce engineered non-rotating multi-strand ropes for critical deepwater oil and gas applications.
Bridon designs and While the onshore rig count in the US and www.
com Canada was flat, Bridon saw increases for manufactures a comprehensive onshore oil & gas ropes, reflecting a growth range of lifting and stabilising in market share through new distribution solutions for applications in wire channels.
The offshore sector also improved, rope, fibre rope, steel wire and as global production companies invested in new ships and platforms.
The expansion Total revenue strand.
The business services in exploration and drilling also offers Bridon Year ended 31December 2013 global customers in the oil & the chance to compete for some significant gas, mining, industrial, marine contracts for bespoke anchor lines, deep 266.4m and infrastructure sectors.
water mooring systems and offshore crane 2012: 268.4m ropes.
The contract for the Stella deep Bridons trading results were slightly water mooring system for offshore lower in 2013 compared to 2012.
Whilst production was won during theyear.
1 Headline operating profit demand in most of Bridons core markets Year ended 31December 2013 remained solid, reductions in expenditure 342 tonnes in the mining industry impacted demand Bridons new factory in Newcastle has already for mining ropes.
This effect is likely to 34.1m produced the largest rope ever made in the UK.
Bridon primarily 2012: 35.8m Weighing 342 tonnes, the rope has a length of 3.5km supplies ropes for use in existing mines and is used as a hoist rope within offshore oil and rather than in the development of new gasvessels mines and so should be well placed Proportion of Group revenue when the mining cycle starts to pick up.
The mining market was much weaker in Year ended 31December 2013 Bridon continued to focus on operational 2013 compared to 2012 and this effect was improvements across all its factories.
felt strongly in the second half of the year.
Elster Electricity Working capital control remained Falling commodity prices, reductions in 3.
Elster Water strong and profit to cash conversion capital expenditure by most of the larger 1 4.
mining companies, industrial relations issues 5.
Lifting 4 in South Africa and lower order books for the mining machine OEMs combined to reduce demand significantly.
Sales to China 3 2 remained solid but demand in Russia and South Africa was subdued.
In North 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
America demand was also depressed.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 31 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Key strengths During 2013, Bridon further developed its Bridon Academy.
As part of its strategy of continuing to develop people capability, the Comprehensive and competitive Academy represents Bridons strong commitment range of solutions in steel wire, to invest in its workforce.
The Academy offers the wire and fibre rope and strand following learning solutions: management and leadership, personal effectiveness, technical and Technical expertise to support compliance.
Bridon is adopting the principle of 70 20 10 learning 70% on the job, 20% coaching customers demanding applications, and 10% formal training.
Comprehensive trainer training, installation and testing material has been developed and internal facilitators have been introduced to ensure that Advanced manufacturing facility Bridon is self-sufficient with expertise being on Neptune Quay in Newcastle, UK retained in-house.
Expert technical and services support State-of-the-art technology centre in Doncaster, UK During the year Bridon opened a technical Three new high strength compacted Strategically located around the world and service office in Aberdeen, UK.
In crane ropes were developed for the addition, a new warehouse and service industrial sector.
Meanwhile in the mining centre in Macae, Brazil is now fully sector, further enhancements were made Products operational.
This facility provides wire rope, to triangular strand and Tiger Blue shovel Wire rope and strand termination and inspection services to rig ropes to enhance rope performance and operators in the fast growing Brazilian improve service life, as well as the Fibre rope and wire oil & gas market, as well as supporting development of a plastic impregnated Specialist installations import sales into Latin America.
rope to increase corrosion resistance in challenging operating conditions.
Inspection services Bridon has continued to upgrade its operations through targeted investment and A fully synthetic trawl warp was launched by progress in programmes to drive quality, for use in the marine sector, which offers The commercial construction market in efficiency and health and safety.
Inboth North significant fuel savings to the vessels the Middle East demonstrated some signs America and Europe significant improvements through reduced drag in the water, while of improvement in 2013, while crane rope were made throughout the factories in a synthetic mooring rope was developed sales showed moderate growth in North terms of waste reduction and efficiencies.
for Liquefied Natural Gas vessels with America, reflecting Bridons premier superior stability and fatigue performance.
Demand for crane In keeping with Bridons strategy to be the and mining ropes remained solid in China global technology leader for demanding Major planned activities for 2014 include and demand for oil & gas and industrial rope applications, Bridons new factory in a spiral strand design enhancement ropes held up well in Asia.
Bridons Newcastle, UK, is now fully operational.
involving larger diameter wires, a patented Chinese operation based in Hangzhou Thisfacility has already produced the largest advanced sheathing technology with continued to make progress, both in rope ever made in the UK, which weighs translucent inspection windows and a domestic and local export markets.
342 tonnes, has a length of 3.5km and is new slimline socket for structural and deep used as a hoist rope on offshore oil&gas water mooring applications.
The plant was profitable inits first projects include improving rope lubrication, year of operation.
The Neptune Quay facility extra-long deep shaft mining ropes, as well is capable of producing the worlds largest as continuing the work on hybrid ropes.
and most complex ropes and is equipped to load them directly onto barges or vessels in Outlook the deep water port ofthe River Tyne for Bridon expects demand in oil & gas to export.
In addition, theBridon Technology remain solid in 2014.
The oil price and Centre was formally opened in February demand for oil, particularly in the emerging 2013 and has been fully operational since the markets, should support activity levels middle of the year.
TheTechnology Centre in this sector.
However, the outlook for provides state of the art new product design, mining remains very uncertain.
Although Laboratory at Bridon Technology Centre development and testing facilities and is the need for mines to begin replenishing Bridons new pioneering state-of-the-art already fully utilised.
their operating equipment should benefit manufacturing facility at Neptune Quay, Newcastle, UK and the Bridon Technology Bridon, the timing of this is difficult to Centre, Doncaster, UK demonstrate Bridons In 2013, Bridon completed 19 product predict.
Commercial construction and commitment to global technology development and enhancement projects.
industrial activity appears to be picking leadership.
These significant investments in world leading facilities and expertise greatly For the oil & gas sector a low temperature up in the US and continuing in China, enhance the organisations ability to enable polymer core was developed for the Bristar but still remains subdued in some its customers to confidently face the and Zebra ropes to allow the first high developedcountries.
toughest challenges of deepwater exploration and production.
performance ropes to be used in arctic conditions at temperatures down to -50C.
