Melrose Industries PLC 26 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Business review Elster Water V210 volumetric polymer water meter The V210 volumetric polymer water meter offers long-life and high accuracy over a wide operating range with verylow environmental impact for residential billingapplications.
Elster Water designs, The move to higher accuracy meters and www.
com the discontinuation of low margin, low manufactures and provides a accuracy meters favourably impacted comprehensive range of water average meter selling prices.
The Elster metering solutions including Water business continued to be very high accuracy mechanical successful in reducing its overhead cost base through restructuring, which Total revenue meters, fully electronic meters significantly contributed to the operating Year ended 31December 2013 and Smart metering solutions profit improvement.
The business also for residential, commercial and benefited from a year-on-year reduction 179.9m industrial sectors.
in working capital, with strong 2 2012: 67.4m cashconversion.
Operating profit substantially improved in 2013, when compared to 2012.
This Total revenue reduced 15% in 2013, when 1 Headline operating profit followed the completion of restructuring compared to 2012.
This was due to the Year ended 31December 2013 work that was started in 2012 and cessation of North American mechanical completed during the first half of 2013. meter production from the end of the The business ceased its manufacture of first half of 2013, the rationalisation of 23.0m mechanical meters for the North American low accuracy, low margin products in 2 2012: 1.4m market which resulted in the closure of its Germany and Poland, the closure of large production site and the creation of a sales offices, the completion of a large sales and distribution centre focusing on Australian contract in 2012 and a move to Proportion of Group revenue electronic residential and commercial and third party distribution in South America.
Year ended 31December 2013 industrial products for the US market.
In Within Europe, the Middle East and the Europe, Elster Water further rationalised Asia Pacific regions, revenues were 1.
Elster Electricity product lines and closed production sites generally flat.
Elster Water with the consolidation of its production levels of growth.
Energy into its core manufacturing sites and 5.
Lifting 4 further investment in local sales and distribution centres.
3 2 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
2 2012 figures for Elster relate only to the four month period post-acquisition.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 27 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report New product launches in 2013 included The Commercial and Industrial high Significant capital expenditure has been the introduction of the polymer-bodied accuracy mechanical range of products approved in the year to increase capacity version of the S150 single jet meter have also been enhanced following the at our Luton plant for polymer-bodied range, reducing environmental impact metrological approval of the H5000 meters, meter production and on radio module and complying with future water quality which offer customers improved flexibility designs to support customer AMR AMI requirements.
A new generation of and lower installation costs.
Also within this product solutions.
mechanical sub-meters was also market, the Emeris Log system has recently launched, compatible with the latest data been launched offering advanced data Outlook communication systems and an extension logging, storage and management Following the completion of the of the advanced electronic water meter features with GPRS communications.
restructuring programme in 2013, the range: this provides a full portfolio of business is well positioned for further residential products with improved battery Globally, sales of polymer-bodied growth.
Focus will continue to be on life and polymer body technology in meterscontinue to grow with more than highaccuracy meters and advanced NorthAmerica.
Elstersaward metering solutions, where good winning polymer metersarehelping opportunities exist within core markets.
customers achievetheir CO reduction 2 targets as well as providing lead-free 1million alternatives to traditional brassand polymer-bodied meters sold in 2013 bronze-bodied products.
Key strengths Leading position in many of the world markets for water metering At the forefront of developing the next generation of water metering technology Leading innovative product development and technology choice for customers World leader in polymer and high accuracy metering technology Strong long-term customer relationships and strategic partnerships Reputation for quality, reliability, accuracy and innovation within the water industry H5000 Woltmann water meter Products With a measuring range of 2000:1, the H5000 offers customers a solution that provides accurate water measurement in support of both commercial billing Broad range of class leading and network applications.
It also simplifies meter selection and helps to provide reliable connectivity for Smart metering and other telemetrydevices.
mechanical water meters pre-equipped for Smart metering H5000 uses the same body as Elsters industry leading H4000 Woltmann meter, providing simple, cost effective change-out of existing meter stocks.
Advanced electronic water meters for both residential and commercial customers Innovative Smart metering solutions and services
