Business review and strategy Although there was a 3.4% rise in Group RevPAR during the year from 67.32 to 69.58, the Groups hotel revenue fell by 1.5% to 738.0m 2012: 749.4m due to the impact of rooms temporarily lost to refurbishment as well as a reduction in hotel non-room revenue.
Hotel operations higher room rates, following the Completion is expected to occur during refurbishment of ONE UN.
Global revenue per available room RevPAR increased in 2013 by 3.4% The Group achieved a consolidated hotel Since the year-end, the Group has to 69.58 2012: 67.32.
Positive gross operating margin of 35.4% for the announced that it has entered into a RevPAR performance in London, New year 2012: 38.5%.
The fall was mainly conditional agreement to acquire the Zealand, New York and Regional US 480 room 4-star Novotel New York due to lower operating profit margins at outweighed the fall in RevPAR in Times Square for $273.6m 167.0m, our Asian properties.
Central costs for Singapore, Rest of Asia and UK regional subject to standard purchase price the year increased by 29.5% to 30.7m hotels.
Our operating tactics were adjustments.
Completion is expected 2012: 23.7m, mainly because of our consistent with previous years, with to occur during the second quarter continuing drive to strengthen the sales teams focused on achieving an of 2014. central management team.
optimal balance between occupancy and Additionally in December 2013, the Acquisitions average room rate across the estate.
hospitality real estate investment trust Our financial position remained strong associate, CDL Hospitality Trusts During 2013, there was a greater throughout the year, which placed the CDLHT, acquired the 35 villa emphasis on driving revenue through Group in a good position to grow Jumeirah Dhevanafushi, its second higher occupancy ratios rather than through acquisition.
With the global luxury resort hotel in the Maldives.
This reected a economy showing signs of recovery, more competitive trading environment in Development hotel capital values have increased, some regions especially Singapore although at a faster rate than hotel and other factors, notably the absence In April 2013, the Group completed its earnings.
2 of the Olympics in London compared to purchase of a 1,563.7m plot of land 2012 and the reduced number of adjacent to the Millennium Seoul Hilton In December 2013, we announced the Japanese visitors to Seoul mainly as a for a price of 17.2m.
Architectural proposed acquisition of a leasehold result of political tensions.
detailing is underway for a construction interest in a 5-star, all-suite hotel located project, incorporating a hotel and Hotel revenues for the year totalled within the Chelsea Harbour district in serviced apartment complex which will 738.0m a reduction of 1.5% London.
The property currently offers be complementary to the Millennium compared to 2012 749.4m.
Apart from 154 suites and 4 penthouses and is Seoul Hilton.
market pressure affecting business situated in a prestigious riverside area levels in parts of Asia, revenues were that will be going through further In December 2013, we recognised further impacted by the removal of a net transformation and improvement in the revenues and costs arising from the 290,000 room nights from the system near future.
The property is in an 147 units sold in the Glyndebourne over the course of the year mainly due to improving and already attractive area of development in Singapore, following the Groups ongoing asset management the city and will t efficiently into the local authorities grant of the temporary programme.
As the programme existing portfolio of London properties, occupation permit.
Work on this continues, management anticipates that with minimum impact on central development commenced in 2011 this effect will reverse.
The purchase price following the closure of the Copthorne almost 14,000 room nights re-entered for the hotel is 65.0m, subject to Orchid Hotel, which formerly occupied the system in 2013, with signicantly standard purchase price adjustments.
The development resulted in 6 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Overview Business review and strategy Governance Group financial statements Further information 87.8m of the programme total of 240m had been spent up to Our strategy 31 December 2013, mainly on the Our core strategic objective is to service to its customers and good refurbishment of several key hotels provide long-term improving returns financial returns for its shareholders.
including the west tower of ONE UN on shareholders capital, whilst New York, Millennium Seoul Hilton, We take a four-pronged approach to growing the business through asset Millennium Hotel Minneapolis and Grand executing strategy, focused on capital acquisition and prudent investment Hyatt Taipei.
In 2013, 41.6m was spent allocation, promoting growth, in the existing asset portfolio.
maintaining cost control and fostering Group also invests in its people, its smooth operating procedures.
Refurbishment of the west wing of the brands and its technology in order Grand Hyatt Taipei was completed to provide excellent, cost-efficient during the third quarter of 2013, with work currently underway on renovation To provide improving returns of the east wing, which was closed on shareholders capital.
when the west wing re-opened.
The hotel is scheduled to re-open fully in the Cost control: Maintain a lean decentralised business model and drive efficiencies through systems and technology third quarter of 2014.
Grand Hyatt Taipei Growth: sharpen focus on key gateway cities and is our largest current refurbishment brand strategy through a first class sales team project, with costs to the end of 2013 Operational and organisational excellence: invest in people and technological innovation: adopt best practice totalling 29m and a final anticipated Capital and resource allocation: Reserve balance total refurbishment cost of 62m.
sheet for accretive acquisitions and optimal asset management In the US, refurbishment of the Millennium Hotel Minneapolis completed during the second quarter of 2013, with a total refurbishment cost of 14.4m.
The hotel fully re-opened in May 2013, and since then it has received revenue of 273.7m and an operating alternative scenarios for the Millennium a much improved rating from guests, Hotel St Louis, the Group determined profit of 139.3m.
The level of profit both directly and through hotel review that refurbishment of the property was reects the successful timing of the sites.
In the second half of 2013, unlikely to offer attractive returns in the project and the low historical book value RevPAR for the hotel was 52.89 foreseeable future.
The hotel was closed of the land.
Since the year-end, two compared to 44.19 in the same period in January 2014.
The Group is further apartments have been sold, the of 2012, representing an increase of considering a full range of options for the profits of which will be recognised 19.7%.
freehold property, which occupies a in 2014.
In addition, the The Group will continue to upgrade and Construction of the Groups hotel in Group closed two hotels in New Zealand improve its properties, with a number of Tokyos Ginza district is proceeding in 2013. refurbishment projects ready to according to plan, with works commence in 2014, subject to relevant scheduled to complete at the end of Refurbishment consents.
The new property will be a The Group considers that in the current significant addition to the Groups Asset disposals hotel trading environment it is vital to portfolio, adding a new key gateway invest in our asset portfolio in order to The Group recognised profit of 9.1m destination for business and leisure enhance trading performance, especially from land sales in New Zealand during travellers in the capital of one of the in our main gateway city properties.
We also worlds largest economies.
The site Results from those hotels where we announced during the fourth quarter of was acquired in 2011 for an initial have completed significant renovations 2013 that the Group had signed a capital outlay of JPY9.5b 55.1m.
have generated higher room rates and Collective Sale Agreement CSA with Total construction costs are estimated RevPAR compared to their preother selling unit-holders in Tanglin at JPY5.6b 32.5m.
Since the Shopping Centre, a shopping-cum-ofce current programme commenced in 2011, complex situated within the Orchard Having fully examined a range of 7 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Business review and strategy continued Road tourist district in Singapore, in sale of the existing site, the timings of the Middle East both important which the Group has approximately a which are currently unknown.
travel markets for the Group we are 34% interest.
This sale process will be extending our brand by managing The Group is also in discussions directed by an independent sales hotels on behalf of third party owners.
with the appropriate authorities in committee, representing all selling During 2013 we opened four hotels Scotland regarding the impact of the unit-holders.
In common with these unit under management contract.
In total, redevelopment of the local area on holders, the Group is bound by a the Group has 28 management the Millennium Hotel Glasgow.
condentiality agreement with respect contracts, most of which are in the to the proposed disposal which is highly Middle East and China.
Our management contract hotels In addition to acquisitions and During 2013, the Copthorne Hotel increase Group visibility in some of our refurbishment, the Group is pursuing Birmingham became the subject of a most important and fastest growing a number of other routes through compulsory purchase order as part of travel markets.
which the business can achieve the redevelopment of Birmingham city organic growth.
A strong global sales and marketing centre.
The Group entered into an Whilst hotel ownership is central to team is critical to our success in these agreement with the developer of the our strategy, we recognize that this areas and is therefore a core focus for scheme that grants the Group a model does not apply equally to all organisational development, whilst the number of options including the construction of a new hotel, and or the locations.
For example, in China and Group is also seeking to grow the Our business model We see long-term advantages in hotel including finance, audit, sales, in key functions such as human ownership especially assets located marketing, human resources, facilities resources and finance.
We apply in gateway cities where attractive management and procurement.
A sophisticated information and locations are scarce.
small global operations management communication technology to ensure team is responsible for ensuring consistently high standards across the Asset ownership enables investors consistent standards across the Group Group in all of our activities.
to participate in long-term asset growth and opportunities such as Vision re-development, as well as the Millennium & trading performance of each hotel.
Copthorne Hotels plc aims to be Therefore, beyond being experienced the leading global hospitality real estate ownership group for gateway cities with effective in-built hoteliers, we harness and direct the unique asset management skill real estate skills, knowledge and relationships throughout the Group Mission and its associates to ensure that At Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc we create value by improving hotel profitability through asset values are maintained and capital investment, consistent service delivery, lean operations and a motivated work force enhanced through the full range of Asset management Operational management Brand marketing means at our disposal.
Maximising yield and realizable Customer retention: profit Customer acquisition: The business model is fide-centralised asset value retention, employee motivation customer loyalty with relatively low central overheads.
U Expertise in identifying U Consistent service delivery U Relative positioning The Chief Executive officer delegates accretive capital investment responsibility for hotel operations to a U Efficient labour models U Flexible branding within set opportunities criteria network of seven Regional Managers U Employee recognition U Capital project management RMs, to whom our Hotel General U Master agreements with and evaluation U Local sales excellence key sales channels Managers GMs report.
RMs are U Opportunistic asset U National procurement strength U Revenue management supported by specialist regional teams acquisitions and disposals discipline covering essential core disciplines 8 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Overview Business review and strategy Governance Group financial statements Further information business through e-commerce The Groups investment in FSCL is a key branded hotel with convention facilities initiatives.
part of its China strategy, building the commenced in the second quarter of brand proposition in this key market.
It 2013 and is scheduled to open in 2017.
Operations also enables the Group to participate in FSCL has informed the Group that it is hotel ownership through mixed property Our dual operational focus is on people considering an initial public offering and development in a capital efficient and technology.
listing on the Singapore Stock Exchange manner.
of its principal operating subsidiary, First Attracting and retaining talented For the year ended 31 December 2013, Sponsor Group Limited, later in 2014. employees is one of the biggest the Group has recognised 7.4m as its challenges facing any modern share of FSCL's net profit after tax business and the Group places great 2012: 9.3m.
2013 profits arose mainly emphasis on human resource policies as a result of FSCL s disposal of the land designed to meet such challenges.
in Humen and profits on the sale of the Such policies embrace a number of remaining Chengdu Cityspring project, areas including pay and rewards, soft-opened in September 2013.
It is career development and training.
Progress on the With technology, the Group is seeking Wenjiang development land site in to simplify and rationalise key functions, Chengdu, purchased in November 2011 whilst continually seeking ways to make and branded as Millennium Waterfront, our interface with customers more is on track.
The land is designated for efficient, whilst reducing reliance on residential, commercial and hotel third party referrals.
The total residential component comprises 50 apartment During 2013 the Group laid the blocks with 7,110 units.
The sale of 10 foundations for a new state-of-the-art blocks of 1,618 residential units had customer relationship management been launched at 31 December 2013.
At system, as well as an enhanced that date 1,490 out of the 1,618 centralised reservation system.
Both of residential units launched had been sold these developments are planned to either under option agreements or sale become fully operational in 2014. and purchase agreements.
FSCL has also commenced the sale of some First Sponsor Capital Limited auxiliary retail commercial units and M&Cs associate, First Sponsor Capital sales have been encouraging.
Limited FSCL continues to make Development will be phased according good progress with development in to demand.
Construction of a Millennium Chengdu, Peoples Republic of China.
9 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013
