The business performance was particularly pleasing in Business Review Roger White, the second half of the financial year, with double digit Chief Executive revenue growth leading to full year sales of 237.6m, an increase of 6.6% on the restated prior year figure.
In the 52 weeks to 26 January 2013, A. G. BARR has grown revenue and volume well ahead of the U. K. soft drinks market.
The business performance was particularly pleasing in the second half of the financial year, with double digit revenue growth leading to full year sales of 237.6m, an increase of 6.6% on the restated prior year figure.
Reported revenue has been restated to include certain invoiced costs associated with promotional activities as a deduction from sales on a basis consistent with the accounts preparation adopted by our peer group and in line with the prospectus issued in December of last year.
The impact of this presentation is to reduce reported sales and gross margins whilst increasing the reported operating margin percentage.
There is no effect on previously reported profit before tax position.
The general economic conditions in our core market remained difficult during 2012.
Consumer behaviour maintained its trend of favouring familiar brands and value for money over new, premium priced products.
Retailers in all channels fought hard for consumers cash, leveraging price and, increasingly, deep cut promotions to build customer traffic in their stores.
Raw material cost inflation and volatility continued to be a feature in 2012 which, alongside the increased cost of promotion, impacted margins.
Our various actions to control costs helped to mitigate much of this impact on operating margins.
Underlying pre-tax profits increased by 4.3% to 35.0m reflecting the improving trend of the second half business performance.
Exceptional items amounting to 3.2m have been recognised which relate primarily to professional and legal fees in connection with the proposed all-share merger with Britvic plc.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 09 We grew volume and value, ahead of the In addition to delivering growth ahead of Business Review market, in both the carbonates and still the market, a solid financial outcome and Continued segments.
The overall soft drinks market a strong operational performance, we have experienced carbonates growth of 3.8% in also completed the planning and much value but was in marginal decline in volume of the build programme associated with terms, whilst the still segment grew value by our new production and storage facility at 1.9% with volume declining 1.0%.
During the Crossley Road, Milton Keynes.
Following fit 52 weeks to 26 January 2013, A. G. BARR out we expect the site to be in commercial grew carbonates revenue by 7.1% and volume production in the summer of 2013.
Stills also performed well relative the site will produce can volume and provide to the market, growing revenue by 4.3% and storage for several thousand pallets of volume 4.1%.
Our performance was driven finished goods inventory.
The Milton Keynes site is an important asset for the future by consistent growth across the portfolio, development of the business.
with carbonates particularly benefiting from the double digit growth in the Barr range and the significant growth in Rockstar.
The financial position of the Group remains Stills continue to grow steadily as we further extremely healthy.
During the year we have develop our exotic brands Rubicon and KA.
increased the level of net debt to 25.6m but this reflects early payment of the final The brand growth we have delivered is dividend, fees related to the potential merger against a backdrop of extremely poor with Britvic plc and capital spend related weather across much of the year, as well as to the new Milton Keynes facility, elements a number of major national events, such as of which will convert to lease finance.
the 2012 London Olympics, and a period of intense competitor activity both promotionally In January the board paid a second interim and around the key events across the year.
dividend of 7.4p per share, in lieu of the final dividend, which represents a 7.6% increase During the year, the business has managed in the total dividend for the 2012 financial the increased workload, inevitable distraction year.
This reflects the continued financial and general uncertainty created by the strength of the business and the confidence of the board in its future prospects, either potential merger of A. G. BARR p. l. c. and on a standalone basis or as part of an Britvic plc.
We have worked hard to maintain our focus on business as usual during the enlarged business.
period and the performance of the second half reflects the efforts of all teams across the entire business.
Rubicon and Sun Exotic Gets On The Go With New PET Pack Format Rubicon and Sun Exotic stills were was launched in a 500ml PET bottle for on the go consumption.
Previously only available in one litre and 288ml cartons, the launch of Rubicon Mango and Guava in PET bottles provides consumers with even more occasions to enjoy Rubicon.
10 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 In January the board paid a second interim dividend of 7.4p per share, in lieu of the final dividend, which represents a 7.6% increase in the total dividend for the 2012 financial year.
The Market However, the most polarising market The U. K. take home soft drinks category, movements in the period have been the as measured by Nielsen, was impacted by growth in the value of energy drinks and the adverse weather across much of 2012 the decline in still sports drinks, both sub and saw volume decline of 0.7%, whilst more categories reflecting changing consumer preferences as well as individual brand positively, value grew by almost 3%.
The soft promotional programmes which have drinks market, in volume terms, was driven by the continued strong performance of the varied on a year on year basis.
energy category, which grew volume by over 9%.
The overall market growth was Despite the impact on the market of very constrained by core categories such as cola, poor weather, soft drinks remains one of the which was in marginal volume decline, and key value growth areas of the grocery market.
stills in total, which was down 1% in volume.
The stills market performance was impacted Strategy by the still sports drinks sub category, which Our strategy, designed to deliver long term was down 10% over the year but with the sustainable growth in value, has not decline accelerating in the final quarter which changed and continues to focus on: was down over 17% in volume terms.
r Core brands and markets: BRU-Island On Pack Promotion Promises Tropical Fun In The Sun Carbonates continued to see good growth r Brand portfolio: IRN-BRU drinkers were given the in value, increasing by 3.8%, driven once r Route to market: chance to experience a taste of more by strong energy growth.
Stills grew r Partnerships: tropical paradise by winning a value by 1.9%, with all sub categories in r Efficient operations: phenomenal holiday to a sundrenched getaway destination.
r People development: and growth except sports, which experienced r Sustainability and responsibility.
6.8% value decline in the period driven by IRN-BRU Gets You Through the previously mentioned volume declines.
Flagship Campaign Consumers participation in the carbonates IRN-BRUs new Gets You Through TV campaign started in April.
category has remained at a high level, The Baby advert was at one stage supported by price-driven promotions the number one trending advert across the main brands.
worldwide on YouTube and by the end of the year had been viewed over 1.3 million times.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11 The various well documented challenges in IRN-BRU: Business Review the market across the past 12 months have Within our strong overall carbonates Continued further confirmed that our business model, performance, IRN-BRU sales grew by 1.4%, as a brand building, asset backed business, with a strong second half growth of almost operating across multiple channels, gives 5%.
This is a particularly pleasing result given us a strong market position allowing us the increase in competitor promotional activity to successfully navigate difficult market witnessed across the year in the multiple conditions and as we continue to drive grocer channel.
IRN-BRU continued to grow significant growth.
We believe that flexibility, in both Scotland and England despite the focus on efficiency together with clear competition in the key take home channel and consumer and customer understanding difficult weather conditions across the year.
are crucial to our continued success.
We have continued to develop the long term equity position of the brand through great advertising.
From a consumer perspective, Core Brands, Markets and Innovation Over the course of the last 12 months the IRN-BRU brand has never been in a better our core Group brands, together with our position.
The campaign achieved the highest franchise brand Rockstar, delivered total ever recorded spontaneous awareness growth of 8.6%.
This performance, which amongst key consumers.
The continued is well ahead of the market, reflects the use of value added promotional mechanics, continued opportunities to develop this year being BRU-Island, which offered availability, distribution and innovation consumers an opportunity to win a holiday to across these key brands and to bring in a sun-drenched tropical paradise, also added increasing numbers of new consumers to the strong positive brand development to our core brand offering.
This years on pack promotion, which was featured on TV and Our geographical growth figures support the heavily in store, specifically helped to deliver strategy of underpinning our Scottish base, the strong second half sales performance of which grew by 4%, and investing in the rest the IRN-BRU brand.
IRN-BRU Sugar Free of the U. K. which grew by 12%, reflecting both received year round marketing support and the significant future growth opportunities and in line with our plans continued to grow ahead of regular IRN-BRU.
the relatively modest share of this geography currently enjoyed by our brands.
Limited Edition Flavour Launch New limited edition avour Strawberry Sours tapped into the fast-growing consumer avour trend for sour sweets.
12 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our strategy for the development of the Within our exotics range, KA delivered IRN-BRU brand will continue to focus on long a strong second half growth performance term sustainable growth, further consolidating of 21.3%, with full year growth of over 7% its important position in Scotland and continuing despite tough comparatives following the the long term drive to build the brands highly successful launch of KA into stills penetration in the rest of the U. K. in particular in the prior year.
with consumers in the north of England.
Barr brands: We chose not to repeat the limited edition one The strong growth momentum behind off innovation of the prior year in which we the Barr range of traditional carbonates sold a significant volume of Fiery IRN-BRU.
The brand grew However, it is anticipated that we will launch by over 13% across the year, benefiting from both new packaging and a highly further exciting brand innovation during the relevant value positioning in the market.
course of 2013 to continue building the IRN-BRU brand across the market.
The packaging redesign, with its bright bold new look, is the first step in a programme EXOTICS Rubicon and KA: that aims to build the market positioning Over the summer of 2012, Rubicon enjoyed of the brand, specifically focusing on the the biggest single investment in marketing that wide variety of well known popular flavours.
the brand has ever received.
The launch of the The Barr brand grew in popularity outside its Love the Exotic marketing campaign included core market, growing by 23% in the north of national TV advertising which highlighted the England during 2012, as increased levels of brands authentic exotic taste credentials.
This distribution delivered a corresponding uplift was one significant component of a campaign in sales.
A major campaign for the Barr range designed to drive awareness of the brand commenced in early 2013, including TV and to move it into mainstream shoppers advertising, underpinning our conviction repertoires while at the same time rewarding that the Barr brand can continue to grow the loyalty of long term consumers.
In addition and develop as a key part of consumers to the marketing activity, the recently launched purchase repertoire specifically in Scotland 500ml PET Rubicon pack offered a new pack and increasingly in the rest of the U. K. format for the brand, targeting on the go consumers.
The Love the Exotic campaign Rubicon was supported by further cricket related Our Love the Exotic marketing campaign the biggest ever single consumer and trade activity, all targeted investment in the brand ran from towards underpinning the growth momentum May to July.
The two 30-second TV of this key brand.
commercials highlight the brands authentic, exotic taste credentials and have a warm, friendly and welcoming feel.
Simply Relaunch An exciting new look was unveiled for our Simply brand.
The Simply Fruity range of single-serve juice drinks is the fastest-growing kids brand in the impulse channel.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 Innovation 2012: Route to Market Business Review Innovation continued to play an important We operate in a multi channel marketplace Continued role across 2012 in growing the A. G. BARR with numerous proven routes to market business.
The success of initiatives such servicing these channels.
We have continued as KA stills and Barr flavour extensions to invest in capability, assets and technology continued to drive interest in the brands with to ensure that we can develop our supply consumers, encouraging them to buy into capability to meet the changing market the brands more often and helping grow and dynamics.
The increasing use of technology develop the brands.
The launch of Rubicon to improve our service and customer contact into the frozen category in 2012 was an has seen us roll out tablet based technology exciting development for the brand.
The to our field based sales teams across the Rubicon range of ice cream and frozen push last 12 months.
This technology allows us to improve sales force efficiency and ups met our expectations from a brand execution, whilst significantly improving development perspective achieving sales of over 0.5m despite the challenging market our customer contact.
conditions for ice cream as a consequence of the poor summer weather.
We will continue We have a relentless focus on developing to develop Rubicon sales in this new category and improving our execution capabilities across 2013, building on the learning and across the market and remain convinced that experience of our first year although we do the key point of difference, across each route not expect sales in this category to have to market, is the quality and commitment Rubicon Ice Cream Range a material impact on our overall performance of our people in building long term profitable The summer saw further marketing activity for our recently launched in the next 12 months.
The execution range of Rubicon ice cream and all of our core brands will continue to play performance improvement delivered in the lollies.
The summer-long support a key role in the growth of the business as last 12 months has allowed us to achieve programme for the authentic, we develop and build our brands to meet the significant growth we have delivered.
exotic avoured ice cream was spearheaded by a three month constantly evolving consumer needs.
TV advertising campaign which ran until the end of August on ethnic TV channels.
Seasonal Promotion Opportunities A. G. BARR helped retailers celebrate Halloween by launching a range of spooky special packs.
IRN-BRU was available in terrifying twin-packs and trick or treat value packs, decorated with bats and pumpkins.
Consumers were also haunted by Barr Scream Soda and Creepy Cola.
14 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Partnerships During the year we have focussed on Our performance with our key partnership consolidating and simplifying our international brands in 2012 has been strong, building sales which have encouragingly grown by on long term relationships and excellence 5.6%.
The outcome of this process will allow in marketplace execution.
us to develop a stronger core offering to international markets and to successfully The Rockstar brand has almost doubled in accelerate growth in the future.
the period, benefiting from market growth of 10% and also, more significantly, the very efficient Operations positive take up of the Rockstar innovation Following a challenging 2011, the past programme across the market.
In particular, 12 months has seen a very solid operational the Rockstar Xdurance product has driven performance.
Product availability and consequent customer service levels much of the growth in the brand, reflecting significantly improved and operating the consumer acceptance of a strong mix of brand affinity, product acceptability and costs have been well controlled.
In tandem exciting pack design.
The energy category with delivering the required operating is a key sub sector for carbonates and the improvements across the last 12 months Rockstar brand enjoys a strong following we have also made very significant progress within this category.
We have built a solid with the development of our manufacturing base business with Rockstar, particularly and warehousing capacity at the new in the impulse channel, and expect to bring Crossley site in Milton Keynes.
The building further Rockstar innovation into this growing construction commenced on site in July 2012 sub category over the coming year.
and the completed site is expected to be handed over by the developer in April 2013.
The Orangina brand strategy is now well The 265,000 sq ft facility will be fitted out positioned following several years of with production equipment over the course re-alignment, moving from a volume based of the period from April to July and production strategy to the current successful value of cans is expected to begin in the summer based approach which reflects the brands of 2013. quality niche positioning.
Last year, Orangina outperformed the soft drinks market and grew revenue by a solid 6%.
Continued Investment in IRN-BRU Sugar Free IRN-BRU Sugar Free was a key area for investment in 2012, with a marketing campaign that continued to communicate the products Sugar Free benefit to consumers.
A 30 second Totally Obvious TV advert was running in Scotland during February and March 2012.
This was also supported by a Sugar Free outdoor and bus advertising campaign across Scotland.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 The total investment in the project is c. 44m A. G. BARR has a unique culture and across Business Review and the full project is currently running on 2012 we have made considerable efforts Continued time and on budget.
to understand what makes us successful and to ensure that the approach we take This efficient purpose built site will facilitate is consistent across the whole business.
future growth for A. G. BARR and provide The drive to improve everything we do increased efficiency and flexibility into the will continue as we develop better ways future.
The recruitment and development of working, improve systems and processes of the local team is well underway and is and better engage and train our people making good progress.
The development of our risk management capability and People, Sustainability and Responsibility reporting is also increasingly important in improving performance throughout It has been a challenging year for the whole the Group.
In the second half, the announcement of the potential merger with Britvic plc and the associated The safety performance of our business uncertainty and increased workload were maintains its position at the top of everyones additional challenges for the team.
Across last year there was a drive all that has come our way across the year, to significantly improve reporting of near misses the spirit, tenacity, teamwork and capability and an improvement to the consequential of the whole A. G. BARR team has shone remedial action plans.
Across the year almost through, delivering consistent performance 3,000 near miss incidents were reported and across all areas of the business.
credit to everyone that we have met our performance expectations and delivered A. G. BARR entered into a number of all of our business as usual objectives.
government sponsored responsibility deals, perhaps the most significant of which is our commitment to reduce the average calorific content of our drinks portfolio by 5% by 2016, which we expect to do without compromising quality or taste.
This is an important step for A. G. BARR and is part of a growing industry wide commitment to demonstrate further responsible actions in the face of challenges from both consumer groups and government.
KA Still and Sparkling Flavours KA launched two exciting new avours during the year.
The brand introduced Sparkling Kream Soda and Still Strawberry to help develop and broaden out the range.
16 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 In October 2012, A. G. BARR confirmed We are investing further in assets, adding its position as an official supporter and additional capacity to allow us to successfully supplier to the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth grow at the same time as driving efficiency Games.
This is a key event for Glasgow and flexibility.
The Group remains in a very as a city and A. G. BARR is delighted to be strong overall financial position despite the involved as official soft drinks supplier significant investment in brands and assets.
to the Games, supplying a wide range of beverages, including water to the athletes Our approach to Britvic plc during 2012 and village during the Games and across all the potential merger received overwhelming of the Glasgow 2014 venues.
The Group shareholder support: however the uncertainty has a long history of sports sponsorship as a consequence of the referral to the and we look forward to working closely Competition Commission means that we must continue to build and develop our with the organising committee to do our plans as a successful standalone business part in delivering a great event in 2014. at the same time as we rigorously pursue Summary our reference through the Competition A. G. BARR has once again delivered a Commission.
strong financial performance in challenging markets.
The business has continued to Given the performance of the business, focus on delivering the basics well.
We have alongside its proven strategy, business model driven strong revenue and volume growth and people, the board remains confident in the and have continued to build share across future either on a standalone basis or as part the soft drinks market.
Our brands continue to respond well to our long term investment in equity as we improve awareness and loyalty at the same time as we build distribution and availability outside of our core geographies.
Innovation Sun Exotic Adds a Twist of Citrus to Range has added further depth to our ranges and A new avour was added to the enticed increasing numbers of consumers Sun Exotic brand for the first time Roger A.
New Citrus Twist Chief Executive builds on the Sun Exotic proposition of offering exotic fruit blends, recognising the growing consumer thirst for exotic avours.
Continued PHENOMENAL Support IRN-BRU is now in its sixth season as sponsors of the SFL, supporting the game across all three divisions.
The picture below shows Ross County celebrating the winning of the IRN-BRU Scottish Football League Division 1 title.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17
