20 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business Review Beauty Division Division highlights Key Brands Strong performance in theBeauty division with expansion into new markets ofPoland, Germany andCanada Kate Moss becomes the Innovations StTropez global brand ambassador New product ranges developed for Sanctuary andCharles Worthington Fudge.
com Active Reverse Body launch In 2012, Fudge launched a brand new Following the success of our Active website and Look Book celebrating Reverserange, with Darcey Bussell as innovation in hair styling and encouraging brandambassador, we have extended fans to create their own styles and inspire therange toinclude body treatments.
Fudge collaborated with Addressing womens most common photographer and film maker Rankin to concerns with products aimed at improving create a series of videos to celebrate every the appearance of skin, from firming to style, every colour andevery length of hair anticellulite, Active Reverse Body is to mark the officiallaunch.
Fudge is also designed to ensure your body looks as good building on itsstrong male grooming as it possibly can.
Each of the five products heritage and has collaborated with the isdesigned to improve the appearance of British Fashion Council for a second season specific body concerns overafour week as the Official Hair Partner for London period: giving instant, interimand four Collections: Men.
21 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Review In the Beauty division, growth has beenachieved in existing markets through new product launches and expanded distribution, as well as entry into new overseas markets such as Poland, Germany and Canada.
In May 2013, the division announced the appointment of Kate Moss as the new face and body of St Tropez.
Salesrates have already responded positively following an extensive PR campaign both in the UK and overseas and Charles Worthington Salon At the role out of stunning instore imagery.
Home launches with Alice Eve StTropez is fast becoming synonymous withthe leading choice for self tan in the markets in which it is sold.
Sanctuary has Our new look Charles Worthington Salon also performed well with Darcey Bussell AtHome range launched during June 2013 continuing in the role of brand ambassador into the UK, exclusive to Boots and starring and in particular for the Active Reverse skin Alice Eve as the new brand ambassador.
A new range of Active Reverse Theentire range has been reformulated to body products is being launched in the capitalise on the latest in hair technology, coming months as an extension to this whilst retaining the staple products that successful concept.
The three small ourcustomers rely on.
From shampoos boutique spas in Richmond, Cambridge andconditioners to styling products and andBristol, which were opened as a trial intensive treatments, these new and anumber of years ago, are being closed highlyeffective formulations have aspart of the divisions focus on its product beencombined with fine fragrance and ranges.
The entire Charles Worthington indulgent textures to produce professional haircare range was relaunched towards the solutions to everyday hair concerns.
end of the year with a more premium look and significantly improved formulations, endorsed by actress Alice Eve as the face ofthe brand.
In its first full year of trading under the ownership of the Beauty division, the Fudge hair styling brand has performed well supported by a new look fudge.
com website which is ecommerce enabled.
Newproduct launches are planned over thecoming months under the Fudge Urbanretail proposition.
Kate Moss: the new face andbody of St Tropez In May 2013, St Tropez, our iconic and leading global selftan range announced the appointment of Kate Moss as the new face and body of the brand.
One of the worlds most famous fashion and beauty icons brought her unique edge and personality tothe brands firstever global advertising campaign, resonating with confident women across allage groups.
Featuring Kate wearing the ultimate tan, the iconic images, inspired by the high glamour associated with poolside summers, were seen in global print, online advertising and instore, with UK and global press featuring the stunning images following release.
St Tropez is now in18countries, most recently expanding toPoland, Germany and Brazil.
