18 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Regional highlights Business Review Increase in profitability in theUK Washing and Bathing Europe division driven by new product launches and despite tough trading conditions Strong performance in the Beauty division with expansion into new markets of Poland, Germany and Canada Polish business performing well in both Personal Care andHome Care Innovations Key Brands Horio Our Greek food brand Horio, which is alsothe Greek term for village, have extended their concept and created a digital village that enhances the consumers relationship with the brand through a new dynamic website.
Consumers can navigate through recipes, chefs tips and demonstration videos to help get even more from our fantastic range of Revenue m Operating profit m cheese, oilsandspreads.
345.6 335.1 350 60 52.6 305.5 51.1 49.6 288.1 280.8 46.2 50 3% 3% 40.9 250 40 30 150 20 10 50 Little Explorers Following the success of Mum & Me, we have extended the opportunity for families to enjoy bath time by introducing Little Explorers, an exciting new product range aimed at toddlers, fuelling little ones imaginations and development through bath time play.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 19 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Review In the UK Washing and Bathing division, anongoing programme of new product development has ensured that the core brands of Imperial Leather, Carex and Original Source have continued to perform well despite intense promotional activity inthe trade and a challenging consumer environment.
The strength of the brands and the new product flow have allowed usto achieve this performance without the depth of promotions seen in competitor brands.
During the year Imperial Leather was relaunched with a best ever shower formulation and its unique foamburst rangeis being relaunched over the next fewmonths with exciting new graphics and fragrances.
Original Source continues to attract consumers with its successful limited Best Ever Imperial Leather edition ranges whilst Carex has further extended its position as the UKs number This year we harnessed 200 years of heritage and expertise one antibacterial hand wash with the launch incrafting the most amazing fragrances and formulations and of three variants for children: Strawberry delivered our best ever Imperial Leather shower formulation.
Our Laces, Chocolate and Orange, and Cola Imperial Leather sensory experts developed a revolutionary new Bottles.
Cussons Mum & Me, the new range shower recipe, adding millions of bubbles to produce a lather that is of products for mother and baby, launched richer, thicker and twice as creamy.
The launch included the brands at the beginning of the financial year, has first TV advert in over five years.
The combination of a rich heritage seen sales rates building on a monthly basis with modern innovation has made Imperial Leather an enduring as new customers are recruited to the brand and this has recently been brought to life with a redesign brand.
An extension of the brand called ofthe brands logo.
The new icon pays tribute to the legendary Cussons Mum & Me, Little Explorers, is now perfume so entwined with its history but with a modern twist.
being launched with a range of products for Master Perfumers sits proudly in the new modern gold crest: young children.
reminiscent of the brands royal associations.
Performance in Poland remained strong inboth Home Care and Personal Care with revenue and profitability ahead of the prioryear.
As announced in February 2013, contracts have been exchanged for the sale of the Home Care brands for 46.6 million incash with merger control clearance anticipated within the next few months.
Focus will then be placed on the Personal Care portfolio of Luksja, Carex and OriginalSource.
Revenue in Greece was lower than the previous year due to the macroeconomic environment, however the business still traded profitably across its range of edible oils, cheeses and spreads.
The results are immaterial to the Group as a whole.
Happy Birthday Carex Around this time 20 years ago, the UKs first antibacterial hand wash was launched.
Since then, Carex has been number one in cleaning and protecting hands in the UK and increasingly across Europe and the globe.
To celebrate, Carex UK launched the nationwide Carex Live Life Hands On Awards, asking our customers to tell us about a day in the life of their hands.
Mums, policemen, fishermen, artists and families and many others posted photos, made videos and even wrote poems to tell us about real life moments that their hands unlock every day, with the top 20 winning Red Letter Day experiences.
Carex continues to innovate and educate in hand hygiene, launching new Strawberry Laces and Chocolate Orange fragranced hand washes, chosen by children toencourage regular hand washing.
