16 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Regional highlights Business Review Another year of double digit revenue growth in Indonesia Asia with growth in both the babycare and nonbabycare portfolios Wider distribution achieved inPhilippines, Myanmar andVietnam A return to profitability inAustralia following the successful restructuring ofthebusiness Innovations Key Brands Morning Fresh Power Soaker Building on the great market presence thatMorning Fresh has as a leading brand inAustralia, we have created the first true enzyme soaking product in the Australia NZ market.
The superior grease cutting power of Morning Fresh and the new micro scrubbing enzymes power through the toughest of stains.
Revenue m Operating profit m 200 20 18.4 176.1 174.9 17.5 165.6 161.6 8% 109% 135.0 150 15 13.0 10.2 8.8 100 10 50 5 Imperial Leather Relaunch in IndonesiaandThailand Imperial Leather has been relaunched in Indonesia and Thailand, with a new formula, new packaging and a range of new variants Classic, Softly Softly, White Princess, Total Protection, Perfume Heaven, Aqua Fresh and For Men.
With a new Triple Moisturising Complex for softer skin, long lasting fragrance and a creamier lather, the new range offers amore enjoyable and luxurious showering experience.
Our Enjoy A Loveable Snuggle launch campaign included TV, print, digital and instore activation, in addition to a successful trade and business partner launch.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 17 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Review In Australia, the business moved back into profitability following the difficult trading environment in the prior year.
The key measure to improve the performance of the business was the closure of the production facility with all products now sourced either from the Groups facilities in Indonesia and Thailand or from third parties.
This move to a lower cost variable model has allowed the business to focus on its two main brands of Morning Fresh dish care and Radiant fabric care which are performing well despite the tough trading environment.
In addition, growth in the Personal Care portfolio has been achieved through successful new product launches under Imperial Leather and Original Source.
In Indonesia, another year of double digit revenue growth has been achieved, primarily Cussons Baby Little Star through Cussons Baby which has a number one position in the babycare category where Cussons Baby which has a number one position in the Indonesian it holds more than 40% market share.
babycare category launched their first Little Star competition in Additional focus is also being placed on the October 2012.
Parents were invited to enter photographs of their nonbabycare brands with Imperial Leather Little Stars with the chance of being selected as Brand Ambassador and Cussons Kids both performing well.
for Cussons Baby and Cussons Kids brands.
The competition Wider distribution of the Indonesian brand attracted over 110,000 entries, with the winners appearing on portfolio into the Philippines, Vietnam and product packs, print and online promotional media campaigns.
Sterling profits are slightly ahead of the prior year despite an approximate 10% weakening in the Rupiah toDollar exchange rate and a significant increase in wage inflation.
Profitability in the smaller Asian businesses of Thailand and the Middle East were slightly ahead of the prior year.
Raffertys Garden In July 2013 PZ Cussons acquired Australian baby food brand Raffertys Garden, a leading premium nutritious baby food brand with approximately 40% share of the Australian wet baby food market, as well as growing shares in the infant dry baby food and snacks market.
The acquisition marks our entrance into the Food and Nutrition category within AsiaPacific whilst adding another leading brand with exciting growth potential.
Our distribution network and understanding of consumers across Indonesia and Thailand, combined with our strength and experience in babycare through Cussons Baby in this region, ideally positions us to maximise the geographic expansion of Raffertys Garden.
