14 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Regional highlights Business Review Increase in revenue in second half despite ongoing unrest Africa innorthern Nigeria Improvement in operating profits as a result of margin improvement projects and lowerraw material costs Launch planned post period end of a new consumer brand, as part of the joint venture with Wilmar Innovations Key Brands Elephant and Coolworld making  This year we have made a successful partnership between our leading Coolworld stores and our well known fabric detergent brand.
Accompanied by eyecatching point of sale, customers who bought a Front Loader washing machine from Coolworld were given a free pack of Elephant Auto asthe recommended washing brand to accompany their new purchase.
The aim wasto encourage consumer trial as well asbuilding trust in the brand.
The launch not only included marketing media, but incorporated an integrated consumer health education programme, promoting the importance of good hand hygiene in personal and family care.
PZ Cussons is first to market with alocally manufactured liquid handwash, already reaching 20% market share.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 15 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Naira to Dollar exchange rate was stable and In Food and Nutrition, revenue in the the countrys foreign exchange reserves Nutricima joint venture was lower year on Review were preserved.
year due to distribution being skewed to In Nigeria, three macro factors affected the thenorth of the country, however operating trading environment during the year.
First, In Personal Care and Home Care, the Group profits were maintained at break even level.
the removal of part of the fuel subsidy in maintained or grew its leading market shares Focus is now being placed on rationalising January of the previous fiscal year continued through brand innovation and renovation and the product portfolio and improving to affect consumer disposable income with the development of new distribution points.
wage inflation still yet to compensate for The Group remains the definitive leader in this higher cost.
Second, Nigeria suffered its bar soap with Nigerias number one brand The new palm oil refinery, which was worst flooding in decades, particularly Premier as well as having strong market commissioned earlier in the year as part of the affecting the middle part of the country shares with Joy and Imperial Leather.
Other joint venture with Wilmar, has been increasing during September and October.
And thirdly, leading brands include Zip detergent, Robb production levels on a monthly basis and is social unrest in the north of the country Medicaments and Morning Fresh dishwash, operating well.
The Groups primary objective disrupted trade and transport routes as well as leading babycare brands such as for this joint venture is to launch a consumer affecting both domestic sales and exports.
Nigerian baby and Cussons baby.
food ingredients brand: this is expected to The combined effect of all these factors take place in the first quarter.
resulted in revenue being slightly lower year In the Electricals joint venture with Haier, as on year during the first half, and slightly well as maintaining the number one market During the year, the Groups holding in its higher year on year during the second half as share position in refrigerators and freezers, listed Nigerian subsidiary has been increased the trading environment in the south the Group has now taken market leadership further from 68.8% to 70.4% at a cost of became more robust, therefore resulting in in the growing washing machine category.
broadly flat revenues for the full year.
The HT Coolworld showrooms in Nigeria and Operating profits were higher year on year Ghana continue to play an important role Revenue and operating profits in the smaller due to margin improvement projects and both as sales outlets and as a showcase for markets of Ghana and Kenya were ahead of lower raw material costs, and against a prior Haier Thermocools position as the number the prior year.
During the year, the production year which included the negative effects of one brand in the market as it enters its 40th facility in Ghana was closed as part of the the nationwide general strike in January anniversary year.
supply chain optimisation project with 2012.
Economically, interest rates were products now sourced either from the Groups maintained at high levels which affected facilities in Nigeria or from third parties.
liquidity to the trade, whilst positively the 40th Anniversary of PZ Wilmar Thermocool PlantationtoPlate ElectricalsBrand In 2011, the PZ Wilmar joint venture wasformed with the ambition to We are pleased to celebrate the expand our presence in the Food and 40thanniversary of the Thermocool Nutrition category in Nigeria through electricals brand in Nigeria.
We have the establishment of a food ingredients market leading positions in the key consumer brand.
Together with our joint white goods categories of refrigerators, venture partner, Wilmar, we have set freezers and washing machines which out to achieve this by developing a new are managed through our joint venture branded consumer product range that partnership with Haier.
In addition, we will be launched in the first quarter have growing positions in other fast andby constructing a palm oil refining growing electrical categories.
The facility to world class standards to Thermocool brand continues to occupy secure theavailability and quality premium positioning in the Nigerian oftheoilingredients.
market based on its key offerings of quality, dependability and innovation In addition, Wilmar and PZ Wilmar linked to local consumer insights.
haveinvested 80 20 investment split inNigerian palm oil plantations to ensure ongoing oil supply and to support investment in the local Nigerian palm oilindustry.
These plantations have training schools on site to provide education and skills development inplantation management to localNigerian employees.
