Renishaw plc 14 Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance chairmans statement continued Total floor space sq ft since 1973 PeRfORmance 1,400,000 Today, as when we began in 1973, the majority of our R&D and manufacturing is carried out in the UK, primarily in Gloucestershire.
Over the last 40 years we have grown our global presence and now 1,200,000 have over 70 locations in 32countries and 94% of oursales are made outside the UK.
We have always heavily 1,000,000 invested in our global facilitiesfor future growth.
800,000 600,000 400,000 In this section 14 Business review 17 Metrology 200,000 22 Healthcare 25 Manufacturing 26 The Future - Additive manufacturing 28 Financial review 31 Key performance indicators 32 P rincipal risks and uncertainties 34 Corporate social responsibility 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 15 Performance Business reVieW there was a continued focus on investing strongly for the long-term growth of the business, including new product development, technology acquisition, the recruitment and training of skilled staff, building R&D AnD PEoPlE EnginEERing Continued focus infrastructure and manufacturing capacity.
ExPEnDiTuRE on recruitment and training of skilled staff We have continued toheavily invest for the future refurbishment of a further 66,000 sq ft Bothapplications are to meet the space reVieW oF 2013 ofproduction space, which now requirements for our projected future against the backdrop of continuing includes an area for the assembly of growth in r&d resource across all global macroeconomic uncertainties, ouradditive manufacturing machines, a product lines and the required growth in especially in the eurozone, we still new anodising plant and a new surface corporate support functions.
Work has achieved record revenues.
there was a mount smt assembly line.
these now started on a 120,000 sq ft continued focus on investing strongly for investments provide a substantial first-phase development at new mills, the long-term growth of the business, mitigation of the previous risks of having with half of the space expected to be including new product development, only one machining and anodising facility occupied in January 2014 and a further technology acquisition, the recruitment at stonehouse andallsmt operations 60,000 sq ft expected to be ready by and training of skilled staff, building located at ourWoodchester site.
July 2014. infrastructure and manufacturing there were further investments there was again a focus on acquiring capacity.
operating profit was lower, inotherGroup facilities, with the the necessary skills for the current and primarily due to our investment for a completion of a26,000 sq ft expansion future growth of the business, enabling higher level of revenue than actually of our existingirish manufacturing us to achieve an increase of 331 staff achieved from our metrology business.
facility, theoccupancy of our mdL during the year against a backdrop in october the miskin site was formally largescale metrology activities at a ofskills shortages, and a major drive opened by the First minister of Wales, new20,000 sqft facility in York and todevelop younger staff, resulting in carwyn Jones, at which time we theset-up of anew liaison office arecord intake for 2013 of 46 announced the intention to submit a inWuhan, china.
apprentices from over 300 applicants planning application during 2013 for and in excess of 50 graduates who will Planning permission was granted by a2m sq ft development at the site, all start their careers with renishaw stroud district council last year for a ofwhich 400,000 sq ft would be for during summer 2013.
230,000 sq ft phased development long-term use by renishaw.
at the atnew mills and a 50,000 sq ft existing facility we continued to grow development at our charfield site.
component-machining operations and, in april 2013, completed the 40 Years oFaPPLYinG innoVation... 1972 1973 1974 1976 1977 david mcmurtry invents renishaw electrical Ltd John deer is first full-time First commercial premises First dedicated probe for first touch-trigger probe registered 4th april employee, operating from purchased machine tools introduced his home address First commercial probe for cmms Renishaw plc 16 Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance Business reVieW continued We continue to make investments in areas that meet our key strategic aims, which this year included focusing on achieving faster market penetration forouradditive manufacturing and dental businesses.
BuilDing BusinEss viA ACquisiTion sTRATEgiC PARTnERsHiPs Acquired assets of lBC to strengthen additive manufacturing product offering there has been continued global patents from BeGo and comes at a time marKet conditions investment in production systems for when we are introducing a range of With tough comparators against last automotive, civil aviation, agriculture and innovative processes for the years record year for revenues, which energy including oil, gas and manufacture of dental structures.
saw a number of large orders in china renewables.
these sectors all require during the third quarter our German related to the consumer electronics more complex technologies that require subsidiary acquired certain assets of market, this year was always going to tighter levels of process control and LBc  Gmbh, bechallenging.
there was also lower measurement accuracy, whilst at the apioneer in the field of additive than expected growth in some of our same time aiming for more cost-effective manufacturing for tool and mould newer businesses, although we processes.
a new business, LBc remainconfident of their longer term businesses to achieve these aims.
engineering, has been created which contributions.
willenable the renishaw Group to offer once again it was china that had a strateGY additional additive manufacturing marked impact on our performance, services, including design and We continue to make investments in with its contribution seeing Far east simulation, that we believe will enable areas that meet our key strategic aims, revenue for the first quarter more our customers to more rapidly integrate which this year included focusing on thandoubling compared to the this new technology, and also allow achieving faster market penetration corresponding period last year.
despite us, where applicable, to contract forour additive manufacturing and a slowing in growth during the latter part manufacture metal prototypes dental businesses.
of the year, our annual sales to china still andproduction parts.
in march we reached a licensing grew 15% and helped overall Far east agreement with BeGo, a leading sales to show some 7% growth over international specialist in dental 2012. sales to americas also grew, but prosthodontics, which allows renishaw the eurozone challenges, especially in to use BeGo patents for additive the southern markets, meant that there manufacturing.
the agreement also was no growth this year in europe.
gives our customers access to important 40 Years oFaPPLYinG innoVation... 1978 1978 1979 1979 1979 First patent case fought First renishaw exhibition sales reach 1m, ofwhich First Queens award david mcmurtry joined jointly with rolls-royce stand at PeP show, 85% were exports export achievement company full-time olympia, London First apprentice recruited Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 17 Performance Business reVieW metroLoGY sPrint scanning system for machine tools be unpredictable, our continuing PerFormance meTROlOGy RevenUe infrastructure investments in the Far east the majority of the metrology product by ReGiOn and agile manufacturing capabilities lines grew, including the gauging line, mean that we are very well positioned to m which is gaining increased acceptance provide the rapid supply and expert local in the conservative gauging market, support required by customers andthe additive manufacturing responding to the fast-paced needs 5 4 productsbusiness acquired in 2011 ofthese sectors.
seepages 26 27. in april we were also pleased to receive 1 a strong customer base has now been a Queens award for enterprise in the established for the equator gauge, innovation category for the reVo 3 mainly in the automotive, aerospace and five-axis measurement system, consumer electronics sectors, with acknowledging both its technological global interest.
the integration of the 2 and commercial success.
due to the product within automation cells is also significant measurement throughput it anotable trend see page 19. offers, there is a growing interest in turnkey measurement solutions based one of the strongest lines was our 2013 2012 on reVo for aerospace companies.
position encoders, which is benefitting With a strengthening portfolio of from a recovery in investments into the 1 Far east 128.7 122.3 software to aid the measurement electronic and semiconductor markets, 2 continental europe 87.3 86.7 andmanufacture of aeroengineblades, especially in the Far east.
as was the we expect to see thistrend continue.
3 americas 74.5 71.3 case last year, an important element of growth is the use of machine tool probe 4 uK 18.1 17.1 a notable success has also been the systems by manufacturers in the Far Xr20-W rotary axis calibration system 5 other regions 9.3 8.4 east in the production of precision which was launched in 2011 and is total 317.9 305.8 components for consumer products.
currently achieving double the rate of Whilst demand for both these lines can sales of the product that it replaced.
40 Years oFaPPLYinG innoVation... 1980 1981 1983 1984 1985 official opening of First overseas renishaw shares listed on First sponsored student new mills building opened extended premises by hrh manufacturing facility unlisted securities market schemeintroduced now the companys hQ Princess anne opened in dublin, ireland of the London stock renishaw shares enter official exchange First overseas subsidiary list of London stock exchange: opened near chicago, usa rights issue raises 5.9m Renishaw plc 18 Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance Business reVieW metroLoGY continued We also constantly evaluate new opportunities for existing or complementary technologies to both increase sales to our existing customer base and to expand upon that base, especially within the metal BuilDing BusinEss viA cutting sector.
ACquisiTion sTRATEgiC PARTnERsHiPs Completed the purchase of the remaining tranche of shares in MDl and integrated the MDl business into the Company desire to replace fleets that have less base and to expand upon that base, marKet conditions fuelefficient engines.
our metrology especially within the metal cutting sector.
in the relentless drive to reduce costs, products are heavily used in this sector.
the purchase of mtt technologies shorten lead times and improve in2011 to create our additive thequality of finished products, manufacturing business is a good strateGY manufacturers continue to adopt the example, with the majority of current a key focus is on developing latest renishaw technologies to keep sales to organisations with whom we technologies that provide patented machines running reliably, to maximise already have a business relationship, products and methods which support output from those machines and to whilst the equator gauge transfers our product strategies, with 40.2m significantly reduce the time taken to existing technologies employed in our netof capitalisation costs expenditure inspect finished components.
the skills dental scanning systems to a new shop on r&d and engineering during the year.
shortages faced on a global basis in floor measurement application.
the current technology focus includes engineering and manufacturing is We continue to position renishaw as a high-speed, high-accuracy dimensional alsodriving increased investments in solutions provider and reduce the risks measurement systems, ultra highautomated processes, many of which of over-reliance on large customers who resolution position feedback encoders require our products.
our new gauging and the development of additive the automotive sector is clearly and additive manufacturing products are manufacturing systems with faster experiencing challenges caused by supplied direct to the end-user, whilst processing capability.
We will also lower demand for domestic vehicles we continue to strengthen our portfolio investin businesses that provide inthe eurozone countries, which is not of hardware and software for cmms complementary technologies for faster being offset by increased demand in thatcan be used to upgrade measuring market access, as demonstrated by growth markets such as china.
thepurchase of the LBc assets.
a much more positive factor is the We also constantly evaluate new growth in the civil aviation sector, where opportunities for existing or there is an increased demand for complementary technologies to both planescaused by the rise of passenger increase sales to our existing customer numbers in growth markets, and the 40 Years oFaPPLYinG innoVation... 1987 1987 1989 1991 1992 digitising software agreement with First encoder introduced Qc10 ballbar launched Launched cyclone maetrace introduced rolls-royce to take rGi scanning machine introduced raman 100% ownership of introduced laser microscope original patents interferometer sL10 Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 19 eQuator GauGinG Products heLP create automation ceLL For manuFacture oF BearinGs mud-motor bearings machined around the clock in an unmanned cell that paid for itself in just 18 days Conroe Machine in Texas, USA, conroe has also created an unmanned hasintegrated a Fanuc robot with part measurement sorting cell for a an Equator gauging system, customer, this time combining two usingRenishaw EZ-IO software equators, a Fanuc robot, a vision toprovide communication system and multiple conveyor lanes.
functions, for 100% part inspection inboth applications, the equator has and auto-compensation of a tomeasure quickly to keep up with twin-spindle Okuma lathe.
machining cycle times for the parts, Thecellalso boxes and palletises doing so without fixturing, or problems finished parts.
arising from the shop floor environment.
says conroes James Wardell, For our machining cell, there was no other cost-effective, shop-floor measuring tool comparable to the equator.
com Renishaw plc 20 Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance Business reVieW metroLoGY continued section profile and airfoil characteristics, compatibility with the siemens KeY deVeLoPments and surfitBlade toaidreverse driVe-cLiQ interface, which allows it has been a busy year for new product engineering of the completeairfoil.
machine builders to achieve higher introductions and many of these will be performance and greaterreliability.
Following the acquisition of r&r Fixtures, on show at emo hannover, the worlds LLc in 2012, we have also developed an largest metalworking industry trade outLooK extensive new range of modular show, in september 2013.
First fixturing, designed specifically for the outlook for global investment for introduced at a us conference last co-ordinate measuring machines production systems in civil aviation, autumn, sPrint is a high-speed cmms, vision systems and the equator consumer products, agriculture, contact scanning system that we believe gauging system.
this was previewed at construction and power generation will open up new process control a German exhibition in may and will be including oil, gas and renewables opportunities for high-value cnc fully launched at emo.
it will enable fast and trends should all result in increased accurate form and profile data to be other products introduced this year demand for our metrology products captured from prismatic and complex include hs20, a significantly updated tohelp drive efficiencies, reduce waste, 3d components, opening up possibilities replacement for our long established increase automation and aid product for sales into the aeroengine blade hs10 long range laser encoder, new measurement traceability.
We are also refurbishment market.
off-axis software for the Xr20-W rotary expecting to see increased adoption of axis calibrator that extends usage to a as already mentioned, a series of additive manufacturing technologies and wider range of five-axis machine tools, software products that complement a continuing recovery in the electronics plus a new extended height version of thereVo system have also been sector which will benefit our position the equator gauge that accommodates introduced, specifically designed to aid encoder product line.
large fixtures and automation systems.
the measurement and manufacturing For position feedback we also ofaeroengine blades.
these include launchedtwo variants of our aPeXBlade planning software for resoLute absolute encoder: reVo sweep scanning and dmis anultra-high vacuum uhV compatible programming, modus airfoil analysis readhead, and a version offering for the calculation and reporting of blade 2 1 3 1 renishaw fixtures for cmm, vision systems andequators 2 hs20 laser encoder 3 Xr20-W for off-axis rotary calibration 40 Years oFaPPLYinG innoVation... 1995 1996 1997 2000 2001 Launched hs10 3 awards received for Pcmt process control Worldwide sales reached david mcmurtry received laser scale ramtic production software for machine 100m knighthood for services to system tools launched design and innovation reached 1,000 employees worldwide Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 21 criticaL oiL and Gas Production comPonents reLY on renishaW Preventative maintenance programme checksandverifies the dimensional accuracy of20cnc machine tools FMC Technologies manufactures at its facility in scotland oiland gas Production Control Fmc technologies manufactures Systems PCS, which include a arange of components, including Subsea Control Module SCM that manifold blocks, a critical component provides engineers on board a ofthe scm assembly, thattake up to production platform with precise 35 hours to machine.
scrapping such control of the sub-sea well, which parts due to a machinegeometry could be up to 120km away.
Any inaccuracy would bevery expensive, failure of an SCM could cost tens or soto prevent this happening, all even hundreds of millions of dollars.
machines are regularly checked with arenishaw Qc20-W wireless ballbar and XL-80 laser measurement system, and machine data is stored for quick and easy retrievalusing renishaws cncreporter software.
com Renishaw plc 22 Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance Business reVieW heaLthcare inVia raman microscopes are used for analytical applications as diverse as pharmaceutical, forensic science, nanotechnology and semiconductors We achieved further sales of our a key success for our dental business PerFormance neuromate stereotactic robot which was the continuing growth of our Growth came from our spectroscopy isused for functional neurosurgery.
LaserPFm frameworks, which are and neurological product lines, with both inFrance, the neurosurgery department dental structures for crowns and bridges achieving record annual sales, and the of centre hospitalier universitaire that are created from cobalt chrome former being particularly strong, driven Pasteur in nice completed their first powder using an additive manufacturing by an increasingly diverse range of procedures using the robot, whilst a process.
Production levels were at applications in nanotechnology, unitwas also sold to a hospital in record levels during the year and, advanced materials and life sciences.
there were robots supplied withincreasing concerns about the for the first time to Germany and the traceability of materials used in dental an important application highlighted middle east.
multiple other opportunities products sourced globally, the certified during the year for the raman exist, and the robot, together with our products that we offer are increasingly microscope is its use for researching neuroinspire surgical planning attractive.
We also continue to benefit thewonder material graphene, a single software, used in the planning of from the decision to offer a central layer of carbon atoms.
it is one of the deepBrain stimulation dBs manufacturing facility to users of most conductive materials known to procedures, arebeing shown atkey non-renishaw scanning systems.
science and has a breaking strength international congresses.
100times greater than steel, but is very difficult to grow in large films without We are also supplying devices to deliver defects.
Breakthrough research by an therapies directly into the brain and international team led by oxford expanding our product range by university using an inVia raman pursuing development work on devices microscope has identified a technique capable of delivering an expanded range that could prevent these defects and of therapies for treatment of neuro pave the way for manufacturing degenerative conditions.
40 Years oFaPPLYinG innoVation... 2002 2005 2006 2007 2010 First dental scanner Launched reVo five-axis Purchased itp Gmbh established neurological acquired initial stake in introduced triclone 90 measurement system product line measurement devices Ltd mdL with agreement to purchase remaining shares Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 23 remarKaBLY accurate dentaL structures Renishaw LaserBridges are From his state of the art dental laboratory, substructures for full-arch dental in the heart of Gloucestershire, restorations made using a hybrid multi-award-winning t J nicolas, process combining laser melting ofimplant & ceramic centre Ltd sometimes called 3D printing and dentalstudios, commented, highly accurate 5-axis machining.
i use renishaw for my complex long Thestrengths of both processes span restorations after having tried all areexploited to produce implantsuppliers.
i found renishaws ability to supported bridges with extremely deliver quickly and to mimic both the inner high surface detail and traceable and the outer contour of my bridges accuracy, which is demonstrated by remarkably accurate to the micron!
the unique certificate supplied with With this technique i can make the each case.
finished crowns first, which gives an exact in this instance the customer had made result.
a patient can now have exactly crowns to cement onto the bridge before what they had before any traumatic injury.
it had even been manufactured.
this due to this accuracy i can make more meant that the upper surface of the bridge discreet cobalt chrome and stronger had to be accurate enough to allow those zirconia frameworks with less aesthetic crowns to seat correctly.
the photographed successfully achieved using the power framework, provided by renishaw, was and flexibility of renishaws hybrid alarge distance, which has huge technical manufacturing.
implications, but was unbelievably accurate.
this technique would save See more at anytechnician many days work.
com Renishaw plc 24 Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance Business reVieW heaLthcare continued both additive and subtractive combination of contact scanning for marKet conditions manufacturing techniques in the accuracy and optical scanning for With increasing life expectancy in production of Laserabutments, and speed, and includes the ability for developed countries, there are greater the application of core engineering skills technicians to see photorealistic images incidences of degenerative neurological that allow the accurate identification of of their designs with trusmile image diseases which require medical target positions and the delivery of rendering software.
in developing markets, medical devices deep within the brain LaserBridges are screw-retained thereare also higher levels of wealth forstereotactic neurosurgery.
bridges produced in metal using an atanational and individual level, which additive manufacturing process.
they a focus is also on finding new markets aredriving demand for higher quality give dental laboratories a superior quality for existing healthcare technologies.
medical treatments, and this often of fit because the implant positions are agood example is the use of raman means the purchase of more captured using a high-accuracy contact spectroscopy as a key component for technologically advanced products.
the Groups emerging molecular there also continues to be strong diagnostics business and its use in globalfunding for biomedical research outLooK research applications including cancer where our spectroscopy systems are detection and iVF treatments.
With an ageing global population there increasingly seen as a powerful are rising incidences of neurological analytical tool.
We also actively consider acquiring disorders which will require surgical businesses and or technologies that we therapies and we are well placed to feel are complementary to our existing strateGY For GroWth supply surgeons with the products and healthcare products.
as with our metrology business, a key techniques to support such procedures.
focus is developing technologies that KeY deVeLoPments Where personal incomes and healthcare provide patented products and budgets are under pressure there is methods, with 8.5m net of at the Pittcon 2012 show in march 2013, demand for lower cost dental crowns capitalisation costs of expenditure on we introduced our new Wire 4 software and bridges, serviced by our low-cost r&d and engineering during the year.
that enables users to collect and work metal dental structures produced using the regulatory requirements for with larger raman data files more an additive manufacturing process.
healthcare products also demand efficiently, whilst producing high significant investment, but make barriers definition chemical images for reports commercial applications for raman to entry high for competitive products.
and scientific papers that require no spectroscopy continue to grow, processing, no interpolation and are including new fields such as We aim to develop innovative healthcare without pixellation.
We also introduced nanotechnology, advanced materials products that will significantly advance the eclipse filters for the inVia raman and the life sciences.
our customers operational performance microscope, which make studying by maximising research capabilities, lowwavenumber raman features reducing process times and improving mucheasier, for more in-depth the efficacy of medical procedures.
We are constantly looking at during the year we also launched several opportunities based on core metrology new dental products.
the ds20 dental technologies and expertise, so scanner is our first non-contact optical minimising technology risks.
this can scanner used for high-speed scanning beseen in the use of measurement of dental models, where less detailed sensors, encoders, software and data is required.
the scanner can be machining technologies for dental cad used with our new dental studio cam products, including combining caddesign software that allows the 40 Years oFaPPLYinG innoVation... 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 introduced gauging Won uK Best mid-cap reached 3,000 employees Woodchester plant new fixtures product line product line equator Business of the Year award worldwide won Best electronics & launched national Business awards electrical Plant award Launched additive sales reached 300m manufacturing product line Purchased miskin site in south Wales Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 25 Performance Business reVieW manuFacturinG stronG inVestments in manuFacturinG caPacitY Following the acquisition of the investment in additional machine tools 461,000 sq ft facility at Miskin in will occupy the remainder of the first September 2011 and the first phase.
refurbishment of afurther phaseof refurbishments in 2012, 66,000 sq ft was completed inapril production of machined parts has 2013 to provide additional capacity for been ramped up to three shifts assembly operations.
ofadditive manufacturing machines was transferred to miskin atthe beginning of 2013 and the production ofsome finished electronics products transferred in may2013, together with asubstantial investment in a new surface mount electronics line and associated facilities.
meanwhile, investment in new technology, capacity and headcount has been maintained at the other manufacturing sites, and the planned expansion of the facility in swords, dublin was also completed during april2013.
com Renishaw plc 26 annual report and accounts 2013 Feature the Future additiVe manuFacturinG Renishaw laser melting is a Unlock the huge pioneering process capable of producing fully dense metal parts direct from 3D CAD, which has the power to unlock the potential for additive manufacturing.
At the core potential for of the process is the use of focused laser energy to fuse fine metallic powders, in a tightly controlled atmosphere, to form highly additive complex functional components, that go way beyond the designs of today.
The metallic powder is distributed manufacturing evenly across the build plate in layer thicknesses ranging from 20 to 100 microns forming the 2D cross section.
The layer of powder is then fused using the laser in a In The wORlD Of tightly controlled atmosphere.
mAnufACTuRIng The process is repeated, building up TeChnOlOgy, parts of complex geometries, layer we OCCAsIOnAlly by layer.
expeRIenCe The technology is already widely bReAkThROughs employed for the manufacture ThAT hAve The of custom medical implants, pOTenTIAl TO lightweight aerospace and motorsports parts, efficient heat TRAnsfORm The exchangers, injection moulding InDusTRy, enAblIng inserts with conformal cooling exIsTIng pRODuCTs channels, and dental copings and TO be mADe fAsTeR, crowns.
The process gives CheApeR AnD beTTeR, designers more freedom, resulting AnD OpenIng in structure and shapes that would otherwise be constrained by up A wORlD Of conventional processes or the new pRODuCT tooling requirements of volume pOssIbIlITIes.
production, giving the opportunity to rethink the concept of design for manufacture.
The capability to safely process reactive materials such as titanium and aluminium is a standard feature on all Renishaw machines, with safe systems for process emissions and powder handling.
The machine build chambers are a vacuum chamber that is filled with a controlled atmosphere of inert argon gas.
Other materials currently supported include certain grades of stainless steel, tool steel, cobalt chrome and inconel.
Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 27 1 Tsinghua university is Renishaws JusT lIke The ADvenT Of first Chinese customer for additive CnC mAChInIng, CAD CAm, manufacturing machines.
The Am250 machine will be used for a CO-ORDInATe meAsuRIng range of metal powder research mAChInes AnD lAseRs, applications, such as high melting meTAlbAseD ADDITIve point alloys for civil nuclear mAnufACTuRIng wIll applications, and potentially other TRAnsfORm pART applications including research into aeroengine blades and medical pRODuCTIOn, buT we ARe 2 implants.
It chose the Renishaw Only AT The sTART Of system due to its open platform ThIs exCITIng JOuRney.
architecture which allows mechanical and software Customers benefit from reduced parameters to be modified, plus lead times, tooling costs and our ability to provide strong local minimal waste product, as over 95% technical support.
of the material is reusable after Renishaw is also contributing 1 3 refinement in the Renishaw powder its knowledge in additive conditioning system.
It is also manufacturing to create key complementary to conventional prototype parts for the machining technologies.
blOODhOunD supersonic car, Recent adopters of the Renishaw which will attempt to break the technology include swansea 1,000 mph speed barrier during university, one of the uks top summer 2015.
One of the most research universities, and Tsinghua critical components is the nose university in China.
both universities tip for the car, which will be subject have acquired a Renishaw Am250 to forces as high as 20 tonnes.
Dan Johns, a lead engineer at At swansea university the system is blOODhOunD ssC, says: being used by a new Aerospace & we believe that the key benefit manufacturing multidisciplinary of using an additive manufacturing research team within the process to produce the nose tip is universitys College of engineering.
the ability to create a hollow, but part of the teams focus is the highly rigid, titanium structure, and AsTuTe Advanced sustainable to vary the wall thickness of the tip manufacturing Technologies to minimise weight.
To machine this project, which targets the component conventionally would aerospace, automotive and high be extremely challenging, result in technology sectors and aims to design compromises, and waste create sustainable, higher value as much as 95% of the expensive 1 professor liu of Tsinghua university, with goods.
by applying Advanced raw material.
ben Taylor and sir David mcmurtry, in front engineering techniques, such as of the universitys new Am250 additive simon scott, responsible for manufacturing machine additive manufacturing, to both Renishaws additive manufacturing 2 3D representation of the design for the design of products and to the the blOODhOunD supersonic car product line says, Renishaw is production process, the project image courtesy siemens nx rapidly gaining a reputation as a aims ultimately to create new 3 when the Rt hon David willetts mp, uk leading supplier within the additive skilled jobs in the manufacturing minister for universities and science, manufacturing market and we are sector in wales.
formally opened the new blOODhOunD well placed to take advantage of the Technical Centre in bristol, he was presented wider adoption of this exciting with a prototype nose tip manufactured by Renishaw technology for research and 4 A strong application for additive industrial applications.
manufacturing is the production of mould tools and tool inserts, with complex conformal cooling channels, for injection moulding and die-casting applications Renishaw plc 28 Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance FinanciaL reVieW RevenUe internationaL FinanciaL reVenue GeOGRaPhical analySiS rePortinG standards Group revenue for the year was arecord iFrs 346.9m, an increase of 15.0m, or 5%, over the previous year of 331.9m 5 4 in accordance with eu law, the although below the level expected earlier consolidated financial statements in the year.
there was good growth of ofthecompany are prepared in 1 7% in the Far east, especially china.
in accordance with iFrs adopted by other major markets the americas grew theeu.
the company has elected by 3% and europe was at a similar level 3 toprepare its parent company financial to the previous year.
the uK experienced statements in accordance with uK a 9% growth with other regions, GaaP Generally accepted 2 incorporating india, growing at 18%.
in our metrology business segment, revenue grew by 4%, from 305.8m last FinanciaL PerFormance 2013 2012 year to 317.9m this year.
revenue in our % % in this our 40th anniversary year, the healthcare business segment grew by Group has achieved record revenue.
1 Far east 40 39 continued investment in sales and the table on page 29 shows the analysis 2 continental europe 28 29 marketing resource and research of group revenue by geographical market.
anddevelopment activities and the 3 americas 23 23 Geographical analysis of our metrology integration of acquired businesses, 4 uK 6 6 and healthcare segmental businesses combined with lower than expected isshown in the Business reviews earlier 5 other regions 3 3 sales in the second half of the year, in this report.
havehowever resulted in a reduced profit for theyear.
record first half revenue featured very strong sales into ProFit and taX the consumer electronic industry.
the group adjusted profit before tax second half sales in this market did not amounted to 81.5m 2012 86.0m and achieve the levels seen in the first half or represents a return on sales of 23.5% the comparative period last year and compared with 25.9% in the previous such sales remain unpredictable in year.
statutory profit before tax, terms of size and timing.
We have including an exceptional item of 2.9m continued to invest in the Groups referred to on page 30 reported inthe manufacturing and assembly facilities half year financial report, was84.4m, toprovide additional capacity for future compared with 86.0mlast year.
growth whilst maintaining a strong balance sheet.
in this our 40th anniversary year, the Group has achieved record revenue.
WORKinG caPiTal m caPiTal exPenDiTURe m % of revenue Land and buildings Plant and vehicles Allen Roberts Fca 30.3 105.1 28.0 Group Finance director 97.6 75.7 16.5 54.6 16.7 11.0 37.7 21.1 11.1 30.3 30.1 29.4 26.2 7.2 22.0 2.9 3.8 5.4 13.6 6.9 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 29 our metrology business has significantly the final dividend of 28.67p net per as a result, labour costs increased increased its sales and marketing share results in a total dividend for the by12% to 137.3m 2012 122.3m resource and its engineering and year of 40.00p, an increase of 4% over reflecting the additional staffinthe research and development investment the 38.50p in 2012. dividend cover Groups production, sales and marketing, up 16% to 40.2m.
based on adjusted eps is 2.3 times and research and development activities 2.4times when based on statutory eps and the full year cost of staff recruited thebusiness segment has continued and compares with 2.5 times last year.
the integration of additive manufacturing, mdL, renishaw fixtures and the recently research and consoLidated BaLance acquired LBc assets in Germany.
thistogether with additional marketing deVeLoPment sheet and research and development Gross expenditure on engineering costs, the Groups shareholders funds at expenditure has resulted in operating including research and development theend of the year were 278.1m, profit of this business segment reducing onnew products, was 51.8m anincrease of 35.0m over the 243.1m by 8% to 84.5m compared to the 2012 201247.9m.
the capitalisation of at30th June 2012 and comprise an operating profit of 91.8m.
development costs net of amortisation increase in retained reserves.
our healthcare business recorded an charges amounted to 3.1m additions to tangible fixed assets totalled improved position over the previous year 20122.9m, giving a net charge in 28.0m, of which 6.9m was spent on with an operating loss of 5.4m 2012 theconsolidated income statement property and 21.1m on plant and 8.6m loss.
the gross machinery, it equipment and vehicles.
achieved following the reorganisation and charge amounts to 15% of group refocus of the healthcare segment in the the main property additions were: revenue 2012 14%.
We are targeting that this a further 66,000 sq ft have been Between the reportable segments, net segment will achieve at least abreakeven refurbished at our premises at miskin, of the capitalisation costs, 40.2m 2012 position within the next twoyears.
bringing the total square footage in 34.6m was spent in the metrology the overall effective rate of tax, operation to 134,500 or 29% of the segment and 8.5m 2012 10.4m excluding the exceptional item, available space.
the Groups additive spent in our healthcare segment.
was19.1% 2012 19.8% reflecting manufacturing machine production new product research and development acombination of the varying tax rates was relocated to this facility in January expenditure amounted to 33.9m, which applicable throughout the countries of this year.
compares with 33.3m spent last year.
the completion of a 20,000 sq ft theintroduction of the patent box tax there have been a number of new building in York, now occupied rate inthe uK, which took effect from product releases in both our metrology bymdL.
april 2013, made a small contribution and healthcare business segments in ireland, our subsidiary extended toalower tax charge this year but will andthere is an extensive new product their premises by 26,000 sq ft, have an increasing effect as this new pipeline with a number of new expanding their production capacity taxinitiative is phased in.
the effective productintroductions anticipated bymore than 60%.
rate of tax should also benefit in the inthisfinancial year.
future from further reductions in the in canada, a property in ottawa uKtax rate.
GrouP headcount occupied and leased by a group company was purchased.
earninGs Per share ePs Group headcount has increased from at new mills, construction has 2,904 at 30th June 2012 to 3,235 at 30th and diVidend startedon a 120,000 sq ft building June 2013, with the average for the year adjusted eps, excluding the exceptional forour head office and research and of 3,092, compared with 2,765 last year.
development facilities at this site.
the increase of 331 comprised additional statutory eps was 95.4p, compared completion is targeted by the end staff of 265 in the uK and 66 overseas.
GeOGRaPhical analySiS TOTal 2013 revenue 2012 revenue at actual at actual exchange rates exchange rates increase increase 000 000 000 % Far east, including australasia 138,806 130,169 8,637 7% continental europe 96,003 95,702 301 north, south and central america 79,220 76,841 2,379 3% uK and ireland 20,668 18,885 1,783 9% other regions 12,184 10,295 1,889 18% total group revenue 346,881 331,892 14,989 5% Renishaw plc 30 Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance FinanciaL reVieW continued the main additions to plant sheet.
defined benefit pension scheme Weekly groupwide cash management andequipment were: assets at 30th June 2013 increased to reporting and forecasting is in place to 118.8m from 95.2m at 30th June facilitate management of this currency additional machine tools, a new 2012, representing investment risk.
the operations of group treasury, anodising plant and a new surface performance during the year and which is situated at head office, are mount electronic production line have including 5.8m 2012 4.8m introduced governed by Board-approved policies.
been commissioned during the year with the usa scheme.
Pension scheme atmiskin to provide additional all sterling and foreign currency liabilities increased from 137.2m to production capacity.
balances not immediately required 160.5m reflecting the market rates at forgroup operations are placed on Fixtures and fittings associated with 30th June 2013 and 5.5m 2012 5.8m short-term deposit with leading the property developments at miskin relating to the usa scheme.
international highly rated financial and York.
the company has given a guarantee institutions.
regional data centre it equipment regarding the uK defined benefit the Group uses a number of financial toprovide enhanced resilience pension scheme deficit, which is instruments to manage foreign andefficiency to the Groups supported by registered charges over currencyrisk, such as foreign currency itinfrastructure.
certain uK properties and an escrow borrowings to hedge the exposure account with a cash balance of 11.0m intangible fixed assets increased by onthe net assets of the overseas at 30th June 2013 2012 11.5m.
1.7m during the year, from 54.4m to subsidiaries and forward exchange theapplication of iFric 14 increased 56.1m.
additions included capitalised contracts to hedge a significant pension scheme liabilities by 10.3m.
research and development expenditure proportion of anticipated foreign of 3.1m net of annual amortisation For the uK defined benefit pension currency cash inflows.
charges and 0.8m relating to the scheme, a guide to the sensitivity of the there are forward contracts in place purchase of certain business assets of value of the liabilities is as follows: tohedge against the Groups euro, us LBc inGermany to enhance our additive dollar and Japanese Yen cash inflows.
Valuation effect on also, currency contracts are used to sensitivity Valuation liabilities Working capital is closely monitored and minimise the interest cost of maintaining was 30% of revenue in the current year discount rate 0.1% 3.2m the currency borrowings.
the foreign compared to 29% in 2012. inventories currency borrowings are short-term inflation 0.1% 2.7m increased to 65.3m from 54.0m at the withfloating interest rates.
the Group beginning of the year.
safety stocks for does not speculate with derivative certain high volume product lines were acQuisition and financial instruments.
partially depleted at the end of last year eXcePtionaL item following very strong final quarter see note 23 for an analysis of cash revenue and have been replenished balances and currency borrowings in november 2012, the company during the current year.
the production atthe year end.
purchased the remaining 34% of additive manufacturing machines has shareholding in measurement devices been relocated to our production facility inVestment For the Limited mdL for a cash payment at miskin where inventory levels have of4.5m: this was approximately Future been increased to meet future expected 18months earlier than the agreement demand.
trade debtors decreased from over the last six years, the Group has provided for and released an exceptional 83.4m to 68.1m astrade debtors at made a number of small niche-market gain of 2.9m compared to the deferred the end of last year were particularly high acquisitions, which have broadened the consideration liability at 30th June 2012. due to the very strong final quarter Groups range of products and markets on 1st July 2013 mdL was integrated revenue for that yearand the subsequent in both our metrology and healthcare into renishaw plc within the Groups cash being received during this year.
We have also invested laser and calibration product line.
debtor days outstanding at the end of the significantly in expanding our research current year were 62 2012 67 days.
and development resources and our treasurY PoLicies marketing and support infrastructure.
cash balances at 30th June 2013 were the Groups treasury policies are We will continually look to the long-term 26.6m, compared with 21.1m at 30th designed to manage financial risks growth of the Group and to invest in June 2012. cash flows from operating totheGroup that arise from operating r&d, manufacturing and production activities generated 79.6m, compared inanumber of foreign currencies and processes to ensure capacity for the with 67.1m last year.
tomaximise interest income on cash future, and expand our marketing and at the end of the year, the Groups deposits.
as an international group, the support presence around the world.
defined benefit pension schemes, now main exposure is in respect of foreign closed for future accrual, showed a currency risk on the trading transactions deficit of 41.7m, compared with a deficit undertaken by group companies and of 42.0m at 30th June 2012. this year, onthe translation of the net assets of A C g Roberts the Board decided that for the usa overseas subsidiaries.
Fca defined benefit pension scheme, whilst the information below includes the net financial position of the scheme Group Finance director disclosures which are required by is not material 0.3m surplus, the gross iFrsand are an integral part of the 24th July 2013 asset and liability amounts should be financial statements.
reflected in the consolidated balance Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 31 Performance KeY PerFormance indicators the Groups long-term aim is to achieve sustainable growth in revenue and profits inorder to provide an increasing dividend to shareholders.
this is to be achieved through the substantial investment in research and development of new products and processes, the acquisition of niche businesses complementary to and supporting the Groups strategic development aims, the application of technologies into different market areas and the development of its global marketing facilities.
the main financial performance measures monitored by the Board are: TOTal enGineeRinG cOSTS inclUDinG RevenUe GROWTh ReSeaRch anD DevelOPmenT m m 51.8 Gross 2013 346.9 2013 48.7 expenditure 47.9 2012 331.9 2012 included in the 45.0 consolidated income 40.0 statement 2011 288.7 2011 37.1 We are focused on growth in revenue, through increasing our market and the growth of the business is fundamentally dependent on the continuing geographic penetration and continually introducing new products.
We have investment in engineering costs for the development of new products and also made a number of acquisitions over the last two years which expand our processes.
the Group continues to make significant investment in future product range and will support revenue growth by using the Groups worldwide products, with engineering costs equal to approximately 15% of group revenue, marketing and distribution infrastructure to expand these businesses.
and has also been accelerating new product development in certain areas.
aDjUSTeD eaRninGS PeR ShaRe DiviDenD PeR ShaRe Pence Pence 2013 91.4 2013 40.0 2012 95.6 2012 38.5 2011 88.5 2011 35.0 in order to provide an increasing return to shareholders, along with retaining We aim to achieve significant long-term returns to shareholders by adequate funds for reinvestment in the business, we aim to achieve maintaining a progressive dividend policy, whilst maintaining a solid capital year-on-year growth in earnings per share.
base with sufficient working capital to support the forecast growth.
Renishaw plc 32 Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance PrinciPaL risKs and uncertainties area oF risK descriPtion PotentiaL imPact mitiGation revenue growth is unpredictable and orders from customers generally Global market conditions continue to highlight risks the Group is expanding and diversifying its product range in current tradinG LeVeLs involve short lead-times with the outstanding order book at any time togrowth and demand, especially in the Far east, order to maintain a world-leading position in its sales of and order BooK being around one months worth of revenue value.
with a forecast economic slowdown in china, and metrologyproducts.
inthe eurozone, where governments are introducing the Group is applying its measurement expertise to grow its substantial cuts in public expenditure budgets.
against this background, revenue growth for the the Group is integrating recent acquisitions which expand its Group for the year was below expectation and product range in new and complementary market sectors.
futuregrowth is difficult to predict, especially withsuch a short-term order book.
this limited forwardorder visibility leaves the annual revenue forecasts uncertain.
the development of new products and processes involves risk, such as Being at the leading edge of new technology in Patent and intellectual property generation is core to new research and deVeLoPment development timescales, meeting the required technical specification and metrology and healthcare, there are uncertainties productdevelopments.
r&d the impact of alternative technology developments.
whether new developments will provide an r&d programmes are regularly reviewed against milestones economicreturn.
andforecast business plans and, when necessary, projects arecancelled.
new products involve beta testing at customers to ensure they will meet the needs of the market.
market developments are closely monitored.
customer deliveries may be threatened by a failure in the supply chain.
inability to meet customer deliveries could result Production facilities are maintained with fire and flood risk in mind.
suPPLY chain inloss of revenue and profit.
critical production processes are replicated at different locations manaGement where practical.
regular vendor reviews are performed for critical part suppliers.
stock policies are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
Product quality is closely monitored.
the expansion of the Groups business into the healthcare markets regulatory approval can be very expensive and specialist legal and regulatory staff have been recruited to reGuLatorY LeGisLation involves a significantly increased requirement to obtain regulatory time-consuming.
this area is also very complex support the healthcare business.
For heaLthcare Products approval prior to the sale of these products.
andthere is a risk that the correct approvals are a new non-executive director has been appointed to the Board notobtained.
healthcare operations in uK and France have iso 13485 certification for their quality management systems.
investment returns and actuarial valuations of the defined benefit pension Volatility in investment returns and actuarial the investment strategy is managed by the pension scheme deFined BeneFit scheme liabilities are subject to economic and social factors which are assumptions can significantly affect the defined trustees who operate in line with a statement of investment Pension schemes outside of the control of the Group.
benefit pension scheme deficits, impacting on future principles which is agreed by the company.
recovery plans are in place for the 2006 and 2009 actuarial valuations.
the 2012 actuarial valuation and investment strategy is currently under review with the pension scheme trustees.
Fluctuating foreign exchange rates may affect the results of the Group.
With over 94% of revenue generated outside the Group enters into forward contracts in order to hedge treasurY oftheuK, there is an exposure to major currency varying proportions of forecast us dollar, euro and fluctuations, mainly in respect of the us dollar, euro Japanese Yen revenue.
such fluctuations could adversely the Group uses currency borrowings and swap contracts to impact both the Groups income statement and hedge the foreign currency denominated assets held in the balance sheet.
Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 33 area oF risK descriPtion PotentiaL imPact mitiGation revenue growth is unpredictable and orders from customers generally Global market conditions continue to highlight risks the Group is expanding and diversifying its product range in current tradinG LeVeLs involve short lead-times with the outstanding order book at any time togrowth and demand, especially in the Far east, order to maintain a world-leading position in its sales of and order BooK being around one months worth of revenue value.
Renishaw plc 34 Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance corPorate sociaL resPonsiBiLitY We, at renishaw, seek excellence in this year has been a successful year, PeoPLe every aspect of our business and are both in business and from a csr diVersitY committed to managing our business in perspective, with record numbers of renishaw is an equal opportunities a responsible manner.
We recognise we apprentices and graduates working with employer, operating a strict nonhave a responsibility to our employees, us.
We have been awarded the carbon discrimination policy.
We offer an the communities and the environment trust standard, donated more time and environment that actively promotes within which we operate.
We recognise money than ever to local and national innovation and progress within which that our operations, products and charities and community groups, individual talents can flourish.
as can sourcing have both direct and indirect reduced ourwaste going to landfill, beseen by Figure 1 we have a diverse environmental impacts.
We believe by significantly expanded our locations mix of ages and gender.
Proper minimising our environmental impacts around the world, managed a minimal consideration is given to applications and operating in an ethical and increase of our energy usage and begun foremployment from disabled people sustainable manner we are able to the process of developing a new waste who are employed, where suitable, for minimise risks in our supply chain, management plan to ensure we are appropriate vacancies.
opportunities andbe a force for good within our minimising our waste.
We aim to develop aregiven to employees who become communities.
We regard legal a formal csr strategy over the next disabled to continue in their employment compliance to be the minimum standard fewmonths with associated targets.
or to be trained for other positions.
of operation throughout all of our global Webelieve that as a responsible See Fig 1. below right operations.
to further the excellent work business we should be as transparent we have been undertaking in these as possible and as such we will be staFFretention areas, we have recently appointed a reporting on our progress against our at renishaw we have promoted an corporate social responsibility manager targets.
this year will be a year of putting excellent working atmosphere that who will coordinate all the csr activities many systems and methodologies into encourages our employees to stay with across the globe and enable us to place, and formalising best practice us.
ouruK staff turnover rate at 3.2% isalmost half theuK manufacturing continue to be recognised collectively across the Group to ensure we are best industry national average, and is and individually as leaders and placed tomeet our targets.
contributors in our field and all the communities within which we operate.
2. below right Werecognise the hard work and dedication of our employees by offering on-site gyms, flexible working for the majority of uK employees allowing a better work life balance, subsidised restaurants at the most populous uK locations and a high-quality crche at our facility in Pune, india.
our uK employees volunteer to run a sports and social club which offers discounted events and tickets for employees and their families.
a group performance bonus programme is available to all qualifying staff members.
Ben Taylor ceng, Fimeche 82 94 assistant chief executive record number of record summer apprentices in training placement intake 55 apprentices have obtained Bachelor of engineering degrees over the past 10 years Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 35 communication and a suggestion scheme exists with 1 ParticiPation awardsfor the best ideas received, plusan inventors award scheme for in the Gloucestershire locations, close to individuals who are named as inventors their respective birthdays, staff members on patent applications that are are invited to attend a communications subsequently granted.
meeting at which Board members are present.
these meetings provide staff traininG and deVeLoPment with information about developments the maintenance of a highly skilled within the Group and give them the workforce is essential to the future of the opportunity to ask any questions of the business and the directors place great Board in an open discussion forum.
emphasis on the continuation of the acopy of the presentation and companys approved training policy.
1 renishaw manufacturing sites were chosen responses to questions raised at these for a location shoot by leading photographer during the year examples of expenditure meetings are made available to all martin Parr, as part of a project to portray on staff training include 290,000 worldwide staff via the Groups intranet.
this will culminate onapprenticeships and 450,000 Following the announcement of half year inan exhibition next year at mshed, Bristol oncentrally administered crossand annual financial results, all staff in departmental training.
overall, this Gloucestershire and other key sites via amounts to a 94% increase in our videoconference are also invited to training budget from last year.
attend a series of presentations given 2 bythe assistant chief executive.
a strength of the company throughout its history has been the encouragement a worldwide staff newsletter Probity of young talent, with an apprenticeship ispublished every two months, with scheme started in 1979 and sponsored contributions encouraged from across student scheme in 1984. during this the Group.
Printed copies are produced summer, some 94 students 2012 80 for manufacturing areas and distributed entered renishaw for paid placements to pensioners in the renishaw uK 60 summer placements, 30 one-year pension scheme.
throughout the year industrial placements and four other company updates and items felt to pre-university placements amongst be of interest toemployees are regularly which the most promising students will communicated via email.
be given financial incentives to maintain the company encourages business 2 ollie counsell, a 2nd year renishaw apprentice, a relationship with the company into the was named apprentices apprentice of the Year participation through direct employee future.
there are 71 craft and technical by attendees of Gloucestershire engineering feedback, either to immediate apprentices currently in training 2012 51 training image courtesy Gloucestershire supervisors or Board members.
and 40 new starters confirmed for media employee work forums exist and september 2013. a further 55 recent representatives liaise with management graduates also started with renishaw on employee matters.
annual individual this summer 2012 40. appraisals are also held across the Group which give employees a formal opportunity to feed back their thoughts about the Group, including a survey that enables us to measure employee satisfaction on a range of issues.
UK STaff TURnOveR % renishaw uK staff turnover rate 2011 2012 2013 15.3 uK staff aged 25 13.3% 13.5% 13.7% 12.4 3.2% staff aged 25 - 49 66.3% 64.5% 64.6% 9.5 9.3 8.0 7.0 7.0 uK average staff turnover rate 6.0 uK staff aged 50 20.4% 22.0% 21.7% 5.5 3.2 Female 23.7% 23.7% 22.6% 8.0% source: chartered institute of Personnel male 76.3% 76.3% 77.4% anddevelopment manufacturing and 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 production sector Renishaw plc 36 Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance ProVidinG GLoBaL suPPort marKetPLace the renishaw mission: renishaw will design, manufacture and supply metrology systems of the highest quality and reliability to enable customers worldwide to carry out dimensional measurements to traceable standards.
the Featured oFFices our product offerings will enhance quality are eXamPLes oF our andproductivity, and we will strive for total GLoBaL reach customer satisfaction through superior customer service.
our aim is to provide leading-edge technology by encouraging mississauGa, canada innovation to address our customers needs.
to ensure we can achieve this mission we have reflected our global customer base with a significant global presence of locations, withnew offices, service centres and hoFFman manufacturing facilities being acquired and estates, usa opened year-on-year.
in this reporting year wehave opened or extended sites in south Wales, York, ireland and china.
renishaW Locations san Pedro Garza Garca, meXico 1 6 22 uK and ireLand Far east so PauLo, BraziL 18 9 continentaL euroPe americas BarceLona, sPain neW miLLs, uK 8 rest oF WorLd Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 37 numBer oF customers serViced 18,999 Pune, BeiJinG, honG KonG, toKYo, PLiezhausen, JrFLLa, GermanY sWeden india china china JaPan Renishaw plc 38 Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance corPorate sociaL resPonsiBiLitY continued in the past year, for example, we their first team players visiting our miskin communitY havesponsored and helped judge factory.
in Gloucestershire we are a renishaw is one of the largest employers Gloucestershire Business of the sponsor of dursley rugby club with in the west of england and we recognise Yearawards, stroud Life awards, which many of our staff and their families the positive role that we can play through Gloucestershire apprentice of the Year are connected, and we also continue our ongoing relationships with the local awards and the Bristol Post business toforge close links with Gloucester community, businesses, schools awards.
senior managers, including rugby club, which plays in the english andsports organisations.
With the Group engineering director, Geoff Premiership League, sponsoring the recognised national shortage in the mcFarland, have given conference clubs england international player uKof skilled engineers and scientists, presentations about additive Benmorgan and the Young Player of the we also continue to communicate a manufacturing, whilst in June 2013, Year award, which is voted on by our positive story about the role of science, rhydian Pountney, General manager Gloucestershire staff.
engineering and manufacturing in roW sales, won the ambassador Bristol international Balloon Fiesta is enhancing the lives of the general award at the south West international europes largest ballooning event and populace and the attractions of a trade awards, recognising his we continue to be a member of its careerwithin these sectors.
contribution to various events promoting corporate 100 club which funds the export trade and his membership of the throughout the year we therefore host fiesta to keep it a free entry event for advanced engineering sector advisory tour groups and give talks to a range visitors.
during the year we also started Board ofthe uK Governments trade & oforganisations including schools, a three-year sponsorship of a hot air investment body uKti and the uKti universities, business clubs and balloon which flies at events across the Fco Foreign & commonwealth office societies, such as rotary, Probus west region of england, helping to raise overseas Business risk Joint andu3a.
We also offer the use of the companys profile and funds for local advisoryGroup.
ourfacilities to business groups and charities.
the inaugural launch took inthe past year we have hosted the during the year we sponsored and place from Gloucester rugby clubs international conference of istma actively contributed to numerous stadium in July 2012, with Ben morgan theinternational special tooling and festivals, including stroud international on board.
machining association and Business textiles, where seminars explored the a key reason why we decided to work West, Gloucestershires special increasing influence of textiles within with exclusive Ballooning, the operators roundtable discussion with hm treasury engineering and science, and the of the renishaw balloon, was that they for regionalbusinesses.
cheltenham design Festival, where we are believed to be the uKs only sponsored a session that looked at the We actively support the business company licensed to take passengers design challenges faced by large scale community regionally, nationally and inwheelchairs.
one such user was power generation projects.
We also internationally, through membership nigelholland, who has  the nibley music Festival, oftrade associations such as the uKs tooth disease, also known as hereditary where the renishaw stage provides a manufacturing technologies association motor and sensory neuropathy, which platform for young acts in the early stage and Germanys VdW, as well as local causes wastage of the muscles in the of their careers, and the Wychwood chambers of trade and business lower part of the arms and legs.
nigel music Festival at cheltenham networking groups.
We impart our appeared on national tV after setting racecourse in Gloucestershire.
knowledge and business expertise himself a target of 50 things to do before inareas as diverse as exporting, We are continuing to build our he was 50, oneof which was to fly in a humanresource management and relationship with local and professional hot air balloon see www.
itsystems, through participation in sports clubs in areas where we have hisexperiences, including the flight, roundtable discussions and business operations, including english appear in a book about his exploits conferences, and also sponsoring Premiership League football club published in march 2013. awardprogrammes.
swansea city Fc, which led to two of 1 2 3 1 Left to right Ben taylor renishaw, Ben morgan and chris Pockett renishaw 2 renishaw balloon launch at Gloucester rugbyclub 3 swansea Fc visit miskin Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 39 nigel holland achieves one of his 50-List after completing a wheelchair flight inthe renishawballoon the company and the rcc charitY recognisesthat large numbers of over 20 years ago, the company renishaw employees assist charitable created the renishaw charities organisations and therefore encourages committee rcc to distribute funds such activities through match-funding tosupport charitable and voluntary WooDCHEsTER programmes, both for individual and organisations, and to support the RoCKs!
in the latter individual charitable efforts of staff case, the rcc fully matches funds staff across through a match-funding scheme.
Renishaws uK sites raised by staff for the national initiatives raised money for thercc is made up of staff children in need, movember, comic Children in need, representatives from the companys relief and Wear it Pink.
employee which was match main Gloucestershire sites and has a communications from the company funded by the RCC, particular focus to assist organisations raising a total of andthe rccs intranet pages also that help enrich the lives of children and 6,900 include details of charities seeking adults, from toddler groups and sports support for fundraising activities or clubs, through to organisations that inneed of trustees, and promotional support the disabled and the bereaved.
posters for fundraising events are a separate fund is also administered by distributed to company noticeboards.
the rcc, which donates monies to aid during the year, significant donations the victims of global disasters.
of2,000 or greater were made by the during the year the rcc rcc to eight organisations.
com charity made included a5,000 donation to the donations to around 170 individual national star college, based near organisations totalling over 83,000. cheltenham, Gloucestershire, which is Beneficiaries were diverse in nature an excellent specialist college that works including scout and brownie groups, with children who have physical, sensory schools, infant playgroups, meningitis orlearning difficulties to enable them and cancer research organisations, toprepare for the best that adult life can carers support groups, airambulance offer.
a 2,000 donation was also made groups, youth football clubs for boys and towards a skate park being developed girls, food banks, organisations providing by the stonehouse Youth Partnership.
transport for senior citizen and disabled groups andhospice care organisations.
Renishaw plc 40 Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance corPorate sociaL resPonsiBiLitY continued withus before they take up their did on a day-to-day basis.
We have supported some very positive feedback and the company has a fundamental aim to theGFirst Local enterprise Partnership changed the preconceptions of many nurture the next generation of engineers initiative challenge 2013 to work ofthe girls on how exciting a career and scientists and during the past 12 withover 2,500 school children in inengineering would be.
months has taken steps to accelerate 40Gloucestershire primary schools.
this year we have invited schools engagement with the educational sector.
renishaw was one of six engineering tocome to our new mills site to have one in five young people will need to companies that partnered with six an opportunity to take apart some become an engineer if the uK has any primary schools to work with the pupils everyday equipment such as mobile chance of addressing the severe skill in a one day workshop to introduce phones, printers and cameras shortages.
our education Liaison computer programming.
the pupils executive has continued to strengthen toseehow they have been made.
learned some basic coding and then our links with local colleges, schools, thesetechnology teardowns have used this knowledge to program a robot universities and science, technology always been very popular with our new they had devised from a construction kit.
engineering and maths stem graduates and summer placements and the best team of three pupils were then enrichment organisations across the invited to renishaw and presented with this year we decided to extend this to nation.
the aims are to encourage stem a certificate and a gift.
at the time of writing teaching and out-of-school clubs, to we have had four local schools attend We have provided many talks to schools raise the profile of renishaw as a and the pupils enjoyed the opportunity to encourage their pupils to take stem potential employer and to ensure that to find out how something they use subjects.
one issue in the uK is that only we attract the most talented individuals.
frequently was designed, with 6% of the engineering workforce is the company also continued its policy experienced engineers on hand to made up of women, so we try and of opening its doors to visits from explain the design and engineering encourage more to think about a career primary schools, secondary schools and aspects.
they all go away with a much in engineering.
one example of this is universities from the uK and overseas.
better idea of what an engineer does.
caroline hughes, one of our graduates, this year, one-week work experience who gave talks during the year to two We have contributed 50% funding to placements were given to over 73 girls schools, monmouth Girls school convert a transit van into a mobile students under the age of 18, as well and Badminton school, on her journey laboratory for rednock school.
asfour students spending a gap year to becoming an engineer and what she 1 2 3 1 rednock school science teacher Ben hall with students and the new mobile laboratory 2 Welsh students visit miskin 3 uK chancellor of the exchequer, George osborne, meets renishaw apprentice, Jasmine shellard at Gloucestershire engineering training Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 41 has achieved so much during her nine years at renishaw.
she was sponsored toundergo nVQ training and a Btec national certificate as part of her apprenticeship.
she has since gone onto be sponsored to complete a Foundation degree in mechatronic engineering and completed her Bachelor in engineering degree with 1st class honours.
Lucy recommends this route through education to everyone, especially girls considering their next stages in education.
shebelieves in it so much she also finds time to be a Young engineers ambassador, a stem ambassador, aBig Bang Fair Judge for school stem projects, and a Big Bang Fair moderator.
she also runs alocal engineering after school club.
Lucy illustrates the value that renishaw, puts Aged just 25, Lucy Ackland has When at the Kings school in on the development ofour staff and the gone through an exciting journey as Gloucester, Lucy was expected to way in which we encourage our staff to she has progressed from a young achieve excellent grades at Gcse and give back to the community through 16-year-old engineering apprentice chose, despite opposition, to apply for educational links.
at Renishaw, to her current role as a an engineering apprenticeship.
Lucy Process Engineering Project See more at Manager.
com this helps the school with its outreach For our stand at the Big Bang Fair, one of over double the amount of work to feeder primary schools, as well of our software engineers designed a applications for our apprenticeships from Lego maze that was mounted on one the previousyear.
as being an important resource for the ofour equator machines.
the mobile laboratory will raise Greenpower is a national organisation joystick, young people and sometimes the profile and popularity of science in dedicated to inspiring future engineers.
attempted to complete the school and wider community, and they run competitions for primary and themaze in the quickest time possible.
allow residential field trips to have a vital secondary schools to design, build and aprize was awarded each day for the resource to bring learning to life.
it is race battery powered cars.
We had over 2,000 people play hoped that this will also improve the september renishaw sponsored the the game and we were able to showcase uptake of Gcse triple sciences and, Western regional heats at the castle renishaw, and raise our profile to a large inturn, the uptake of a-level Physics.
in may 2013 audience of people.
we were pleased to host Greenpowers We sponsor numerous activities that We will also be attending the Big Bang Goblin class regional event for primary aimto inspire young engineers, such cymru in the summer as we wish to school pupils in Bristol and Bath, asthe Brunel institutes Young Brunels work more closely with Welsh schools to whoraced their battery powered initiative, where every year, 12 children encourage them to consider renishaw vehicles around a car park at our new are selected to join a five-year scheme as we develop our miskin site.
itisgreat to see tomentor them towards a career in this process with two education days in somany young people engaging in science and engineering.
Further events october 2012 held at our new miskin engineering and seeing the sense of include the careering around initiative factory.
over 650 school, college and achievement they have from taking organised by the cheltenham science university students were able to see our partin the races and being part Festival, and the engineering education machine shop in action, as well as all our ofaracing team.
as part of the latter products in one of the largest exhibition event, two of our young graduates We launched the renishaw engineering stands that we have ever set up.
mentored projects at monmouth school experience in conjunction with Young and chepstow school, with the former We have attended many school careers engineers this year.
this is a nationwide project winning the award for Best evenings in schools in Gloucestershire competition with the winners able to application and was entered as a and south Wales as well as the skills experience a week visiting engineering finalistat the national Big Bang uK Fest held at Gloucester rugbys companies culminating with a day at scientists and engineers Fair held Kingsholm stadium.
Previous winners have been inLondon in 2013. all the work we have done with schools encouraged to study engineering at this year have contributed to the receipt university again we see this as a way Renishaw plc 42 Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance corPorate sociaL resPonsiBiLitY continued to enthuse more young people to programming.
during the year 94 staff the refurbishment of our miskin site is consider careers in stem-related from across the Group benefitted from nearing completion and has thus far subjects.
academy training, plus many more who included a 100,000 investment in very made use of e-learning programmes high standard Pilkington energiKare We also attended the Gloucester motor available as part of our new learning triple glazed low-emissivity glass show for the second year.
this show management system Lms in which we windows with Krypton gas filling, to attracts family visitors and they enjoy have made a significant investment.
the achieve a u-value of just 0.9. a new attending our stand and taking part in Lms software is used for the building in York for our product line mdL the activities available as well as learning administration, documentation, tracking has been built to the highest standards about the company and the career and reporting of training programmes, of the Building research establishments opportunities that we have.
classroom and online events, e-learning environmental assessment method We have been working with universities programmes and training content.
Breeam, a rating system which is to ensure that we get the best talent recognised nationally and internationally forour business.
this summer we had as the most robust and rigorous method the enVironment over60 students from a wide range for assessing the environmental renishaw takes its responsibilities for the ofuniversities join us and those that performance of buildings.
environment seriously and continues to dowellwill be offered a bursary.
as renishaw consumed more than make further investments to improve its Wearealso taking 30 students on 6megawatts of electricity in 2008, we performance in relation to energy anindustrial year before they return are bound by uK legislation to comply consumption, water usage, emissions touniversity fortheir last year of study.
with the crc energy efficiency scheme and disposal of waste materials.
the again they maybe offered sponsorship formerly known as the carbon company continues to monitor and and encouragement to join our highly reduction commitment and have control its energy consumption, as successful graduate programme.
to recognise the previously reported, with an additional We attended more career fairs than progress made in recent years by emphasis upon expanding its data everthis year, gave talks on employability monitoring usage and reducing our co collection scope and accuracy.
to students and had several universities emissions, we have recently been enerGY visit us for lectures and tours.
We have awarded the carbon trust standard.
in the uK, installation of half-hourly attended several poster days at emissions FiG.
1 metering for electricity consumption is universities, to see the student final unless otherwise stated, the analysis ongoing, with a target of hhm for gas, yearprojects and to find potential inFigure 1 includes the Groups global electricity and water at all of our uK sites futuretalent.
operations for the 12-month period within the next financial year, giving us We are a sponsor of a Postgraduate 1stJune 2012 to 31st may 2013. the ability to identify opportunities for research symposium at imperial reduced consumption.
investments our carbon footprint has been restated college, London, where we help judge have also continued to be made in our for last year in order to account for and award prizes for the best projects.
monitoring equipment to identify significant changes to the conversion specificpeaks in electricity usage, Within renishaw we also run our own factors provided by the uK department applications academy which offers quantify reductions and make of environment, Food and rural affairs, continuous improvements across avaried training curriculum from the calculation methods used and the Face-to-Face communications and various sites.
additionally, recent expansion of scope of data capture for investments are allowing us to monitor report Writing, to the Fundamentals company reporting purposes.
of manufacturing and cnc gas and water usage at our main uK sites, allowing these energy streams tobe similarly reduced.
GReenhOUSe GaS GhG emiSSiOnS co tonnes 2 sCoPE 3 sCoPE 1 Gas consumption 1,467.01 Business travel 6,837.43 owned transport 1,443.57 Product distribution 3,545.49 Generator diesel 24.91 raw metal purchase 4,020.35 heating oil 61.45 Post communications 500.13 out of scope bio fuel blend 37.42 transmission and distribution 1,412.21 total scope 1 2,996.94 Wtt total 3,022.83 sCoPE 2 out of scope bio fuel blend 12.18 total significant scope 3 19,338.44 Purchased electricity 13,456.36 total scope 2 13,456.36 uK only Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 43 the measurement of the overall impact byhosting a specific area on the of carbon emissions within the Group company intranet and through the isvery complex given the geography circulation of regular emails that remind and scope of operations and in some staff of the benefits of car sharing.
cases estimates have been made Wealso provide showers, lockers forsome markets where data is not andsecure bike storage areas for any readilyavailable.
members of staff who want to cycle intowork.
our total recorded carbon footprint has increased by 16% from the previous Waste manaGement FiG.
2 reporting period 2012 30,745 tonnes renishaw has continued to analyse co e: 2013 35,791 tonnes co e. waste streams and strives to increase recycling and reduce amounts sent to this increase is due to three significant landfill, notably paper, cardboard, plastic changes, a 16% increase in gas usage, cups, toner cartridges and batteries.
a12% increase in electricity usage and analysis of the waste streams at the a241% increase in business travel.
collection point for waste metal produced from significant uK sites shows a 27% aswe invest for the future by expanding machining processes at the new mills site decrease in waste to landfill.
although our sites, including this year in china, our total waste from our significant uK York and miskin, south Wales, it is waste producing sites has increased by understandable that our energy 51% over the past four reporting periods, consumption will increase as a result.
our waste to landfill has decreased by as the renishaw Group continues to 5.6% in the same period.
it is also worth develop globally, more business travel noting that during this time the company will be undertaken as a consequence.
has gone through significant expansion REDUCING CO2 travel for internal business requirements YEAR ON YEAR andmanufacturing has increased is minimised by providing web considerably as has the number of sites conferencing facilities and putting in CARBon TRusT sTAnDARD to be considered.
also, through this time, place a rigorous approval system to much renovation and expansion of sites Renishaw plc has been certified to the Carbon ensure the travel is essential.
as part has been undertaken, which significantly Trust standard.
The award, earned every two ofour budget controls we mandate years, recognises the work undertaken by contributes to our waste production.
economy travel as standard for short theCompany across all operations and is reduction of waste at source is seen independent confirmation that Renishaw plc and medium haul flights, which in has genuinely measured, managed and asa key contributor to overall waste turnensures our carbon impact is kept reduced its carbon emissions reduction.
continuing efforts are being to a minimum.
made to distribute both technical and although not included within these sales documentation in electronic format standard Government measures, and we no longer distribute user guides wecontinue to recognise that there is to our customers for our encoder asignificant impact caused by staff products, as up-to-date guides are driving to our Gloucestershire sites.
available through a special support there is very limited public transportation website.
regular marketing serving these sites and therefore we communications with customers in our actively encourage car sharing through main markets are now solely by email, lift-share notices in communal areas, and our employee newsletter Probity fiG.
2. lanDfill TOTalS DaTa fOR SiGnificanT UK WaSTe PRODUcinG SiTeS tonnes olD ToWn WooDCHEsTER nEW Mills sTonEHousE 2013 12.7 2013 54.5 2013 41.4 2013 37.4 2012 9.2 2012 68.7 2012 78.2 2012 42.9 2011 18.2 2011 48.3 2011 56.6 2011 43.6 2010 46.0 2010 38.9 2010 52.2 2010 17.6 2010 total 2011 total 2012 total 2013 total 154.7 tonnes 166.7 tonnes 199 tonnes 146 tonnes Renishaw plc 44 Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance corPorate sociaL resPonsiBiLitY continued analysis of the waste streams at the significant uK sites shows a 27% decrease in waste to landfill.
although our total waste from our significant uK waste producing sites has increased by 51% over the past four reporting CHARiTy During the year periods, our waste to landfill has decreased by 5.6% the Renishaw Charities Committee inthe same period.
made donations to 170 individual organisations Waste manaGement FiG.
2 Following a reportable accident at heaLth and saFetY continued renishaws stone site in February 2012 renishaw has a corporate health and renishaw was investigated by the uK isprimarily distributed electronically, safety management system that is health and safety executive hse witha small quantity printed for supported by its corporate health and resulting in legal proceedings for a manufacturing sites.
as our employees are breach of health and safety legislation renishaw staff no longer receive essential to our business we record all relating to thehandling of dangerous hardcopy pay slips but can access injuries from the smallest of paper cuts substances and a subsequent 7,000 these electronically.
to the most serious of incidents.
this was the first such thisallows us to highlight any areas commercial documentation, such as prosecution in renishaws history and ofour business where injuries may invoices and acknowledgements, is also we worked closely with the hse to occurand take appropriate action.
available through a paperless facility, introduce all required changes to internal with customers encouraged to accept heaLth and saFetY statistics procedures.
0.049 accidents per person occuPationaL heaLth although only one of the Groups 16% decrease in accidents renishaw has had no work-related products currently falls within the scope ill-health or diseases reported in 69% of all accidents are very minor of the requirements of the european thisyear.
injuries directive 2002 95 ec on the restriction health monitoring in the form of lung of the use of hazardous substances 100 h&s inductions function testing anodising staff, hearing rohs, all new position encoder 650 h&s training sessions testing for those in higher noise level products and the majority of legacy the total number of accidents for the areas and eye testing for Vdu users encoder products are now rohs period was 161 against a headcount and some manufacturing staff has compliant.
We are continuing to develop of3,235.
this equates to an accident beenestablished for several years and implement processes for other ratioof 0.05 accidents per person andisongoing.
metrology products to ensure that they andis16% down on the same period will meet the extended scope of the health support for uK staff is offered the year before, despite an 8% increase directive which will be implemented in inthe form of subsidised uK health in staffinglevels.
the vast majority 2017, whilst achieving several earlier monitoring blood pressure, diabetes, oftheseaccidents are minor cuts dates for healthcare products.
to date more than accounting for 111 69% of allaccidents 400 employees have taken advantage of We are continuing to work hard to during the period.
training continues this at our Gloucestershire sites and the meetthe requirements of the european totake place in order to reduce this intention isto roll this out across the uK.
directive on the registration, evaluation, statisticfurther.
authorisation and restriction of incidents near misses rePortaBLe accidents chemicals reach and to date no a new electronic system of reporting there was one accident that was substances of very high concern andcollating incidents near misses reportable under riddor in which an sVhc have been identified in our wasintroduced over the period and employee removed a bag from a waste products at a level requiring any action.
hasresulted in a total of 57 recorded bin and pulled muscles in her back.
to co-ordinate our activities with regard occurrences.
thisresulted in a total of 205 hrs to compliance with both rohs and 32.5 days absence.
reach directives, we have a dedicated project manager who manages risk assessments and information gathering from suppliers.
