Business and financial review suzAnne WOOd GeOFF drABBle introduction Our strategy Why Are We MAinly in the us?
The last financial year has been We are predominantly in the US because of the growth opportunities there.
At the most basic level, the US our best to date and we expect market is five times bigger than the UK.
There has also been significant underinvestment in US infrastructure, even better to come.
We have a situation which simply has to change.
As we are a key supplier of equipment used in infrastructure construction, seen strong performance in that means the market for our services can only grow.
both our US and UK markets In addition, the still relatively low level of rental penetration in the US compared to the UK Figure 2: US and UK rental while the economies remain penetration and the increasing trend towards rental provide significant opportunities for us.
Rental penetration challenging, particularly in is only approaching 50% in the US while it is already at the UK.
Renting equipment rather than owning and maintaining it reduces contractors risk and helps them Continuing the trend of recent years, performance has protect their own balance sheet.
It has become increasingly been particularly strong in the US.
At a time when our worthwhile for contractors to move to a more outsourced main market of US construction still remains at historically model of equipment provision.
low levels Figure 1: US construction markets remain at The US rental industry is still a young and fragmented historical lows, we have beaten all our previous records industry.
It is also a capital intensive one.
We need to across all our metrics.
The extent of our success may invest regularly in fleet to ensure it remains of the highest appear counterintuitive given the cyclical nature of our standard and in the best condition.
After an average of business.
Thus the question is, how have we managed seven or eight years, equipment becomes old and needs to do this and what does it mean for our future performance?
It can also become obsolete.
Our ability Over the next few pages we will aim to explain exactly to invest in the fleet while our smaller, less well-financed how this has happened and where we think we are going.
competitors have been either constrained or have failed, We are very excited about the future.
has positioned us strongly as more customers have turned to rental.
There will continue to be opportunities for us in a market where the more resilient players are likely to get bigger and stronger.
We have worked hard over recent years to cement the benefits of the structural change taking place in the US rental market.
8 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 CeMentinG the BeneFits OF struCturAl ChAnGe Breaking performance records when the market has yet to recover FIG 1: US CONSTRUCTION MARKETS REMAIN AT HISTORICAL LOWS 2005 $BN 1,100 950 800 650 500 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 SOURCE: MAXIMUS ADVISORS FIG 2: US AND UK RENTAL PENETRATION % US UK 75 75 75 60 60 60 50 45 45 45 30 30 25 15 15 0 0 00 11 14E US 12 potential SOURCE: KAPLAN ASSOCIATES MANAGEMENT ESTIMATES Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 9 From a cyclical perspective the timing of our purchase of NationsRent was far from ideal.
But from the perspective of capitalising on the structural change in the US market, it could not have been better.
tiMinG WAs everythinG reAdy FOr the upturn Our current position and our ongoing strategy both Figure 3: US construction and Sunbelt fleet on rent, stem from our 2006 acquisition of NationsRent.
When demonstrates our current position relative to the market.
the recession set in after the deal was done, it no longer Our main construction market is still not showing many looked like the right time to be expanding.
But while our signs of a return to growth after consistently large falls market contracted, the downturn brought positives for each year since 2007.
However, our fleet on rent has the enlarged Sunbelt business.
Extremely tight credit been increasing steadily since 2010 and has grown at market conditions accelerated the trend to rent as well a rate of 13% over the last financial year.
Figure 4: US as consolidation across the rental industry.
Apart from equipment rental revenue, provides an approximate our main competitors United Rentals which acquired extrapolation of the level of potential growth in rental RSC in 2012 and HERC, the US rental market still as the construction market itself returns to growth.
remains comprised of many, much smaller players.
We have worked hard to ensure we have enough fleet Only the strongest of these have survived the extended of the right quality to be able to meet demand as growth economic downturn with competitive operating models.
returns to our main construction market.
Figure 5: FinAnCiAl resOurCes Sunbelt vs rental industry spend, shows the level of The length of the recession has meant that customers our spending on fleet relative to the industry as a whole.
and competitors, who may have had competitive Since 2009 we have increased our spending year-on-year equipment when the downturn began, have seen those to take full advantage of the structural change.
We have assets age over time.
Continuing tight credit conditions consistently spent more relatively than our competitors meant they were unable to replace those assets.
This and that is now obvious in the size and age of our fleet.
resulted in either lost business or them having to look Our strong performance in the first three quarters of last elsewhere to source quality equipment.
Meanwhile, our year enabled us to bring forward around $100m of fleet prudent financial management ensured our balance expenditure previously planned for fiscal 2014 into the sheet was strong enough to support us during the bad fourth quarter.
times and provide us with first-mover advantage once Despite our high level of capital expenditure, the level signs of recovery were visible.
We have been investing of our debt remains low relative to our fleet size.
The heavily in our fleet to ensure that the industrys weakness strength of our balance sheet has enabled us to maintain has become our strength.
As we have reported before, flexibility.
We are now in the best possible position to we wanted to be in a position to capitalise on both the capitalise on opportunities, ahead of a return to growth quickening pace of structural change and the market in our end markets.
Our fleet is in optimal condition and overall when it returned to growth.
we have the financial resources to grow our network and service offering as the market expands, and thereby gain significant market share.
The last two years of marketleading growth in the business, despite the market still suffering, have proved the efficacy of our strategy.
10 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 FIG 4: US EQUIPMENT RENTAL REVENUE $BN ACTUAL FORECAST 50 40 30 20 10 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 SOURCE: IHS GLOBAL INSIGHT FIG 3: US CONSTRUCTION AND SUNBELT FLEET ON RENT TOTAL US CONSTRUCTION SPEND 2005 $BN SUNBELT FLEET ON RENT $M 1,000 1,700 900 1,600 800 1,500 700 1,400 600 1,300 500 07 08 09 10 11 12 SOURCE: MAXIMUS ADVISORS MANAGEMENT INFORMATION FIG 5: SUNBELT VS RENTAL INDUSTRY SPEND RENTAL INDUSTRY CAPITAL EXPENDITURE $BN SUNBELT AS % OF INDUSTRY TOTAL 15 16 14 12 12 10 9 8 6 6 4 3 2 0 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 SOURCE: IHS GLOBAL INSIGHT, MANAGEMENT INFORMATION Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 FIG 6: perFOrMAnCe ThrOuGh The CyCle 2007 2008 2009 2010 Strong market Rightsizing Running tight Benefitting from structural change preparation for of the business business downturn Revenue $m 1,6261,450 1,081 1,2251 1,507, 820 1,308 Fleet age months 34 36 30 32 38 46 44 Fleet size $m 2,147 2,3142,136 2,094 2,1512 2,453, 868 EBITDA margin % 36 37 35 32 32 36 41 Return on investment % 19 19 14 6 92 20 5 US construction market 2005 $bn 1,006897 776 6956 650 94 1,066 Excluding goodwill.
FIG 7: US CONSTRUCTION GROWTH FORECASTS % 12 8 4 0 -4 -8 -12 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 SOURCE: MAXIMUS ADVISORS neW ACquisiTiOn The acquisition of JMR in 2013 adds oil and gas services to our existing specialty services of pump & power, scaffolding, pile driving, temperature control, traffic control, acrow and industrial resources.
12 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 CApitAlisinG On the OppOrtunity A multi-cyclical play A COunterintuitive CyCliCAl pOsitiOn tAKinG OppOrtunities in the next phAse We will always be a cyclical business.
Our strategy Our strategic focus will continue to be on organic growth centres on reducing our risk and allowing us to capitalise to take advantage of the continuing financial constraints on opportunities at all stages of the cycle.
As Figure 6: of our competitors.
We have found that organic growth is Performance through the cycle shows, the US very profitable as demonstrated by the RoI performance construction market continues to be flat but Sunbelts we have seen since 2010.
Organic growth is what we do RoI excluding goodwill, at 25%, is the highest it has ever best and it is relatively risk free, especially in a market been, its EBITDA margin of 41% is at a record level, and that has the strong growth prospects of the US.
Over the its fleet is at its largest and youngest ever.
next couple of years we intend to add 100 stores to our US network to ensure we capitalise on market share gains, The chart demonstrates how we flex these individual increasing rental penetration and the markets return measures over the cycle to enable us to sustain to growth.
performance even when activity levels are reduced due to economic slowdown.
Our current position is a direct Figure 7: US construction growth forecasts shows result of our careful planning which has succeeded in the construction growth forecasts across the various delinking our performance from that of our principal subsectors of the US construction industry.
We have the size and quality of fleet to service in all these sectors and have considerable presence in demand growth now and the financial clout to invest non-residential and government infrastructure.
Clearly further as the market itself picks up.
there is a range of economic indicators we need to consider when assessing our expected future growth, Our EBITDA margin allows us to support further growth but most general indicators are beginning to be more and still delever over time.
We plan to grow aggressively positive.
There is still the possibility of a further shock but also, over the cycle, maintain our leverage below to the economy, but we believe that is receding fast in the 2 times EBITDA as we do not want to compound inherent US.
Therefore, we expect to see significant opportunities operational leverage with high financial leverage.
There for our business in the coming years.
is still a long way for us to go in market share gains and rental penetration.
We are already planning how we will We will continue to make acquisitions in specialty make the most of the next downturn.
We want to exploit companies to broaden our exposure to markets where, our first-mover advantage at the bottom of the next cycle in the long term, we think there is potential and where and we will have the resources available to do that.
it will make us marginally less cyclical.
These will likely That is when we expect other companies to again be continue to take the form of small bolt-on acquisitions suffering financial constraints and be forced to contract such as Empire, JMR and Topp rather than large their business.
Our criterion for choosing such acquisitions is that they already demonstrate a successful model Rental penetration growth will tend to slow down in the through strong returns: we then look to scale these economic recovery period of the cycle, but we do not opportunities using our balance sheet and national expect it to go backwards.
This is because the flexibility footprint.
Typically, there is a high degree of product of rental has become well established, companies fleet overlap which accelerates the integration.
ownership infrastructure has been permanently reduced and technical and legislative changes make rental a far more attractive option.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13 MAxiMisinG perFOrMAnCe Excelling day-to-day peOple And serviCe diFFerentiAtiOn We pride ourselves on providing optimal customer Having differentiation in both our service and fleet service from high-quality and exceedingly capable allows us to offer the widest possible range of equipment staff.
Every effort is made to hire and retain the highestto a broad customer base.
Our emphasis on increasing quality people in both the US and the UK and then train our specialty services alongside organic growth, means and reward them so they stay with us.
Despite the high that also we have a degree of differentiation from the staff turnover of the rental industry as a whole, Ashtead mainly construction-led majority of our business.
This enjoys very high levels of staff retention as a result of our provides a buffer against the highly cyclical nature of the policies and culture, with the result that staff turnover construction industry.
Our specialty services differentiate is at a historically low level for the business.
This stability us from our competition.
is a key driver of our ability to deliver high levels of service.
We make use of industry-leading applications of Figure 8 shows how, excluding the impact of growth technology to differentiate further our service and through acquisition, our headcount has increased slightly capitalise on growth opportunities in the marketplace.
in the US and remained largely unchanged in the UK over A-Plant recently launched a fully interactive Trade Price the last three years.
Retention and length of tenure rates Catalogue which provides product videos, safety advice are especially strong amongst our more senior staff.
and full product information, all available for easy viewing Consistently high levels of service and a resolute focus on smart phones and tablet devices on site or off.
In on the customer, whether they be big or small, lead addition, A-Trak, our advanced in-house GPRS based to long-term relationships in both the UK and the US.
tracking system fitted to all our equipment offers The strength of our relationship with Amey in the UK, unparalleled protection against the theft of plant with for example, means that A-Plant will be supplying recovery rates of over 90%.
It also provides a complete equipment under their new 25-year 2bn highways fleet management tool providing data on CO 2 emissions, maintenance contract with Sheffield City Council.
We utilisation rates, the movement of equipment on hire have invested 1m in new equipment to help service this and fuel levels.
Sunbelts custom CRM application, contract.
Similarly, Sunbelt has invested $5m in new fleet Accelerate, allows on-the-job analysis and fulfilment to service Duke Energy, the largest US power company, of customers needs across multiple product lines and who we work with across seven states in the eastern US.
locations, as well as real time KPI tracking.
We also apply technology to provide more sustainable rental solutions.
Our national networks in both markets ensure that We recently launched Power Cube, a revolutionary customers can source the equipment they need close product which enables customers to cut their carbon to where they need it.
Our coverage also enables us to footprint, fuel consumption, noise levels and emissions, service large national customers nationwide.
We have whilst delivering huge cost savings.
See page 31 for more a highly devolved structure through to store level which information on this.
we find promotes accountability as well as motivating staff.
We maintain quality of service through a culture of deploying our KPIs from the ground level up, to ensure that what gets measured gets done.
For example, fleet on rent and RoI are as important at store level as they are for the Group.
14 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 FIG 8: HEADCOUNT SUNBELT A-PLANT 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 11 12 13 EXCLUDES ACQUISITIONS trAFFiC COntrOl And MAnAGeMent Our specialty traffic control and management division, A-Plant Lux, played a key role in keeping the UK moving during the Olympic and Paralympic Games last summer.
We supplied over 20,000 cones, more than 3,500 road signs and over 10 kilometres of barriers.
Our equipment was in place for the Olympic Torch Relay and at venues including the Olympic Park, Wembley Stadium, Brands Hatch and Manchesters Old Trafford.
We provided lighting towers across East London, accommodation at St James Park in Newcastle and boom gates for the triathlon in Hyde Park.
ryAn neWtOn Ryan Newton is employed by Sunbelt as a video producer but he sometimes gets pulled into the responder crew when needed.
A routine three-day video job in New Jersey turned into a two-month stint sourcing and servicing equipment required in the clean-up of Super Storm Sandy.
Ryan turned a hotel room into a parts warehouse to ensure kit was serviced fully and went immediately to where it was needed.
He was one of hundreds of dedicated Sunbelt employees working to ensure zero downtime for the equipment needed in the recovery effort.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15
