Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 22 business review instruments The first full year contribution from Soldo has provided a solid platform for growth for the Instruments division.
AlAn PAine MD RotoRk instRuMents Revenue m The Instruments division was formed in late project successes in the tyre sector being one 2011 and is Rotorks vehicle to expand our of the highlights.
Our European sales were addressable market beyond actuators into supported by customers there winning 51.8% the wider flow control market.
The division export projects around the world.
Australia now comprises two companies both of and Brazil are less well developed markets for 2013 24.9 which make products that measure or Fairchild, with Brazil affected by a slower than control flow and pressure.
Rotork Fairchild, expected pulp and paper industry.
Both will 2012 16.4 which is based in Winston-Salem USA, be focus markets for the coming year.
2011 1.4 manufactures precision pneumatic and electro-pneumatic control products whilst The Instruments division has the most 2010 Soldo, based in Desenzano Italy is a diversified end market exposure of all Adjusted Operating profit m 2009 switchbox manufacturer.
These products can Rotorks divisions.
34% of sales are now into be used in conjunction with actuators but oil & gas and this has increased with the are also used in other end markets, further addition of Soldo which has a greater oil & 53.5% broadening our end market exposure as we gas focus than the Fairchild products.
Water implement our strategy of organic as well as and power accounted for 5% between them 2013 7.8 acquisition-led growth.
with industrial and mining a further 18%.
The balance fell into our Other category 2012 5.1 With a first full year contribution from Soldo, reflecting the fact that pneumatic control is 2011 0.4 revenue grew 51.8% to 24.9m, or 16.6% used in a wide range of industries.
Investment in product 2010 development and the sales infrastructure During the year we moved a number of 2009 continued through the year and the increase offices to take advantage of improved in revenue supported a 30 basis point rise in facilities, foster closer working relationships adjusted operating profit margin to 31.4%.
with other divisions and control costs.
We The 7.8m adjusted operating profit is moved the Soldo USA office from Cincinnati 53.5% higher than 2012 or 20.0% higher on to Winston-Salem, where it has been a an organic constant currency basis.
successfully integrated into the Fairchild operation.
In Brazil we moved Fairchild into Rotork Fairchild experienced good growth in the Rotork Sao Paulo facility and in China the North America, Europe and Japan.
Our Fairchild office in Chengdu moved to a new strong performance in North America was building where the Rotork sales team in due to the reorganisation and strengthening Chengdu has now joined them.
In 2014 we of the sales team, an improved trading have already merged the Soldo Asia business environment and growth in the medical into Rotork Singapore and will continue to industry sales supported by a new product look for similar opportunities in other parts of introduction.
North Asia performed well with the world.
Strategic Report 01-41 23 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 business review instruments caSe Study Rotork Instruments operates an asset-light Rotork Fairchild pressure regulators were selected for high accuracy research applications business model and has outsourced the at the TRI Australasia facility near to Queenslands Gold Coast.
TRI Australasia offers majority of component manufacture.
highly specialised services including a range of geo-synthetic testing and quality Rotorks international supply chain provides assurance programmes for a multitude of industries.
opportunities to support our ongoing material cost management programme.
In The Fairchild Model 10 regulators have been installed on two processes where 2013 there were a number of products compressed air is used to check for the content of water retention within clay.
Both launched for Rotork Fairchild whereas the processes demand highly accurate set point pressure supplies in order for the tests to focus for Soldo was on integration.
products are currently under development in both companies and we will see several of these launched during 2014. opportunitieS There are further opportunities with both product lines to grow sales organically using Product development the Rotork global sales offices.
Whilst the route to market is typically not the same as New markets the other divisions, being more distribution Acquisitions sales than project sales, the sales offices provide a base from which to enter a new territory.
Growth will also be through acquisitions as we look to build the product portfolio with other devices used in flow control which share the same technologies, routes to market, customers or end markets.
References to adjusted profit throughout this document are defined as the IFRS profit, whether operating profit or profit before tax, with 12.1m 2012: 7.4m of amortisation of acquired intangibles added back.
