Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 18 business review Fluid Systems Rotork Fluid Systems RFS had another strong year with double-digit growth in order intake and revenue.
We also saw adjusted operating margin increase by 130 basis points to 16.6% in the year, reflecting the benefit of operational gearing and our focus on cost management.
Alex BusBy MD RotoRk FluiD systeMs Revenue m RFS manufactures a wide range of Oil & gas remained the largest end-market pneumatic, hydraulic and electro-hydraulic for RFS with revenue from this segment actuators mainly for the oil & gas market.
This represented 77% of the 16.2% & gas covers a wide range of applications divisions revenue in the year but was spread and RFS benefited from strong demand from across many aspects of the oil & gas market, 2013 187.0 liquified natural gas LNG, gas and liquids ranging from wellhead skids in Australia in pipelines, gas storage and offshore projects upstream, to safety systems in tank storage 2012 160.9 during the year.
Our diverse product portfolio applications in downstream.
We also saw 2011 132.6 and engineering capability enables us to good increases in our sales destined for the participate in the upstream, midstream and water, industrial and mining markets, albeit 2010 106.8 downstream markets.
slower than the rate of growth in oil & gas.
2009 99.7 Revenue grew 16.2% to 187.0m, a new In August 2013 we acquired the GTA Group, record, with the second half accounting for comprising G. T. Attuatori Italia S. r. l. based in Adjusted Operating profit m 52% of annual revenue.
This weighting was Italy, together with G. T. Attuatori Europe in line with the Group as a whole and less GmbH and Max Process GmbH, both of 25.9 % pronounced than the 56% second half which are in Germany.
This acquisition weighting in the division last year.
Removing extends our product portfolio with a small the small contribution from the GTA rack and pinion actuator which is often sold 2013 31.0 acquisition and the positive currency impact, in petrochemical and industrial applications.
Order intake grew at a Since the acquisition we have focused our slower rate than revenue, up 12.2%, but still attention on improving GTAs supply chain 2011 17.1 exceeded revenue which led to a 14.3% and sales channels and we anticipate that we 2010 14.9 increase in order book during the year to will see the benefit of this in 2014 and 76.0m.
Adjusted operating profit of beyond.
2009 15.3 31.0m was 25.9% higher than the prior year and set a record operating margin of We have continued to integrate K-Tork, 16.6%, a 130 basis point improvement on based in Dallas USA into our business and 2012.
Both currency and acquisitions were a are focused on developing its products to headwind, so on an organic constant cover a wider range of sizes and options.
This currency basis adjusted operating profit is in conjunction with a review of component margins were 16.9%.
The positive impact of sourcing to take advantage of our operational gearing and improvements to international supply chain.
K-Torks products material costs were the main contributors to are often used in power, water and the the further improvement in margins.
process control market and will further diversify RFSs end-market exposure.
Strategic Report 01-41 19 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 business review Fluid Systems caSe Study Geographically, we saw strong performances Rotork was selected for routine and safety-related valve control duties on Turkeys from around the world, with the biggest pipeline network.
The pipelines carry products including natural gas from Asian improvements in Italy, Russia, Spain, countries and traverse Turkey en-route for export to other final destinations or as a Singapore and Australia.
Australia benefited source of energy for domestic consumption.
in particular from coal seam gas investment.
Mexico continues to be an important market Compressor stations along the route are designed to preserve the pressure level in the following the large pipeline projects we won networks and transfer the gas for local area consumption.
These are among the a few years ago and we have grown our pipeline locations where Rotork valve actuation technologies are widely utilised.
In 2011 we acquired full ownership of the Mexican business and in 2013 we opened a new Centre of Excellence CoE in Mexico to meet opportunitieS the increasing demands of our local customers.
The CoEs provide valve automation facilities for factory fitting, New product launches testing, panel build, actuator overhaul capabilities and other local support.
Expanding Centres of Excellence New markets To ensure that we continue to provide support to our customers locally we made further investment in our facilities, with several office moves and expansions during the year.
The Middle East workshop was opened in April and a new Malaysian facility opened in August.
We also expanded our facilities in Brazil and Mexico.
Increasingly the market is requiring safety systems as standard in hazardous applications and we have made considerable investment in R&D in this area of the business.
We have continued to develop our existing product portfolio and have four products planned to launch in 2014, including a new product from Rotork Hiller, our US-based company focused on the nuclear power industry.
References to adjusted profit throughout this document are defined as the IFRS profit, whether operating profit or profit before tax, with 12.1m 2012: 7.4m of amortisation of acquired intangibles added back.
