Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 20 business review Gears For the first time sales to third party customers accounted for over 80% of revenue, reflecting the success of our strategy of expanding our international sales presence and reducing reliance on intragroup sales.
DaviD LittLejohns MD RotoRk GeaRs Revenue m The Gears division manufactures manual and However, without the positive impacts of motorised gearboxes and accessories.
There Renfro and currency, revenue growth was are two sales channels for gearboxes and 2.2%.
Adjusted operating profit increased 6.0 % accessories: sales made to a Rotork division by 7.3% to 13.0m and the margin improved or to a third party valvemaker.
A gearbox is 20 basis points to 23.1%.
Whilst product mix 2013 56.0 effectively a component of the valve and, was positive in the Italian factory it was with the majority of valves still being negative in China but, by careful 2012 52.9 manually operated, most require a gearbox management of the cost base, net margins 2011 46.6 to provide the necessary mechanical improved slightly.
Currency and acquisitions advantage to operate the valve.
Each were both slightly dilutive to adjusted 2010 39.2 valvemaker therefore requires a supply of operating margins, so with organic constant 2009 36.8 gearboxes and whilst some make their own, currency profit growth of 4.9%, the margin our sales proposition is attractive.
We provide was 60 basis points higher at 23.5%.
high quality, reliable gearboxes which we are Adjusted Operating profit m able to support throughout the world.
Our Rotork Valvekits is our valve adaption scale and international supply chain allows us business based in the UK.
As part of our 7.3% to offer the valvemaker an outsourced strategy to expand this product offering solution at a competitive price.
internationally, in August we acquired Renfro Associates Inc. a valve adaption and 2013 13.0 Positive performances were seen in the year mounting business based in Broken Arrow 2012 12.1 from our businesses in Italy, The Netherlands USA.
This long established business has an and Spain.
The market in India also improved excellent reputation for delivering high 2011 10.3 as we strengthened our local manufacturing quality product and service to its customers 2010 9.2 capabilities in the year.
The establishment of and provides us with the opportunity to our Indian Gears manufacturing plant has replicate our successful UK business model 2009 8.1 strengthened our international component across the USA.
During 2013 we expanded our manufacturing Order intake ended the year ahead of 2012, facilities in Shanghai and in Houston.
The extra up 5.1% in total, or 1.5% on an organic capacity in both locations will enable us to constant currency basis.
Revenue increased service the local markets more efficiently.
by 6.0% to 56.0m resulting in the order 2014 will see the completion of the new Leeds book reducing by 0.9% during the year.
facility and the businesses there relocate into a modern manufacturing plant.
Strategic Report 01-41 21 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 business review Gears caSe Study Sales into the various oil & gas markets Rotork flow control equipment has been installed throughout a major water industry remained constant at 52% of Gears revenue AMP5 environmental improvement project at a sewage treatment works serving this year but within this we saw growth in Somersets largest tourist resort on the south west coast of the UK.
Wessex Water has sales of subsea gearboxes.
These heavily invested 26m at the site to achieve improved bathing water quality for the resort of engineered gearboxes are manufactured in Weston-super-Mare.
Italy close to the valvemakers.
Like other divisions, we saw a reduction in sales into Rotorks scope of supply for flow control in the project encompasses IQ multi-turn and power but this was offset by growth in the IQT quarter-turn intelligent electric actuators and IB manual gearboxes for motorised and water market.
hand operated valves and penstocks throughout the new works.
In 2012 we created a new product introduction team dedicated to developing opportunitieS new products.
During 2013 we brought to market a range of new products including two manual gearboxes and a motorised Valve adaption gearbox and we have continued to offer project specific subsea product solutions.
A New markets new multi-turn gearbox has been specifically designed to comply with GOST, a standard for valves in the oil, gas, power generation and utility industries throughout Russia and the neighbouring countries.
We are continuing to invest in Research & Development in terms of recruiting additional engineers and in our testing capability to improve further our ability to bring new products to market.
The new FB fire protection series of gearboxes also enables us to access a market that we have yet to address.
References to adjusted profit throughout this document are defined as the IFRS profit, whether operating profit or profit before tax, with 12.1m 2012: 7.4m of amortisation of acquired intangibles added back.
