Strategic Report | Business Review Life-cycle of a medicine AstraZeneca is one of only a handful of pure-play biopharmaceutical companies to span the entire value chain of a medicine from research, earlyand late-stage development to manufacturing and distribution, and the global commercialisation of primary care, specialty care-led and specialty care medicines that transform lives.
Research and development phases 10-15 years 2 3 4 5 6 1 7 Pre-clinical studies Phase I Phase II Phase III Regulatory Launch new Post-launch research Find potential Patent expiry Undertake studies in the studies studies studies submission medicine and development medicine and generic laboratory and in animals to Studies designed to Studies designed to Studies, typically in Raise awareness of patient Studies to further understand the Identify unmet medical need and pricing entry understand if the potential understand how the evaluate magnitude of large groups of patients, benefit and appropriate use, benefit risk profile of the medicine that represents a potential Seek approval from regulatory medicine should be safe to Typically, when patents potential medicine is effect and tolerability of designed to confirm market and sell medicine in larger and or additional patient market opportunity.
Explore introduce into humans and authorities to manufacture, protecting the medicine absorbed in the body, the medicine, typically the efficacy and gather populations and conduct pioneering science market and sell the medicine Clinicians begin to prescribe in what quantities expire, generic versions distributed around it using smallor mediumadditional information on the biology of the disease medicine and patients begin Life-cycle management activities of the medicine enter Submit package of clinical data Determine likely efficacy, side and excreted.
Also sized groups of patients, on safety of the medicine to identify a potential medicine to benefit to broaden understanding of a the market effect profile and maximum identify side effects and and to determine the and evaluate the overall which demonstrates the safety to address those needs medicines full potential and work profile and efficacy of a medicine Continuously monitor, record tolerable dose estimate for determine what doses optimal dose s. Establish benefit risk profile in the and undertake laboratory to consider additional diseases or humans can be tolerated.
These Proof of Concept specific disease and to regulatory authorities and analyse reported side research to find a medicine aspects of disease which might be effects.
Review need to update studies typically take patient segments in that should be potent, selective, Regulatory authorities are Based on the Phase II Regulatory authorities decide treated by the medicine or better place in small groups which the medicine the side effect warnings to and absorbed into and well whether to grant marketing informed of the proposed trials results, design a Phase III ways of administering the medicine.
ensure that patients wellbeing of healthy human will be used tolerated by the body that are to be conducted within programme to deliver authorisation based on the Submit data packages with requests volunteers or, in certain is maintained medicines safety profile, the framework of regulations data required for Create appropriate for line extensions to regulatory Begin the process of seeking cases, patients regulatory approval branding for the new effectiveness and quality Assess real-world effectiveness, authorities for review and approval patent protection for the and opportunities to support As early as Phase I, and pricing and or medicine in preparation potential medicine If there are gaps in begin to design a reimbursement for launch patients and prescribers, to understanding about the Collaborate with academia, achieve maximum benefit from manufacturing throughout the world medicine at the time of marketing public research laboratories, route to ensure the the medicine authorisation, regulatory At an early stage, biotech companies and manufacturing process incorporate payer authorities may request further pharmaceutical peers to is robust and cost data collection, increasingly in considerations to help access the best external efficient ensure the economic and real-world clinical settings science and medical opinion therapeutic value of a medicine is understood We focus on distinctive science in three We believe that few other pharmaceutical We have created two autonomous biotech core therapy areas: Cardiovascular and companies, if any, can match the units, MedImmune and IMED, to drive Metabolic disease CVMD : Oncology: combination of capabilities that we science and innovation in research and andRespiratory, Inflammation and have in small molecules, biologics, early clinical development Autoimmunity RIA immunotherapies and protein engineering 34 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information More information about our activities across Note: This is a high level overview of a medicines life-cycle and the life-cycle of a medicine is contained in is illustrative only.
It is neither intended to, nor does it, represent this Business Review: the life-cycle of any particular medicine or of every medicine discovered and or developed by AstraZeneca, or the probability Research and Development Page 36 of success or approval of any AstraZeneca medicine.
Sales and Marketing Page 40 Page 43 Manufacturing and Supply Launch phase 20 years 5-10 years 2 3 4 5 6 1 7 Pre-clinical studies Phase I Phase II Phase III Regulatory Launch new Post-launch research Find potential Patent expiry Undertake studies in the studies studies studies submission medicine and development medicine and generic laboratory and in animals to Studies designed to Studies designed to Studies, typically in Raise awareness of patient Studies to further understand the Identify unmet medical need and pricing entry understand if the potential understand how the evaluate magnitude of large groups of patients, benefit and appropriate use, benefit risk profile of the medicine that represents a potential Seek approval from regulatory medicine should be safe to Typically, when patents potential medicine is effect and tolerability of designed to confirm market and sell medicine in larger and or additional patient market opportunity.
ensure that patients wellbeing of healthy human will be used tolerated by the body that are to be conducted within programme to deliver authorisation based on the Submit data packages with requests volunteers or, in certain is maintained medicines safety profile, the framework of regulations data required for Create appropriate for line extensions to regulatory Begin the process of seeking cases, patients regulatory approval branding for the new effectiveness and quality Assess real-world effectiveness, authorities for review and approval patent protection for the and opportunities to support As early as Phase I, and pricing and or medicine in preparation potential medicine If there are gaps in begin to design a reimbursement for launch patients and prescribers, to understanding about the Collaborate with academia, achieve maximum benefit from manufacturing throughout the world medicine at the time of marketing public research laboratories, route to ensure the the medicine authorisation, regulatory At an early stage, biotech companies and manufacturing process incorporate payer authorities may request further pharmaceutical peers to is robust and cost data collection, increasingly in considerations to help access the best external efficient ensure the economic and real-world clinical settings science and medical opinion therapeutic value of a medicine is understood A single late-stage development We adopt a strategy of investing in We are a truly global company, with organisation GMD is responsible the bestscience, whether it originates commercial activities in more than for all small and large molecule projects internallyor externally.
Products are 100countries delivered by the two early clinical added to our pipeline at any stage development organisations of development through a mixture of collaboration, in-licensing and acquisition AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 35 Strategic Report | Business Review Research and Development We are transforming our organisation to drive science and innovation, changing our culture and improving productivity.
investment in key capabilities, such as Working collaboratively Our strategic approach payer partnering, PHC, predictive science To enable us to build the strongest portfolio and clinical trial design.
possible, we are agnostic as to the source means we are well of scientific innovation, with a significant positioned to take advantage Transforming the way we work includes proportion of our pipeline derived from plans to co-locate teams across small of our integrated expertise in external sources.
We have significantly molecules and biologics at our strategic small molecules, biologics, enhanced our innovation capability by R&D hubs in Gaithersburg, Maryland, US: establishing numerous alliances and immunotherapies and Cambridge, UK: and Mlndal, Sweden to licensing opportunities, and completed ensure seamless delivery of the portfolio proteinengineering.
from early to late development and into Bahija Jallal life-cycle management.
For more information, In Oncology, we forged new partnerships EVP, MedImmune see the Strategic R&D centres section across our small molecule and biologics on page 5.
We have also reshaped our pipeline.
In September 2013, we signed a organisation, reducing management worldwide licensing agreement with Merck Achieve Scientific Leadership layers and process complexity to improve for MK-1775, their oral small molecule As outlined in the Our strategic priorities decision making and empower employees.
MK-1775 is section from page 16, achieving scientific This means our R&D organisation is currently being evaluated in Phase IIb leadership is a critical component of our leaner and more efficient.
As outlined clinical studies in combination with path to success.
in the Managing change section on standard-of-care therapies for treating During 2013, we: page 69, we continue to support patients with certain types of ovarian employees through these changes.
In October 2013, we completed focused on distinctive science in three theacquisition of Amplimmune, a biologics core therapy areas Research and early clinical company that develops novel therapeutics prioritised our portfolio and accelerated development in cancer immunology, and Spirogen, a key programmes Our two biotech units drive innovation in biotechnology company specialising in achieved our 2016 target volume for our discovery research and early development.
antibody-drug conjugate technology for Phase III pipeline three years ahead of Innovative Medicines and Early Development usein oncology.
schedule and improved the quality of IMED is our small molecule organisation, our Phase II pipeline.
while MedImmune focuses on biologics.
Choosing the right therapeutic technology Both units comprise specialist disease is vital, especially since many targets have Achieving scientific leadership also requires area-led Innovative Medicines sections proved intractable to traditional small us to change our culture and transform and are accountable for delivery ofpipeline molecule and protein approaches.
We need to access the projects up to Proof of Concept stage, March2013, we entered into an exclusive best science, whether inside oroutside when they move to our Global Medicines agreement with Moderna Therapeutics AstraZeneca.
We have therefore developed Development GMD unit for late-stage todiscover, develop and commercialise a biotech-style operating model, with two development, as described opposite.
pioneering messenger RNA Therapeutics autonomous research and early clinical for the treatment of serious cardiovascular, development science units and a late-stage Our way of working gives us a distinctive metabolic and renal diseases, and cancer.
Weare innovation platform comprising small Messenger RNA Therapeutics are an collaborating across earlyand late-stage molecules, biologics, therapeutic entirely new treatment approach that development to tap into the best scientific combinations and PHC approaches.
enables the body to produce therapeutic research and develop medicines that Scientific collaborations, alliances and protein in vivo, opening up new treatment transform lives.
Our focus on increasing business development play a critical part options for a wide range of diseases that productivity and improving the quality of our inour innovation strategy.
cannot be addressed using existing pipeline is starting to benefit from our past technologies.
See the case study on page46 for more information.
36 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information In 2013, we also progressed collaborations how an individual patient is likely to respond Late-stage development with several key biotech and research to a particular medicine before prescribing Our late-stage development organisation, institutions to develop and access it for them.
In 2013, we partnered with a GMD, takes projects from the point when it innovative technology.
For example, we number of diagnostic companies to is first decided to progress them through to extended our collaboration with X-Chem co-develop diagnostics at the point of entry Phase III development.
GMD designs and Inc. and plan to use their high-diversity into clinical trials: Roche Molecular Systems delivers drug programmes to support the library and highly efficient screening for selumetinib, AZD5363 and AZD9291: approval, launch and reimbursement of our platform to improve the rate and quality of Myriad Genetics for olaparib: and Abbott late-stage projects.
It also pursues life-cycle small molecule discovery.
We also entered into a master management opportunities for products on with the Wyss Institute for Biologically collaboration agreement with Qiagen that the market, finding new indications for Inspired Engineering at Harvard University includes continued support for Iressa.
medicines so that more patients can will leverage the Institutes technologies benefit.
It is responsible for both the small One promising area for PHC is asthma, to better predict the safety of drugs molecule and biologics projects delivered a heterogeneous group of conditions with in humans.
by our two research and early clinical closely related clinical features but diverse development units, and works in Innovative approaches underlying causes and molecular partnership with other companies and In Oncology, our distinctive innovation phenotypes.
By using PHC strategies early organisations to co-develop new medicines platform means we can combine small in the drug development process, we can which are in-licensed or part of a molecules with biologics, known as target these distinct asthma phenotypes partnership agreement.
immune-mediated cancer therapies to optimise treatments.
One example of this IMT-Cs, a promising therapeutic approach is benralizumab, where we are targeting Prioritised pipeline which harnesses the patients own immune patients in our Phase III programme with During 2013, we prioritised and, in several system to fight cancer.
We believe that by a distinct asthma phenotype.
Benralizumab cases, accelerated late-stage development developing novel combinations of IMT-Cs, is the first in a series of novel PHC-driven of projects in those disease areas where with each other and with small molecules, biologic therapies in our portfolio that may we believe there is the greatest potential we can deliver significant improvements represent a critical advance in the to meet patient need.
At the end of 2013, in overall survival.
See the case study on development of personalised asthma there were 11 NME projects in late-stage page 32 for more information.
development 2012: six, either in Phase III or under regulatory review, including two In January 2014, AstraZeneca announced from the acquisition of Pearl Therapeutics a research collaboration with Immunocore We are creating a more and Omthera.
Further information about under which both companies will research our development pipeline is given in porous research environment and develop Immunocores Immune the Development pipeline section from that will help us Achieve Mobilising Monoclonal T-Cell Receptor page 194.
Scientific Leadership by We have increased development A growing appreciation and a deeper fostering collaboration collaborations with pharmaceutical partners understanding of disease diversity is between scientists both and work closely with others including uncovering new therapeutic targets.
Academic Research Organisations AROs, within and outside In Oncology, we work with major Clinical Research Organisations CROs and AstraZeneca.
organisations, such as the National Cancer technology providers to deliver clinical trial Institute in the US, Cancer Research UK Menelas Pangalos programmes in the most efficient way, while and the NN Petrov Institute in Russia, to EVP, IMED identifying rigorous and innovative means better understand disease and resistance to expand understanding of the benefits mechanisms.
In 2013, we established the and risks of our products throughout their Open innovation Integrated Cardio Metabolic Centre with life-cycle, as described below.
The creation of a porous research the Karolinska Institutet in Sweden to environment, where scientists share ideas identify and validate novel targets within Quality and efficiency more freely, collaborate on projects and cardio-metabolic diseases.
We also We continue to reshape our organisation drive scientific innovation, is key to our drive opened the previously announced and implement new operating models and to Achieve Scientific Leadership.
In October Manchester Collaborative Centre for processes to improve our efficiency and 2013, building on our open innovation Inflammation Research, a unique quality in delivering late-stage clinical trials.
agreements with the Medical Research pre-competitive partnership between We are upgrading our IT platforms and Council in the UK, and the US National The University of Manchester, GSK and systems by, for example, introducing a Institutes of Healths new National Center AstraZeneca, designed to establish a new regulatory information management for Advancing Translational Sciences, we world-leading translational centre for system, using tools to provide real-time announced an agreement with the National inflammatory diseases.
information about the progress of patients Research Program for Biopharmaceuticals enrolled in studies and common platforms Our personalised healthcare strategy of Taiwan to explore new therapeutic uses for sharing study information globally.
A greater understanding of disease for 20 of our small molecule and biologic We are standardising processes, for mechanisms leads to more sophisticated compounds.
We also progressed our example, by adopting common data diagnostic protocols for tailoring both novel previously announced Open Innovation standards for our clinical trials and through and existing treatments to the needs of partnership with the Science for Life simpler designs for clinical trial protocols individual patients.
By the end of 2013, this Laboratory, based in Sweden, supporting we are reducing the number of amendments.
PHC strategy was applied to 64% of our 10 joint collaborative research projects We have adopted simpler ways of working, pipeline.
PHC aims to match medicines covering research in metabolic, for example by reducing management only to those patients who will benefit from cardiovascular, inflammatory, cancer and layers and creating broader roles.
Advances in science mean we can regenerative medicine, and hosted by the cutting complexity and making increasingly design and use tests to tell us Karolinska Institutet and Uppsala University.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 37 Strategic Report | Business Review | Research and Development Patients in global AstraZeneca studies by geographical region in 2013 % 11 2 3 19 Europe Japan 25 39 2 US Canada South Africa 11 4 12 14 Asia Pacic Latin America 27 28 2 1 Central Eastern Europe Other Small molecule Biologics Investment in capabilities We have grown our payer and real-world We continue to invest in core development evidence capabilities and are providing the Our passion is to ensure the capabilities to exploit science, drive data, analysis and insights to demonstrate swift and ethical development, performance, bring quality to our decision the value of our medicines to patients and approval, reimbursement making and add value.
This includes show how they help to reduce healthcare and launch of medicines that capabilities such as therapy area and costs.
These studies use observational disease area expertise, statistical data, such as electronic medical records transform peoples lives.
modelling, translational patient safety, and patient surveys, to illustrate the impact Briggs Morrison payer and real-world evidence, and of a medicine in the real-world setting.
EVP, GMD global medical affairs.
Forexample, they can show how a medicine can improve outcomes for We have also established leading patients compared to other treatment Bioethics capability and experience in delivering options, or reduce demand on hospital We want to be recognised for the high large outcomes trials, which are extensive, stays or specialist services.
quality of our science and the impact multi-country, multi-site studies involving wemake on serious diseases, and to be many thousands of patients.
Such trials Delivery through collaboration trusted for the way we work.
Our standards often involve us collaborating with AROs We want to make a difference in how we of bioethics are global and apply to all and CROs to find the right patients in develop drugs, not just for ourselves, but AstraZeneca research activity, in all a timely way.
In 2013, we delivered the tobenefit the industry.
We do this through locations, whether conducted by us SAVOR study to provide information on collaboration and partnership.
or onour behalf by third parties.
cardiovascular CV safety for Onglyza, a In 2013, we were active partners in the treatment for Type 2 diabetes.
This large Patient safety TransCelerate programme, a collaboration CVoutcomes trial was completed and The safety of the patients who take our of leading biopharmaceutical companies delivered two years ahead of schedule.
medicines is of fundamental importance that have joined forces to solve common tous.
Our objective is to enhance We have strengthened our collaborations R&D challenges, reduce time and cost, pharmacovigilance awareness including with AROs with, for example, ongoing andimprove quality.
The year also saw the use of collaborative programmes to partnerships with the TIMI Study Group theintroduction of a new pharmaceutical share and use our knowledge and best onthe Brilinta PEGASUS study, and the network to rapidly source high-quality practice in order to improve reporting and Duke Clinical Research Institute and CPC comparator drugs for clinical trials to speed patient safety in developing countries.
Clinical Research, an academic research up drug development, reduce drug waste organisation affiliate of the University of and costs, and to continue to ensure the All drugs have potential side effects and Colorado on the Brilinta EUCLID study.
safety of patients in trials and meet all weaim to minimise the risks and maximise regulatory requirements.
In addition, there the benefits of each of our medicines.
We have invested in intelligent have been initiatives to introduce common Wecontinually monitor the use of all our pharmaceuticals which explore how cross-industry processes associated with medicines to ensure that we become aware wecan use science and technology, such clinical trial site qualification and training.
of any side effects not identified during the as mobile phones and other monitoring development process.
This is known as devices to provide services beyond a We continued to work with the European pharmacovigilance and is core to our medicine: for example, to provide patients Innovative Medicines Initiative, which responsibility to patients.
We have with targeted information about their launched two new projects in February comprehensive and rigorous systems in treatment and reminders about their 2013 under the New Drugs 4 Bad Bugs place for detecting and rapidly evaluating medication: and physicians and other programme.
This advances research into such effects, including mechanisms for carers with alerts to prevent problems apotential new treatment for Gramhighlighting those that require immediate arising and to avoid the need for hospital negative bacteria, one of the toughest ordoctor visits.
Pilot studies are under typesof drug-resistant bacteria to treat, wayto test new technology approaches.
and tackles the economic hurdles of bringing new antibiotics to market.
38 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information attention.
We also work to ensure that accurate, well-informed and up-to-date Clinical trial transparency information concerning the safety profile of AstraZeneca has a long-standing commitment to making information about our drugs is provided to regulators, doctors, our clinical research publicly available, to enhance the scientific understanding other healthcare professionals and, where of how our medicines work.
We have a commitment to be transparent, to benefit appropriate, patients.
the medical interest of patients and investigational research participants, and the disclosure requirements set out in our Bioethics Policy exceed the current legal The pharmacovigilance awareness requirements.
By 31 December 2013, we had 2,241 registered investigational clinical programme that was developed in 2012 studies and, in line with our policy or legal requirements, had posted the results has now been made available to marketing and or clinical study reports and synopses relating to more than half of these companies.
There are also initiatives under on a range of public websites, including our own dedicated clinical trials website, way in a number of countries where we are www.
working closely with local health authorities to raise pharmacovigilance awareness.
Since February 2013, we have voluntarily disclosed the research protocol for our clinical trials on www.
com once a manuscript We have an experienced, in-house team relating to results of the relevant trial on an investigational or approved product is ofclinical patient safety professionals published in a peer-reviewed medical journal.
The posted protocol includes key dedicated to ensuring that we meet our sections necessary for evaluating the study, but proprietary information in the commitment to patient safety.
At a global protocol is edited before posting.
This policy also applies to observational studies level, every medicine in development published in peer-reviewed journals relevant to the efficacy or safety profile of an andon the market is allocated a Global AstraZeneca product.
Safety Physician and a team of patient safety scientists.
In each of our markets, Calls for open access to clinical data raise complex practical, legal and ethical wehavededicated safety managers issues around full disclosure of patient information.
Decision makers, as well as withresponsibility for patient safety at academia and industry, have a duty to consider all the implications that could alocal level.
These include ensuring scientific rigour, safeguarding patient privacy and protecting innovation and medical progress.
We are in active Our Chief Medical Officer has overall discussions with stakeholders including regulators, legislators, industry and accountability for the benefit risk profiles academia about proposals to routinely publish full clinical trial and patient data, ofour products in development and on in order to identify globally recognised, practicable solutions that deliver real themarket.
He provides medical oversight benefits to medical science and to our patients.
and ensures appropriate risk assessment processes exist to enable informed safety decisions to be made rapidly.
All our clinical studies are conceptually The number of animals we use will Clinical trials designed and finally interpreted in-house continue to vary because use depends We conduct clinical trials at multiple sites but a percentage are run for us by contract on a number of factors, including the inseveral different countries regions as research organisations.
In 2013, around amount of pre-clinical research we are shown in the chart above.
A broad 29% of patients in our small molecule doing, the complexity of the diseases under geographic span helps us ensure that studies and around 64% of those in our investigation and regulatory requirements.
those taking part in our studies reflect the biologics studies were monitored by We believe that, without our active diversity of patients around the world for suchorganisations on our behalf.
We commitment to the 3Rs, our animal use whom the new medicine is intended.
This contractually require these partners to would be much greater.
In 2013, we used approach also helps identify the types of workto our global standards and conduct 260,930 animals in-house 2012: 304,751. people for whom the treatment may be risk-based audits to monitor compliance.
In addition, 19,676 animals were used by most beneficial.
external contract research organisations Animal research onour behalf 2012: 14,284.
Our global governance process for We continue to promote and embed determining where we locate clinical trials scientific and technical best practice in The welfare of the animals we use is a top provides the framework for ensuring a animal research.
priority and our Bioethics Policy applies consistent approach worldwide.
Government authorities inspect This includes our commitment to minimise several factors into account, including the our internal animal research facilities.
the use of animals in our research without availability of experienced and independent External organisations that conduct animal compromising the quality of the research ethics committees and a robust regulatory studies on our behalf are required to data.
Wherever possible, we use regime, as well as sufficient numbers of comply with our global standards and non-animal methods, such as computer trained healthcare professionals and weundertake activities to ensure our modelling, that eliminate or reduce the need patients willing to participate.
During 2013, to use animals early in drug development.
we continued to implement our new Good Before a trial begins, we work to make We also work to refine our existing Statistical Practice global standard, across surethat those taking part understand the methods.
This replacement, reduction our internal animal research and some of nature and purpose of the research and andrefinement of animal studies is known our external partners.
that the proper procedure for gaining as the 3Rs.
To support our drive for Further information on AstraZenecas approach to informed consent is followed including continuous improvement, we work within responsible business can be found in the Responsible managing any special circumstances, such AstraZeneca and with the wider scientific Business section from page 220 and on our website, www.
as different levels of literacy.
Protecting community to share good practice and participants throughout the trial process 3Rsachievements.
isa priority and we have strict procedures to ensure they are not exposed to any unnecessary risks.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 39 Strategic Report | Business Review Sales and Marketing We have a strong global commercial capabilityand are building on this so that wecan better meet the needs of patients.
US increases in patient co-insurance or We combine a global reach AstraZeneca is the third largest co-payments, are the primary drivers of prescription-based pharmaceutical increased generics use.
In 2013, 86% of with strong local customer company in the US, with a 5.1% market prescriptions dispensed in the US were relationships.
We are share of US pharmaceuticals by generic.
While widespread adoption of a committed to working sales value.
broad national price-control scheme in the ethically, in accordance near future is unlikely, increased focus on Sales in the US in 2013 decreased by 9% pharmaceutical prices and their impact on withour values.
to $9,691 million 2012: $10,655 million: healthcare costs is likely to continue for the 2011: $13,426 million, as loss of exclusivity Ruud Dobber foreseeable future.
on Seroquel IR in March 2012 as well as EVP Europe & Interim EVP, GPPS the impact of generic competition was For more information on our performance only partially offset by performance across in North America, see the Geographical our growth platforms, up $493 million or Review from page 214.
Organisation and approach 29%, including Brilinta, Symbicort and If we are to change the lives of people Europe diabetes brands.
around the world, we need to ensure the AstraZenecas European business right medicines are available and that The Affordable Care Act, which came comprises Western and Eastern patients have access to them.
To that end, into force in March 2010, has had, and is European markets, which include France, our sales and marketing teams, which expected to continue to have, a significant Germany, Italy, the UK, Spain, and the comprised around 29,600 employees at impact on our US sales and the US Nordic-Baltic countries.
The total European the end of 2013, are active in more than healthcare industry as a whole.
In 2013, the pharmaceutical market was worth 100 countries.
In most countries, our overall reduction in our profit before tax for $205 billion in 2013.
We are the ninth sales are made through wholly-owned the year due to higher minimum Medicaid largest pharmaceutical company with local marketing companies.
Elsewhere, rebates on prescription drugs, discounts on a 3.1% market share of prescription we sell through distributors or local branded pharmaceutical sales to Medicare sales by value.
Part D beneficiaries, and an industry-wide In 2013, our sales in Europe were excise fee was $933 million 2012: $858 Our products are marketed largely to $6.7 billion, down by 9% from 2012. million.
See the Geographical Review, primary care and specialist doctors.
We The major external variables affecting from page 214 for more information.
aim to meet their needs by having highly sales were the macroeconomic accountable local leaders who understand Currently, there is no direct governmental environment, increased government their customers and focus on business control of prices for commercial interventions for example price and volume growth.
Our activities are grouped into prescription drug sales in the US.
However, interventions and increased trade across three Commercial Regions North some publicly funded programmes, such markets.
The austerity environment also America, Europe and International as well as Medicaid and TRICARE Department of continues in Europe and is accelerating as Japan, our second largest market.
In Veterans Affairs, have statutorily mandated in some markets.
We continue to launch addition, our GPPS organisation develops rebates and discounts that have the effect innovative medicines across Europe.
For global product strategies and drives of price controls for these programmes.
more information on our performance in commercial excellence, ensuring a strong Additionally, pressure on pricing, availability Europe, see the Geographical Review customer focus and commercial direction and use of prescription drugs for both from page 214. in managing our pipeline and marketed commercial and public payers continues Established Rest of World ROW products.
All our efforts are underpinned to increase.
This is driven by, among other th We are the 10 largest pharmaceutical by a commitment to conducting sales things, an increased focus on generic company in Japan in terms of sales, with an and marketing activity in accordance with alternatives.
Budgetary policies within annual growth rate double that of the overall our values and to driving commercial healthcare systems and providers, including market and above any of the other top 10 success responsibly.
the use of generics only formularies, and 40 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information businesses.
Growth is driven by our main located within their respective markets, Pricing our medicines primary care brands: Crestor, Symbicort are focused on meeting customers needs.
Our challenge is to deliver innovative and Nexium.
We share the promotion of The Regions platforms for growth include medicines that improve health for patients, these three brands with Japanese partners, our new medicines, notably Brilinta, as bring benefits to society and provide an who also provide distribution for Nexium well as those for diabetes, and our appropriate return on our investment.
We remain one of Japans established portfolio of medicines for Our global pricing policy provides the largest oncology businesses and, to cancer, respiratory, cardiovascular and framework to ensure appropriate patient maintain this important franchise, recently gastrointestinal diseases.
To provide access while optimising the profitability of entered into an agreement to co-promote information to physicians on this broad all our products in a sustainable way.
When Janssens abiraterone for castrationportfolio, we are selectively investing setting the price of a medicine, we take into resistant prostate cancer.
in sales capabilities where we see consideration its full value to patients, to opportunities from unmet patient need, those who pay for healthcare and to society In Canada, Provincial and Territory payers, and expanding our reach through in general.
We also pursue a flexible who represent up to 55% of the market, multi-channel marketing.
approach to the pricing of our medicines.
have developed a structure for panFor example, we support the concept Canadian product listings which could be We are also pursuing innovative of differential pricing, provided that the primary or only access method for new collaboration opportunities.
This includes appropriate safeguards ensure lower-priced products into the public healthcare system.
partnering with other biopharmaceutical products are not diverted from patients Private sector payers, representing the companies to access products that who need them to be sold and used in remaining 45%, are experimenting with complement our own portfolio.
tiered access programmes for large public example, the team in China works as part and private employer groups.
Access to of our global collaboration with FibroGen Delivering value for payers reimbursement for new medicines is to develop and commercialise roxadustat Our medicines play an important role in expected to remain reasonable, but pricing FG-4592, a first-in-class oral compound treating unmet medical need.
Health is a pressure will continue to increase.
in development for treating anaemia.
For fundamental value for patients and society more information on our performance in and improving health brings economic as AstraZenecas sales in Australia and New Emerging Markets, see the Geographical well as therapeutic benefits.
Effective Zealand declined by 18% in 2013, primarily Review from page 214. treatments can also help to lower due to the entry of generic rosuvastatin healthcare costs by reducing the need Crestor and generic candesartan for more expensive care, such as hospital Atacand into the Australian market.
For Our customers, and their stays or surgery, or through preventing more information on our performance in people from developing more serious or needs, are changing.
We are Established ROW, see the Geographical debilitating diseases that are costly to changing too ensuring we Review, from page 214. treat.
They also contribute to increased reach and engage with our Emerging Markets productivity by reducing or preventing the Emerging Markets, as defined in the customers in ways that work incidence of diseases that prevent people Glossary on page 232, comprise a range from working.
of countries with the unifying characteristic As outlined in the Pricing pressure section Paul Hudson of a dynamic, growing economy.
As outlined on page 15, there is continued downward EVP, North America in the Our marketplace section on page 13, pressure on drug pricing and, in the current demand drivers and strong economic difficult economic environment, payers fundamentals mean that these countries Driving commercial success expect us to define the value our medicines represent a major growth opportunity for Our Global Commercial Excellence create.
We are acutely aware of the the biopharmaceutical industry.
team delivers innovative commercial challenges facing those who pay for capabilities for the benefit of all our Emerging Markets are, however, not healthcare and are committed to delivering customers, via a range of specialist teams.
immune to the impact of the prolonged value, which will allow us to bring our One leverages data and analytics to identify economic downturn.
Market volatility is medicines to the patients who need them.
opportunities to improve healthcare, while higher than in Established Markets, with Therefore, we work with payers and a second builds on the success of our Venezuela, for example, currently beset providers to understand their priorities and service, inside sales and nurse educator by political and economic challenges.
requirements and generate evidence of teams, to ensure we engage customers in Regulatory and government interventions how our products offer value and support innovative ways that work for them.
A digital also typically present challenges in a cost-effective healthcare delivery.
team enhances the content and services number of markets at any one time.
Increasing access to healthcare we deliver online, while a Commercial AstraZeneca was the eighth largest AstraZeneca is committed to increasing Learning Academy seeks to deliver multinational pharmaceutical company access to healthcare for under-served excellence across the range of our global across the Emerging Markets in 2013 with patient populations in a sustainable way.
Our commercial revenue of $5.4 billion.
Within Emerging This is a priority for our Responsible operations unit strives to deliver these Markets, there are several particularly Business agenda.
good growth opportunities within China, Our access to healthcare strategy Russia, Africa, parts of Asia India, Malaysia, In 2013, one area of focus was medical comprises three strands: Indonesia and Vietnam, and Latin America affairs, where we engaged key opinion Argentina and Chile.
leaders in our clinical programmes and The first component represents the most took a lead in evidence generation, with important way in which we enable To expand our presence in Emerging greater numbers of patients involved in access to our medicines through our Markets, we have established an our interventional, real-world evidence, mainstream business.
International Region whose 16,100 and  studies.
employees, almost all of whom are AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 41 Strategic Report | Business Review | Sales and Marketing Confirmed external breaches Corrective actions Breaches of external sales and marketing In relation to breaches of Code of Conduct codes and regulations and Global Policies by Commercial employees including contract staff 2013 11 Number of persons 2012 10 2011 17 Action taken 2013 2012 1 Removed from role 187 188 Formal warning 568 685 Guidance and coaching 1,813 1,808 Total 2,568 2,681 1 In the majority of cases, this means dismissal or contract termination, but it can include resignation and demotion.
The second strand captures how we Sales and marketing ethics As shown in the Corrective actions table are making it easier for more patients to We are committed to delivering consistently above, following these breaches and it is afford our medicines, particularly in the high ethical standards of sales and important to note that a single breach can emerging middle class in Emerging marketing practice worldwide and to involve more than one person failing to Markets.
We will build on the experience ensuring compliance with our Ethical meet required standards, we removed 187 of initiatives such as our Faz Bem Interactions Policy.
We report publicly people from their role, formally warned 568 Wellbeing programme in Brazil, which on the number of: others and provided further guidance or provides significant discounts on our coaching on our policies for 1,813 more.
confirmed breaches of external sales medicines and provides other services The most serious breaches are raised with and marketing codes for patients, and our Patient Access Card the Audit Committee.
instances of failure to meet our standards schemes in Central and Eastern Europe.
by employees in our Commercial US Corporate Integrity Agreement and For example, Faz Bem expanded by Regions, including contract staff The Physician Payments Sunshine Act 29% in 2013, which led to us reaching corrective actions for breaches of our reporting 290,000 more Brazilian patients.
Code of Conduct or supporting policies In April 2010, AstraZeneca signed an The final area of focus is in strengthening by Commercial employees, including agreement with the DOJ to settle an healthcare capabilities, particularly in contract staff.
investigation relating to the sales and developing economies where the price marketing of Seroquel IR.
The requirements During 2013, we continued to provide of a medicine may not be the most of the associated CIA between training for employees on the global significant barrier to providing healthcare.
AstraZeneca and the Office of the Inspector standards that govern the way we conduct Our ambition here is to considerably General of the US Department of Health our business around the world.
We have expand our efforts in Africa to enable and Human Services OIG include a comprehensive processes for monitoring far greater access to hypertension number of active monitoring and compliance with our Code of Conduct medication, and other essential services, self-reporting obligations that differ from the and global policies, including dedicated for patients who do not have access to self-reporting required by authorities in the compliance professionals who support medication or other forms of care.
To meet these obligations, our line managers locally in monitoring their 2014, we will evaluate how we can best AstraZeneca provides notices to the OIG staff activities.
We also have a network do this and with whom we can partner describing the outcomes of particular of nominated signatories who review our most effectively.
We believe that working investigations potentially relating to promotional materials against all applicable in partnership with different stakeholders violations of certain laws, as well as a requirements.
In addition, in 2013, audit is the most effective and sustainable way separate annual report to the OIG professionals conducted compliance audits to increase access to healthcare.
summarising monitoring and investigation of a selection of our marketing companies.
outcomes relevant to the CIA requirements.
As shown in the Confirmed external Under the CIA, AstraZeneca also discloses If we are to fulfil our potential breaches chart above, we identified 11 on a publicly available website certain to transform the lives of confirmed breaches of external sales and payments to US physicians and institutions.
patients in Emerging Markets, marketing regulations or codes in 2013 In addition, with effect from March 2014, 2012: 10.
There were 1,773 instances of AstraZeneca will begin reporting to the US we need to develop non-compliance with AstraZenecas Code government detailed information relating sustainable ways of increasing of Conduct, Global Policies or related to payments to physicians and teaching access to healthcare.
control standards in our Commercial hospitals in the US, as required by The Regions, including contract staff and other Physician Payments Sunshine Act.
Mark Mallon third parties, the majority of which were Further information on AstraZenecas approach to EVP, International responsible business can be found in the Responsible minor 2012: 1,932.
We believe that the Business section from page 220 and on our website, movement in this number reflects our www.
42 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Manufacturing and Supply Our programme of investment in continuous improvement helps us get our medicines to patients as efficiently aspossible.
Product quality and supply chain Regulation and compliance We are committed to delivering product Facilities and processes for manufacturing People who take our quality that underpins the safety and medicines must observe rigorous medicines rightly expect efficacy of our medicines.
We have a standards of quality.
They are subject to them to be safe and comprehensive quality management inspections by regulatory authorities to effective.
Our quality system in place designed to assure the ensure compliance with prescribed quality of our products in compliance standards.
Regulatory authorities have the management systems are with relevant regulations.
power to require improvements to facilities designed to provide that and processes, halt production and impose Continuous improvement assurance.
conditions that must be satisfied before Our continuous improvement programme production can resume.
Regulatory David Smith allows us to improve our systems and standards are not harmonised globally EVP, Operations & IS minimise the impact of our activities on the and evolve over time.
We focus on what adds value to our customers and patients, as well as We hosted 26 independent inspections Our strategy is to balance innovative and waste elimination.
The programme has from 10 different regulatory authorities efficient in-house manufacturing capabilities delivered significant benefits in recent in 2013.
All observations from such with external manufacturing resources, years, including reduced manufacturing inspections are reviewed along with the particularly in relation to the early stages of lead times and lower average stock levels, outcomes of internal audits and subsequent our production process.
Where efficiencies both of which improve our ability to respond improvement actions are put in place as can be achieved, we continue to consider to customer needs and reduce inventory required to ensure ongoing compliance.
using outsourced production but our costs.
All improvements are designed to We are actively involved in providing strategy is to retain the final stages of the ensure we maintain product quality, safety input into evolving regulations, both at production cycle in-house.
This balance is and customer service.
national and international levels, through designed to give us product integrity and We have applied Lean production business our membership of industry associations.
quality assurance while affording us cost improvement tools and ways of working to We work actively, for example, with both efficiency and volume flexibility.
improve the efficiency of our manufacturing EFPIA and Pharmaceutical Research and We progressed two key production facilities plants for a number of years and, in recent Manufacturers of America on discussions during 2013 in China Taizhou, our second years, have applied them to the whole around improving supply chain security facility in the country, and in Russia of our supply chain.
This has led to and minimising drug shortages.
Vorsino, which will enable us to better improvements in quality, lead times and Our supply and manufacturing strategy is supply our products to both markets locally.
In 2013, based on our commitment to maintaining These sites are intended to commence we continued to establish more efficient the highest ethical standards while phased commercial production in processes, with experts from our global complying with internal policies, and laws 2014 2015.
In 2013, we also announced supply chain organisation providing and regulations.
We achieve this by placing plans to invest $190 million to construct a cross-functional support throughout compliance responsibility with line new facility at our Macclesfield UK facility the business.
managers who are supported by dedicated by 2017, to continue production of Zoladex.
Independent assurance The work is led by our global engineering is provided by our IA function.
group who put a strong focus on carrying out these projects fully in line with our ethical and safety standards.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 43 Strategic Report | Business Review | Manufacturing and Supply Supplier audits Number of Number of audits by Number of external geographic region 2013 Year internal audits audits Asia Pacific 28 2013 30 31 Europe 20 2012 44 438 Americas 11 2011 64 687 Middle East & Africa 2 Total 61 Managing risk Working with suppliers minor non-compliances.
None of the Given our strategy to outsource the majority We are committed to integrating suppliers audited this year will require of API manufacturing, we place particular AstraZenecas ethical standards into significant follow-up to confirm they will importance on our global procurement ourprocurement activities and decisions make the improvements we require.
We policies and integrated risk management worldwide.
Our objective is to monitor willnot use suppliers who are unable or processes to ensure uninterrupted supply compliance through our ongoing unwilling to meet our expectations in of high-quality raw materials.
Supplies are assessment and programmes, which a timely way.
During 2013, we identified purchased from a range of suppliers.
focuson areas experiencing the greatest and rejected 48 prospective suppliers We factor in a wide range of potential risks challenges.
We address challenges with from consideration during our due to global supply, such as disasters that our suppliers and promote improvement diligence process.
remove supply capability or the unavailability through collaboration.
Environmental impact of key raw materials, and work to ensure Our Global Responsible Procurement Our targets for 2013 included reducing: that these risks are effectively mitigated.
Standard defines one of the key business operational greenhouse gas footprint Contingency plans include the appropriate processes for integrating our ethical to794 thousand tonnes CO e yr use of dual or multiple suppliers and 2 standards into our procurement activity hazardous waste to 0.68 tonnes $m maintaining appropriate stock levels.
The same sales and non-hazardous waste to Although the price of raw materials may initial assessment process is used for all 0.51tonnes employee fluctuate, our global purchasing policies suppliers and more detailed, focused 3 water use to 3.9 million m. seek to avoid such fluctuations becoming assessments are then made, relevant to the material to our business.
We work to reduce our greenhouse service provided.
Since the programme gas emissions by, among other things, We also take into account reputational risk began in 2009, we have completed 7,138 improving our energy efficiency and associated with our use of suppliers and assessments of new and existing suppliers, pursuing lower-carbon alternatives to fossil are committed to working only with which accounts for approximately 90% of fuels at our sites.
We strive to ensure that suppliers that embrace standards of ethical our spend with suppliers.
our travel and transport activities are as behaviour that are consistent with our own.
We categorise suppliers as high, medium efficient as possible.
Our carbon footprint As part of our overall risk management, we orlow risk.
We focus our auditing efforts is also affected by some of our respiratory carefully consider the timing of investment on high and medium risk rated suppliers therapies, specifically our pressurised with a view to ensuring that secure supply but we also audit some suppliers that we metered-dose inhalers that rely on chains are in place for our products.
consider to be lower risk, to confirm our hydrofluoroalkane HFA propellants Wealso have a programme in place to performance expectations across all to deliver the medicine to a patients provide appropriate supply capabilities suppliers.
In 2013, we continued our audit airways.
While HFAs have no ozone forour new products.
activity with 61 audits across 25 countries depletion potential and a third or less 482 audits in 2012 as set out in the table of the global warming potential than the above.
A full audit of all incumbent suppliers As a responsible business, chlorofluorocarbons CFCs they replace, was completed in 2012, resulting in only they are still greenhouse gases.
Our target we will only work with those new supplier and reassessment audits is to reduce our operational greenhouse companies whose ethical taking place in 2013.
Improvements to the gas footprint excluding emissions from earlier stages of supplier due diligence, standards are consistent with patient use of our inhaler therapies by based on lessons learnt since 2009, have our own.
Our supplier due 20% from our 2010 levels by 2015.
In 2013, allowed an increased level of focus on our operational greenhouse gas footprint diligence processes help suppliers categorised as high risk.
totalled 718 thousand tonnes, a reduction provide confirmation that Fifty three percent of suppliers audited of 20% from our 2010 baseline.
Further they meet our expectations.
demonstrated standards that met our information on carbon reporting is included expectations, with a further 41% in the Responsible Business section from Katarina Ageborg implementing improvements to address page 220.
Chief Compliance Officer 44 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Operational greenhouse gas footprint Waste production Water 3 emissions thousand tonnes thousand tonnes million m 13 718 13 32.8 13 3.7 12 739 12 43.6 12 3.6 11 870 11 49.6 11 4.5 The management of waste is another intermediates and APIs, formulation and key aspect of our commitment and we packaging for our established brands.
have a 2015 target of a 15% reduction in The full data is available on our website, hazardous and non-hazardous waste from www.
Our primary focus is waste Our continued commitment to product prevention, but where this is not practical, stewardship is underpinned by our we concentrate on waste minimisation ongoing work to integrate environmental and appropriate treatment or disposal considerations into a medicines complete to maximise the reuse and recycling of life-cycle, from discovery and development, materials and minimise disposal to landfill.
through manufacturing, commercialisation In 2013, our total waste was 32.8 thousand and to its ultimate disposal.
We follow a tonnes with a tonnes $m index of 1.3.
Our progressive programme designed to ensure hazardous waste has been reduced by that our manufacturing emissions of APIs 47% a reduction of 31% indexed to $m do not exceed our own internally defined revenues since 2010, principally due to standards.
We confirmed safe discharges changing production patterns and a major at all of our own manufacturing sites in 2010 investment at our manufacturing site in the and have a rolling programme to confirm south west of the UK to enable recycling ongoing compliance.
During 2013 we and reuse of solvent wastes.
Our reassessed 12 of our sites to confirm safe non-hazardous waste indexed against discharges.
We also follow a progressive number of staff has not improved due approach and internal process to ensure to the significant reductions in our staff ongoing ecopharmacovigilance for our numbers since the baseline was set.
This involves regular reviewing of We recognise the need to use water emerging science and literature to identify responsibly and, where possible, to any new information that might inform the minimise the use of water in our facilities.
environmental risk management plans for To support the delivery of our target our products.
This is a novel initiative and to reduce water use by 25% from our we published our approach in the Drug 2010 levels by 2015, we now have water Safety journal in July 2013.
Further conservation plans at our largest sites.
information is available on our website, 3 In 2013, our water use was 3.7 million m, www.
com responsibility, a reduction of 19% from our 2010 baseline.
including environmental risk assessment Water use indexed to revenues was data for our medicines.
Further information on AstraZenecas approach to responsible business can be found in the Responsible We are also working to ensure that we Business section from page 220 and on our website, www.
measure and report the impact of our Figures have been revised from those previously external manufacturing activity on the published to incorporate our biologics capabilities into our targets.
The operational greenhouse gas footprint environment, and that our suppliers have figures have been revised to incorporate improved appropriate environmental improvement estimates of road freight and energy data.
Our targets for 2011-2015 were set in 2010. targets.
We believe we have captured data for more than 90% of the globally managed outsourced manufacture of key AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 45 Strategic Report | Pioneering science, life-changing medicines Making hearts beat longer Cardiac regeneration Our goal is to develop therapies for Additionally, in March 2013, AstraZeneca Pioneering science congestive heart failure patients by activating and Moderna Therapeutics agreed to cardiac stem cells in the heart to regenerate develop pioneering messenger RNA We aim to develop the myocardium.
If successful, this would Therapeutics.
These have the potential offer a potential cure to patients who are to develop therapeutic protein in vivo medicines that will dying of heart failure and create an entirely and restore cardiacfunction in the body.
slow or stop cardiac Then, in June 2013, we announced an Breakthrough science in heart regeneration agreement with the Karolinska Institutet, disease progression, indicates that specific powerful biological Stockholm, Sweden to create an integrated molecules, also known as paracrine centre for cardiovascular and metabolic or improve the factors, play a major role in cardiac stem diseases.
One of its priorities will be cell activation and the repair of damaged cardiac regeneration.
We are leveraging our biologics See the Research and Development section from page 36 damaged heart.
and the Cardiovascular and Metabolic disease section in the expertise in developing these potentially Therapy Area Review from page 52 for more information.
46 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 17.3 million Making hearts More people die annually from cardiovascular diseases than from any other cause an estimated 17.3 million people in 2008 beat longer 347 million Cardiac regeneration people worldwide have diabetes Life-changing medicines Each year around 5.8 million people are diagnosed with heart failure in the US, with more than 23 million diagnosed worldwide.
Under the current standard of care, 50% of patients will die within five years of diagnosis, with 90% dying within 10 years.
AstraZeneca has a strong history of innovation in cardiac care.
More than three decades ago, we revolutionised the treatment of heart failure, by introducing beta-blockers.
This innovation has saved many lives worldwide.
Our most recent contribution to cardiac care is Brilinta.
Real lives One young patient, now 49, was diagnosed with heart failure in 2001 and, 10 years later, received a heart transplant the only option available to her.
She said: It got to a point where I could only take 15 steps at a time before sitting down to catch my breath, and to me thiswas perfectly normal.
Most heart failure patients are not eligible for a heart transplant and her story emphasises thedesperate need for new therapeutic approaches to reduce the burden of heart failure.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 47
