BUSINESS BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE Our overall performance for the year has been extremely encouraging in a number of key respects: Continuing strong organic growth with service numbers up by 221,037 2012: 209,887 Improving customer quality: - lower churn - lower delinquency - lower bad debts - growing proportion of Gold Status members - increase in the average number of services being supplied - higher average revenue per customer A significant increase in the number of new Distributors Against the background of a broadly flat economy, and with household incomes remaining under pressure, our valuebased customer proposition and part-time earning opportunity are extremely attractive to both new members and new Distributors respectively.
Our continuing strong organic growth is underpinned by high levels of confidence amongst our Distributors in our brand and financial strength, the good value provided by our services, and our commitment to delivering a best-inclass customer service.
MARGINS Our overall gross margin during the year was in line with previous guidance at 13.9% 2012: 16.2%.
The principal factors behind this reduced margin were the absence of the one-off marketing support payment of 3m received from npower during the previous year, combined with the impact of an exceptionally cold winter which increased energy sales which are lower margin as a proportion of our total revenues.
We maintain our previous guidance on gross profit margins, and expect them to stay within a range of 13% to 15% for the foreseeable future.
Our administration expenses fell during the year to 5.9% of revenue 2012: 6.9%, reflecting the impact of the significant increase in average revenue per customer and greater economies of scale, combined with a reduction in bad debts as a percentage of revenue from 2.0% to 1.5% over the year.
Distribution costs increased to 17.8m 2012: 16.0m broadly in line with the growth in customer numbers during the year.
This represents a reduction from 3.4% to 3.0% of revenue, reflecting the impact of the changes we implemented in January 2012 to reduce seasonal fluctuations in group commissions against a background of higher energy prices and record energy consumption during an exceptionally cold winter.
Staff numbers grew in line with service number growth, but below the growth in revenues.
We successfully maintained our strong reputation for delivering an exceptionally high standard of customer service during the year, and continue to look for efficiency savings throughout the business to maximise economies of scale as we continue to grow.
MARKET Our focus is on supplying a wide range of essential utility services to both domestic and small business customers: these are substantial markets and represent a considerable opportunity for further organic growth.
We remain a small operator in a market dominated by former monopoly suppliers and a handful of other new entrants.
However, our unique position as the only integrated multi-utility supplier gives us a considerable competitive advantage.
We combine a highly efficient cost base, good customer service and competitive pricing with the unique benefit of a single monthly bill for each customer and an attractive range of other membership benefits.
11 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED CUSTOMERS 2013 2012 Residential Club 373,056 333,497 Business Club 28,313 26,649 Total Club 401,369 360,146 Non Club 52,062 45,005 Total Telecom Plus 453,431 405,151 TML 7,601 10,338 Total Group 461,032 415,489 Our customer base can be split into four groups as set out in the above table, each of which has different characteristics: i Residential customers who are members of the Utility Warehouse Discount Club 81.0% of our customers.
On average these customers each take 3.80 services: ii Small businesses who are members of the Utility Warehouse Discount Club for Business 6.1% of our customers.
On average these customers each take 2.57 services: iii Residential customers who are not members of our Discount Club 11.3% of our customers.
These are typically either households who have moved into a property where we are the incumbent energy supplier and have not yet applied to join the Club, or where we are only providing energy services on a prepayment basis.
On average, these customers each take 1.66 services: and iv Small businesses signed up through our wholly-owned TML subsidiary 1.6% of our customers, taking on average 3.23 services: despite remaining profitable this group is expected to continue falling steadily in size going forward, and is no longer considered a core part of the business.
Within the residential Club, there is a further difference in quality and therefore in the revenues and profits they will generate over the time they remain a Club member both between customers who are homeowners and those who are tenants, and also depending on the numbers of services we are providing to them.
We are therefore pleased that the proportion of homeowners has remained broadly steady at just under 75%, and the proportion of new members taking at least four services Gold Status members increased significantly compared with the previous year as can be seen from the graph below: PERCENTAGE OF NEW RESIDENTIAL CLUB MEMBERS WITH GOLD STATUS 60% 55% 50% 45% 40% 35% 30% 25% 20% Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY12 FY12 FY12 FY12 FY13 FY13 FY13 FY13 12 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS Although on average it is more expensive to sign up a customer with Gold Status, these members benefit from our most competitive prices, generate higher commission for Distributors, and have the greatest lifetime value to the Company.
Overall monthly churn in our residential Club continued to fall during the year, declining to an average of just 1.2% during the final quarter.
This improvement illustrates the impact of the steadily improving quality of our customer base: 2.0% RESIDENTIAL CLUB CHURN 1.8% 1.6% 1.4% 1.2% 1.0% Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY10 FY10 FY10 FY10 FY11 FY11 FY11 FY11 FY12 FY12 FY12 FY12 FY13 FY13 FY13 FY13 These churn figures include members who move out of a property we are supplying either because it is sold or they have come to the end of their tenancy, notwithstanding that a proportion of the new occupiers moving into such properties subsequently choose us as their new supplier: this means that if we reported our churn on the basis of the number of services we cease to supply, then our reported churn would be lower than the figures shown above.
13 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED The rise in the average number of services being taken under our Utility Warehouse brand to 3.71 2012: 3.55 combined with higher energy prices and an exceptionally cold winter has led to a significant increase in average revenue per customer during the year: 1,400 1,300 AVERAGE REVENUE PER CUSTOMER 1,200 1,100 1,000 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 These revenue figures relate to the Customer Management operating segment and exclude our TML subsidiary We enjoy high levels of overall customer satisfaction, as evidenced by the positive reviews we receive from Which?
magazine on a regular basis, and the feedback we receive from the regular customer surveys we are sending out each month to members who have needed to contact our call centre.
This feedback is consistently generating a positive Net Promoter Score of around 40: to put this into context, any score above zero in the utility sector would be considered highly acceptable E. ON have reported a score of -17 and the average in a 2013 Satmetrix industry report on internet service providers was 9.
Our exclusive CashBack card continues to generate significant monthly savings for our members, although average spend has fallen as the recession has increasingly started to bite over the last 12 months.
The total value of the CashBack we have credited to customers bills since we launched this programme now exceeds 13m.
In addition, we continue to see a positive trend in the number of customers using our online shopping portal and price comparison service to help them find the cheapest online supplier for a wide range of everyday household goods, and to earn additional CashBack.
14 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS SERVICES Our full range of services include Fixed Telephony calls and line rental, Broadband, Mobile, Gas, Electricity, CashBack card, and Non-Geographic Numbers.
At the year end, we supplied a total of 1,602,060 services 2012: 1,381,023, representing a net increase of 221,037 during the year.
Services 2013 2012 Electricity 403,922 348,629 Gas 334,565 290,057 Fixed Telephony calls 250,643 232,890 Fixed Telephony line rental 221,692 191,667 Broadband 175,337 140,771 Mobile 89,017 63,724 CashBack card 117,025 101,351 Non-Geographic Numbers 9,859 11,934 Total 1,602,060 1,381,023 Residential Club 1,418,078 1,211,122 Business Club 72,676 65,683 Total Club 1,490,754 1,276,805 Non Club 86,724 73,638 Total Telecom Plus 1,577,478 1,350,443 TML 24,582 30,580 Total Group 1,602,060 1,381,023 We saw consistent quarterly growth throughout the year in all the core services we provide Gas, Electricity, Mobile, Home Phone and Broadband, with a particularly pleasing 39.7% rise in the number of mobile services provided.
This increase means penetration of Mobile within our residential Club has risen from 9.7% to 17.0% over the last two years as a result of our continuing investment in making this service more attractive to members.
With over 30% of new members now taking this service, significant scope remains for further improvement in this level of penetration over the next few years.
CASHBACK CARD Our exclusive CashBack card, which we launched in October 2008, is an important customer acquisition and retention tool.
It gives our members the opportunity to achieve additional savings of between 3% and 7% on their shopping at a wide range of participating retailers, which they receive as a credit on their next monthly bill from us.
We have seen a 15% increase during the year in the number of cards in issue to 117,025 2012: 101,351, with the proportion of new residential Club members applying for a card currently running at around 30%.
We believe this slightly lower level of take-up principally reflects the current challenging economic climate, where many new customers are finding it difficult to fund the switch from paying in arrears on their credit card, to paying for their purchases in advance with a prepaid card.
We paid over 4.4m 2012: 4.4m in CashBack to our members during the year funded entirely by the retailers in the programme, with many customers achieving a reduction of between 20% and 30% on the amount they pay for the utilities we are supplying to them each month, simply by using their CashBack card instead of an alternative payment card for most of their regular household shopping.
15 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED CUSTOMER SERVICE We pride ourselves on delivering first-class customer service through a single call centre based in the UK.
We try to ensure where possible that the first person a customer speaks to is able to resolve any issues with their multi-utility account.
We continue to invest in improving the customer service experience we deliver, and have introduced a range of qualitative and quantitative performance measurement tools into our call centre to enable us to monitor and improve the overall quality of our members customer service experience.
We have been delighted at the consistently high customer service ratings we receive in Which?
magazine, and the overwhelmingly positive feedback we receive from customers in our own surveys.
EMPLOYEES We rely on the combined efforts of around 650 employees to manage relationships with both our customers and Distributors, and deliver a consistently high quality of service at all times.
We pay considerable attention to recruiting, developing and retaining people with appropriate skills.
We have introduced our own Assessment Centre to give the Company greater control over the recruitment process and to ensure we select the very best candidates for our positions.
Once they have joined, new starters go through a structured training programme to ensure that they are fully equipped to resolve any customer queries.
The combination of valuing and developing our staff, our service-oriented culture and the day-to-day reinforcement of our core values are key competitive advantages in enabling us to attract and retain a motivated, talented and diverse workforce.
Opportunities for employment, training, career progression and promotion are determined on the basis of each individuals ability, attitude and track record, irrespective of their gender, ethnic origin, nationality, age, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
We continue to invest in our people, and have comprehensive manager and supervisor development programmes, which are accompanied by executive coaching.
We offer three Advanced Apprenticeship Programmes in Customer Service, Business Administration and Management.
We promote from within where possible into both specialist and managerial roles.
Our monthly Employee Recognition Awards enable the Company to celebrate and reward employees who have performed exceptionally.
We keep employees informed on a regular basis of the financial performance of the business and other matters of potential concern to them, through the Company intranet, ad-hoc emails, focus groups, the monthly Company newsletter and quarterly breakfast forums with the CEO.
We operate an open-door policy throughout the business, and provide staff with various mechanisms for providing feedback and making suggestions, including an annual staff survey.
This year, for the first time, we entered the Best Companies to Work for Survey and were pleased to receive a One to Watch accreditation rating.
We have an active staff social committee which organises a wide range of events, supported by the Company, including the annual Summer and Christmas parties.
We also have a Fun Fund set aside for departmental social events.
We promote staff wellbeing, through an Employee Assistance Helpline, subsidised on-site fitness classes, periodic atdesk massages, healthy meal options in the staff restaurant and a cycle to work scheme.
We continue to invest in our premises as necessary, to ensure the working environment is as attractive as possible, consistent with the practical needs of running the business.
16 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS With the exception of our warehouse team, all our employees now work together in Network HQ, our Head Office building in London.
We operate a heavily subsidised staff restaurant, and provide a Recreation Room in both our Head Office and warehouse premises.
We provide a wide range of other staff benefits including a significant discount on the services we provide, employee loans at preferential interest rates, a generous Christmas Bonus scheme and recognition for five and 10 years service.
We are pleased to report that levels of staff absence this year remained at the encouragingly low level we achieved during the preceding year.
The Company operates an HM Revenue and Customs approved employee share option plan, under which employees are granted options to purchase shares in the Company which are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
The exercise price is the market price at the time of granting the option.
Our policy is to issue options to all employees after the satisfactory completion of their probationary period, and additional options when 10 years service has been completed and in other appropriate circumstances e. g. promotion.
As at 31 March 2013 there were outstanding options over 2,243,787 shares which had been granted to staff, representing approximately 3.2% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Employees returning from maternity leave with children less than 12 months old are able to benefit from a company contribution towards the cost of an external childcare service provider of their choice.
We also provide facilities for staff to purchase childcare vouchers in a tax-efficient manner using a salary sacrifice scheme, in accordance with HM Revenue and Customs guidelines.
We encourage all employees to participate in a stakeholder pension scheme operated by Aviva.
Participants can choose their own contribution level, which is matched by the Company within certain limits, depending on length of service.
DISTRIBUTORS Our Distributors are one of the key strengths of our business.
In contrast to other utility suppliers, the alignment of financial interest provided by our revenue-sharing model, the structure of our compensation plan, and the substantial number of Distributors who hold equity or share options in the Company, incentivise them to focus their activities on finding creditworthy higher-spending customers who will reap the maximum savings from using our services, and will thus be least likely to churn: by doing so, they maximise their own long-term income.
This ensures that cases of misselling are generally both inadvertent and extremely rare.
We make available a variety of training courses both online and classroom based, designed to provide both the skills and knowledge they need to gather customers and recruit other Distributors effectively and successfully: all of these courses are free to attend.
Our Car Plan, which provides eligible Distributors with a subsidised Utility Warehouse branded Mini, remains extremely popular and around 500 vehicles are now in circulation 2012: 370.
Owners inform us that they find these helpful in raising their local profile, resulting in enquiries from both potential new customers and Distributors.
ENVIRONMENT We are conscious of the role we have to play in minimising the environmental impact of our activities.
We operate an energy efficiency helpline to provide advice to customers on how they can reduce their energy usage: we enable qualifying customers to access free home insulation: we actively promote Feed-In Tariffs: and we encourage customers to monitor their energy usage by providing regular meter readings.
Our online membership offers customers additional savings in return for not receiving a paper bill each month.
This category is attracting around one third of all new members, which has a beneficial impact on the amount of paper we use.
17 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED We launched an online application process for Distributors in November 2011.
This has since been improved, and now accounts for over 80% of customer applications: as a result, the quantity of paper application forms we need to print has reduced significantly.
We participate in the Shred-it recycling programme, with a certificated saving of 297 trees during the year: we also recycle all of our cardboard, and use only fsc-certified paper: our office lighting is low-energy, and controlled by motion sensors, which automatically turn off lights in unused areas of the building: our air-conditioning is constantly monitored, and is zonal to small areas, allowing close management of heating and cooling.
We recycle both mobile phones and toner cartridges, within the scope of our annual Charity Partnership.
In the summer of 2012, we started a working group within Head Office looking to minimise our environmental impact and promote energy efficiency: this is chaired by the Energy Director and involves a cross section of 12 employees.
To date this group has: set up recycling points within each department for waste: introduced a car pooling scheme for employees: arranged timer switches on many electronic devices to minimise usage: actively promoted our Cycle to Work scheme: and rolled out print less campaigns and competitions within the office environment.
Both monetary and carbon savings are being tracked and monitored with savings being passed at the end of each year to our charity partner.
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT We launched our first annual Charity Partnership in support of the Make-A-Wish foundation in January 2012.
With the enthusiastic support of our staff and Distributors, we were delighted to raise a total of 200,000 which was presented to them at our annual sales conference in March.
For the current year, we have chosen Breast Cancer Campaign and Prostate Cancer UK as our joint Charity Partners.
We look forward to raising a similar sum to help these extremely worthwhile causes over the coming year.
PRINCIPAL RISKS Background The Group faces various risk factors, both internal and external, which could have a material impact on long-term performance.
However, the Companys underlying business model is considered relatively low-risk, with no need for management to take any disproportionate risks in order to preserve or generate shareholder value.
The Group continues to develop and operate a consistent and systematic risk management process, which involves risk ranking, prioritisation and subsequent evaluation, with a view to ensuring all significant risks have been identified, prioritised and where possible eliminated, and that systems of control are in place to manage any remaining risks.
As described in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 33, a formal document is prepared by the executive directors and senior management team on a regular basis detailing the key risks faced by the Group and the operational controls in place to mitigate those risks: this document is then reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Business model The principal risks outlined below should be viewed in the context of the Groups business model as a reseller of utility services Gas, Electricity, Telephony and Broadband under the Utility Warehouse and TML brands.
As a reseller, the Group does not own any of the network infrastructure required to deliver its services to customers.
This means that while the Company is heavily reliant on third party providers, it is insulated from all the direct risks associated with owning and or operating such capital intensive infrastructure itself.
18 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS The Groups services are promoted using word of mouth by a large network of independent Distributors, who are paid solely on a commission basis.
This means that the Group has minimal fixed costs associated with acquiring new customers.
The principal specific risks arising from the Groups business model, and the measures taken to mitigate those risks, are set out below: Reputational risk The Groups reputation amongst its customers, suppliers and independent Distributors is fundamental to the future success of the Group.
Failure to meet expectations in terms of the services we provide, the way that we do business or in our financial performance could have a material negative impact on the Groups performance.
In relation to customer service, reputational risk is principally mitigated through a focus on closely monitoring staff performance and through the provision of rigorous staff training.
Responsibility for maintaining effective relationships with suppliers and Distributors rests primarily with the appropriate member of the Groups senior management team with responsibility for the relevant area.
Any material changes to supplier agreements and Distributor commission arrangements which could impact the Groups relationships are generally negotiated by the executive directors and ultimately approved by the full Board.
Information technology risk The Group is dependent on its proprietary billing and customer management software for the successful operation of its business model.
This software is developed and maintained in accordance with the changing needs of the business by a team of highly skilled, long-standing, motivated and experienced individuals.
All significant changes which are made to the billing and customer management software are extensively tested before launch and are ultimately approved by the heads of the IT and Billing departments in consultation with the Chief Executive as appropriate.
Back-ups of both the software and underlying billing and customer data are made on a regular basis and securely stored off-site.
The Group also has extensive back-up information technology infrastructure in the event of a failure of the main system, ensuring that a near-seamless service to customers can be maintained.
Legislative and regulatory risk The Group is subject to varying laws and regulations, including possible adverse effects from European regulatory intervention.
The majority of the Groups services are supplied into highly regulated markets, and this could restrict the operational flexibility of the business.
In order to mitigate this risk, the Group maintains an appropriate relationship with both Ofgem and Ofcom the UK regulators for the energy and communications markets respectively.
We engage with officials from both these organisations on a periodic basis to ensure they are aware of our views when they are consulting on proposed regulatory changes, or if there are competition issues we need to raise with them: in particular, we have had a number of meetings with Ofgem over the course of the last year to discuss their proposed Retail Market Review, which seems likely to have a significant impact on the way energy has historically been sold.
The Group is also exposed to European regulatory intervention, but there is little if anything we can do at a practical level to influence any such events.
However, it should be noted that the regulatory environment for the various markets in which we operate is generally focussed on promoting competition.
As one of the new entrants, it seems reasonable to expect that most such changes will broadly be for the benefit the Group, given our relatively small size compared to the former monopoly incumbents with whom we compete.
Fraud and bad debt risk The Company has a universal supply obligation in relation to the provision of energy to domestic customers.
This means that although the Company is entitled to request a reasonable deposit from potential new customers who are 19 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED not considered creditworthy, the Company is obliged to supply domestic energy to everyone who submits a properly completed application form.
Where customers subsequently fail to pay for the energy they have used Delinquent Customers, there is likely to be a considerable delay before the Company is able to eliminate its exposure to future bad debt from them by either installing a pre-payment meter or disconnecting their supply, and the costs associated with preventing such Delinquent Customers from increasing their indebtedness are not always fully recovered.
Fraud within the telephony industry may arise from customers using the services without intending to pay their supplier.
The amounts involved are generally small as the Group has sophisticated call traffic monitoring systems to identify material occurrences of fraud.
The Group is able to immediately eliminate any further bad debt exposure by disconnecting any telephony service that demonstrates a suspicious usage profile, or falls into arrears on payments.
More generally, we are also exposed to payment card fraud, where customers use stolen cards to obtain credit e. g. on their CashBack card or goods e. g. Smartphones from us: we are constantly refining our fraud protection systems to reduce our exposure to such activities.
Wholesale prices The Group does not own or operate any utility network infrastructure itself, choosing instead to purchase the capacity needed from third parties.
The advantage of this approach is that the Group is not exposed to either technological risk, capacity risk or the risk of obsolescence, as it can purchase the exact amount of each service required to meet its customers needs each month.
Whilst there is a theoretical risk that in some of the areas in which the Group operates it may be unable to secure access to the necessary infrastructure on commercially attractive terms, in practice the pricing of access to such infrastructure is either regulated as in the energy market or subject to significant competitive pressures as in telephony and broadband.
The profile of our customers, the significant quantities of each service they consume in aggregate, and our clearly differentiated route to market has historically proven attractive to potential partners, who compete increasingly aggressively in order to secure a share of our growing business.
The supply of energy, which accounts for an increasing proportion of sales each year, has different risks associated with it.
The wholesale price can be extremely volatile, and customer demand can be subject to considerable short term fluctuations depending on the weather.
The Company has a long-standing supply relationship with npower under which they assume the substantive risks and rewards of hedging and buying energy for our customers.
As described previously, the main supply agreement with npower was renewed on 24 May 2011 with npower additionally taking on the seasonal working capital obligation associated with supplying customers who use an annual budget plan to pay for their energy.
Competitive risk The Group operates in highly competitive markets and significant product innovations or increased price competition could impact future profit margins.
In order to maintain its competitive position, there is a constant focus on ways of improving operational efficiency and keeping the cost base as low as possible.
New product innovations are monitored closely by senior management and the Group is typically able to respond rapidly by offering any new services through the infrastructure of its existing suppliers.
The Group offers a unique multiservice proposition.
The increasing proportion of customers who are benefiting from a genuine multiservice proposition, that is unavailable from any other supplier, materially reduces any competitive threat.
Andrew Lindsay Chief Executive Officer 20 May 2013 20 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
