Directors report and business review Directors report and business review This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the Business objectives and strategies members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
WHSmith intends to build on its position as the UKs most popular TheCompany, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not stationer, bookseller and newsagent by continuing to grow its accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this Travel business and delivering its High Street strategic plan.
document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
By their We aim to improve the Companys profitability and cash flow nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties generation, delivering sustainable returns to shareholders.
facing the Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty since Webelieve that a concentration on these factors will be reflected future events and circumstances can cause results and in a total shareholder return that compares well with our peer developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The group of equivalent listed companies.
Since 2007 we will have 1 forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information returned over 536m of cash to shareholders as part of our available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the long-term strategy to create value for shareholders.
Company undertakes no obligation to update these forwardWe invest where we believe we will achieve a return on looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be investment above our cost of capital.
While external economic construed as a profit forecast.
and other factors may affect us in the short-term, we believe that most of the markets we are focused on will deliver sustainable Principal activities returns.
The Company, one of the UKs leading retail groups, is made up Travel is focused on delivering value to shareholders through oftwo core businesses Travel and High Street.
Travel sells a organic growth in its existing outlets, securing new contracts, tailored range of Newspapers, Magazines, Books and Impulse trialling new formats, increasing average transaction value and products in airports, train stations, motorway service areas, making improvements to trading efficiency.
hospitals and workplaces, primarily in the UK: and High Street sells a wide selection of Stationery, Books, Newspapers, The High Street plan concentrates on building on our authority Magazines and Impulse products and a small range of incore categories, optimising margins, controlling costs and Entertainment products.
ensuring we deliver the retail basics.
High Street continues to make significant progress in the delivery of its plan, despite the WHSmiths outlets are frequently the first choice for people current economic climate.
buying our products on the UK high street and we are a trusted convenience retailer for customers at travel locations.
We have We aim to act responsibly towards all our stakeholders, including an extensive and growing store portfolio operating from 673 customers, suppliers, business partners, employees and the Travel units including franchise units and 615 High Street stores, communities in which we operate.
Our annual Corporate with leading positions in Stationery, Books and Magazines.
Responsibility Report is available at www.
co. uk cr, Overall, WHSmith employs approximately 15,000 staff, primarily with a summary of our approach on pages 17 to 19 of thisreport.
WHSmith also reaches customers online 24 hours a day via www.
co. uk and its specialist personalised greetings cards and gift websites, www.
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange SMWH and is included in the FTSE 250 Index.
More information about WHSmith is available at www.
1 Includes proposed final dividend of 21.3p and 50m share buyback announced on 10October2013.
WH Smith PLC 6 Annual report and accounts 2013
