Berendsen plc Report and 24 Accounts 2013 Business line review Workwear.
The Workwear business line delivers and maintains workwear to many private and public organisations across Europe.
Our service meets the needs of customers in many sectors allowing them to focus on their core business.
Market overview Drivers and trends The European textile maintenance market is very fragmented with only The core determinant of demand for workwear from our actual and a small number of large players.
The essence of our business is serving potential customer base is economic activity.
However, the trend towards customers with a trouble-free supply of workwear for their employees.
outsourcing drives the maintenance segment of the market at a faster Our plants operate in focused geographical areas in order to guarantee pace and the factors behind this conversion to rental are: alocal approach towards our customers.
For our customers, outsourcing Corporate image Presenting a consistent and identifiable image of this service means that we take complete responsibility for all activities tocustomers.
regarding Workwear from the start to the end of the cycle.
The advantage for our customers is that they can save costs, free up time, improve image, Health & Safety compliance Specialist garments to meet the regulatory space, personnel and capital resources.
All these resources can be used requirements of different industries EN ISO standards.
bythe customer to focus on their core business activities.
Operational efficiency Outsourcing non-core activities including laundering and maintenance.
Free-up capital Allowing customers to invest in their own business.
Economics The scale of larger and specialist operations purchase and maintenance drives lower unit costs.
Product specification Technical support and tailor-made innovations.
Environment Providing more environmentally friendly solutions.
Always moving forward Building on strong foundations Our production concept of lean production and self-managed teams, which we brand CL2000, continues to deliver strong results.
Now implemented in both Rainhill and Wakefield in the UK, this concept supports our strategic goal of reducing operating costs and improving customer focus and profitability.
We now use our experience and expertise in this area for the benefit of our customers and our business.
The highlyand multi-skilled teams operating in lines provide the ultimate in high quality, dependable and personalised service.
The introduction has increased the quality ofservice, our employee satisfaction, our customer satisfaction and the retention of business.
Peter Havus Managing Director, Workwear Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 25 Empowerment gives better service The CL concept is highly focused on empowering employees.
They become multi-skilled in order to be able to plan and take responsibility for each task, and they have direct contact with their customers.
100% delivery on financial targets since the implementation in our Rainhill plant.
At first I had some doubts whether this new concept would work.
But today I feel much closer to my customers, I understand their individual needs and requirements Contracts Performance and can respond to them quickly.
2013 2012 Long-term customer relationships are Julie Hannon m m key for long-term cooperations and Laundry Operative, Rainhill Revenue 305.8m 288.0m therefore contract management is a strategic area for us to manage in a Adjusted 60.5m 51.0m operating profit professional way to our customers satisfaction.
To build strong relationships Adjusted 19.8% 17.7% operating margin and loyalty it is important that we continuously strive to deliver good Before amortisation of customer contracts service and quality, in combination with and exceptional items proactive customer service from all Restated for the introduction of IAS 19 our dedicated front office colleagues.
Employee Benefits Revised By again using best practice as the driver tool to share experience across the Strategic priorities business line, we expect to improve our We plan to increase our focus on utilising customer loyalty and by that long-term the market opportunities by further retention.
The following components strengthening our competencies in are key enablers to leverage on our the sales, product development and business model to our customers marketing to improve our momentum in satisfaction: growth according to our strategy.
At the k Delivering on time with high quality same time we will continue leveraging products: and harvesting through our operational excellence by enhancing best practice k Access to essential information about sharing across the business line.
ongoing service from us, either via our customer service or web portals: k Substantial available market confirmed within our geographical footprint: k Innovation, product and service development: k Improve capabilities to define go to market strategies for existing and k Garment lead times when starting newattractive market sectors: upanew customer or normal replacements of garments: k Increase focus on key account sales including Pan-European accounts: k Transparency regarding total cost and ofownership: and k Continuous leverage and harvesting k Build stronger customer relationships inoperational excellence area and and loyalty which underpins our enhance best practice sharing further.
growth further by determined colleagues with customer focus.
Berendsen plc Report and 26 Accounts 2013 Business line review Always moving forward Lowering our service costs We want to deliver a more effective and cost-efficient solution to our customers than 20% they can provide themselves.
In 2013 we have worked on many projects to continue to efficiency improvement after secure this.
our customer service models redesign.
We have re-designed our customer service model in the UK which has led to a 20% efficiency improvement overall and significant improvement in first-time resolution of customer queries.
We have developed a very efficient customer contact-planning tool based on criteria such as satisfaction score, contract end date etc.
With this we are proactively predicting our customers need for contact in advance, rather than reacting to incoming customer calls.
Our focus on textile management, In October 2013, we completed, on Operational highlights based on best practices and workflow schedule, the conversion of a second Revenue was up 6% in the period at optimisation which we defined last plant, at Wakefield, and have already 305.8 million 2012: 288.0 million, year, delivered significant savings in seen productivity improvement in line with adjusted operating profit 19% ahead textile purchases in the first year of with our plan.
In Germany, our revenue at 60.5 million 2012: 51.0 million.
growth was almost 8% following Underlying constant currency growth significant new contract wins and this A key element of our margin increase was 3% for revenue and 15% for adjusted was a key driver of our excellent profit has been the improvement in Germany operating profit.
The adjusted operating growth in the business, the highest for and the UK where the opportunities margin increased 210bps to 19.8%.
for best practice transfer are greatest.
We continue to make progress in We delivered in aggregate a 3% increase Economic activity in Denmark and delivering the benefits of best practice in revenue and a 22% increase in Sweden was mixed and while this transfer and in implementing the key operating profit, resulting in a margin held back top line growth in Sweden elements of our standard business improvement of 200bps.
We have overall, we did see a stronger second model.
Our international collection, made good strides towards moving half with Denmark ending the year with where we have taken the best design these countries towards the margin growth of 5%.
Our Dutch business, also elements from different markets, is potential we see in our best practice a best practice reference operation, selling well and has reduced material reference countries.
made good progress in tough local cost lead times further compared conditions, growing revenue by 3%.
In the UK, we have continued to deliver to locally sourced collections.
Despite an economic environment significant benefits at our Rainhill Salesforce efficiency continued to which is still challenging, these countries plant since the conversion to the same improve, particularly in national accounts, also benefited from operational production model we use in Continental through our focus on sales management improvements and in aggregate their Europe, which is based on the principles and better coaching methods delivered margins increased significantly.
of lean production and self-managed by our Sales Academy programme.
Our operational excellence programme, Plans for 2014 Productivity at the plant is up and its supported by focused improvement margin increased by almost 4% over the In 2014 we will be focused on keeping reviews, has delivered productivity year.
We are also taking the opportunity the business growing and leveraging improvements of almost 5% in aggregate to consolidate production in 2014 and our operational excellence to deliver across the business line.
At the same we are consulting on the closure of one improved results.
Specific areas of time, we have delivered service and of our smaller plants into Rainhill to drive focus will be capturing best practice quality improvements with consistently for further productivity improvements.
opportunities to close the differences in higher customer satisfaction scores.
There is a modest cost of exit, which will margin between countries: working to be reported in the segment result in the improve organic revenue growth rates: first half of 2014. and building best-in-class customer service processes to improve our retention rate.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 27 High level of motivation Our employees are responding very positively to our new service model.
Clear areas of responsibility and direct contact to customers, combined with their expert knowledge, has motivated our employees to offer the best possible service.
50% From 5% to 50% improvement in first-time resolution of customer queries.
New iPad Workwear application We have made the showing of our service offering and our garments easier and more involving.
With a few sweeps we can show the customer a complete solution for their specific needs.
