Business review 2013 has been another successful year for Aberdeen.
We have delivered on our objectives and this is reflected in our KPIs.
Strong growth in revenues and operating profits was driven by good flows into our higher margin products.
Overview The Group recorded net revenues of 1,078.5 million 24% and Gross new business inflows for the period were 43.9 billion underlying operating profit before tax of 489.2 million 39%.
Outflows were 46.4 billion 2012: Underlying profit before tax increased to 482.7 million 39% 36.0 billion, resulting in negative net flows of 2.5 billion and statutory profit before tax was 390.3 million 45%.
Average Notwithstanding net outflows, the quality of net new business management fee margins continue to increase the average for flows is the key driver of the growth in revenues and profits.
the strong flows to higher margin products have been key to our strong financial performance and growth in operating margin.
Our balance sheet and cash position are significantly stronger and we were able to eliminate our reliance on the regulatory capital We had for some time been seeking to moderate the rate of waiver.
Closing net cash is 426.6 million 2012: 266.4 million.
inflows to our GEM funds so that the quality of the product is not compromised.
We implemented an initial charge, for the benefit We completed two infill acquisitions: Artio, which has added of existing investors, on any new investment into our UK and 5.9 billion of fixed income and 0.8 billion of global equities Luxembourg funds.
AuM, and Aberdeen SVG, which brought 4.3 billion in funds of private equity.
In the period since implementation we have seen a moderate level of net outflows, but the early signs are that it will have the desired We continue to focus our distribution effort on markets with effect of reducing inflows to more sustainable levels.
the largest asset pools, particularly the US and Europe.
The brand refresh, which we implemented in May, has been well At the end of September 2013, we managed 113.8 billion in received and we believe this to be an important component equities funds.
Beyond equities, in our effort to broaden our distribution in these markets.
we have a number of other capabilities where we have a strong track record and good performance.
The Artio and Aberdeen SVG AuM deals strengthened our product range.
We continue to support Closing AuM is 200.4 billion, 7% higher than September 2012. these other products, which include European equities, regional Average AuM for 2013 was 202.8 billion, compared with emerging market equities, EMD, Asian fixed income, property 180.2 billion for 2012 13%.
multi manager and multi asset.
4.7 billion of AuM growth is from markets, foreign exchange The property multi manager team have joined the solutions desk movements and performance.
Market conditions were strong for to bring all fund of funds structures together to offer full solutions much of the year but from May onwards, macro issues resulted products to clients.
in stiff headwinds for emerging markets.
The investment team review section explains some of the steps that we have taken in the year to market our products.
Gross inflows by asset class, bn Gross inflows by region, bn Equities Fixed Solutions Property Money EMEA Americas Asia Pacic income market 30 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report However, the rate has moderated.
Since August we have Investment team review successfully recycled a large portion of outflows among our existing client base.
Equities This has also allowed us to showcase our other capabilities, such as frontier markets, Latin American and emerging AuM market infrastructure equities.
Equities In general, the assets managed by the GEM team have bn been 'sticky' despite macro uncertainty.
This reflects the confidence of investors in our investment process and the AuM at 30 September 2012 100.7 longer-term outlook.
Gross inflows 29.0 Global equities Gross outflows 22.5 New business flows into global equities were broadly neutral Net flows 6.5 during the fiscal year with AuM for the team reaching record levels due to market movements.
Market and exchange movements 5.8 Performance lagged behind comparative benchmarks for 1 and Artio acquisition 0.8 3 years as macro issues have had a pronounced negative effect AuM at 30 September 2013 113.8 on our stock driven investment process.
Our position of being underweight to the US market and subsequently overweight to emerging markets and other Key events regions has negatively affected relative performance.
A common theme across the desks was the impact that Other regions the macro factors have had on markets and the knock on Our funds benefited from stronger European market conditions, effect on performance.
This has been most acutely felt in but perhaps not as much as others which enjoy such conditions.
Our investee companies tend to be strong and well managed, Emerging equities markets peaked in March 2013, but operating sustainable cash generating business models and speculation that the US Federal Reserve would begin possessing sensible balance sheets.
Their improved profitability unwinding its Quantitative Easing QE programme put is brought about by continued efforts to keep costs under pressure on currencies and stock markets.
control and enhance operating procedures more than by While markets rebounded with the Federal Reserve deferring dependency on increased customer demand.
tapering, the economic consequences are still being felt.
Outlook Meanwhile, European markets have been stronger over the past Next year could be another tough year in the face of slower year helped by support from the European Central Bank.
economic growth and further Federal Reserve inspired capital As we would expect in such conditions, these macro concerns outflows.
Yet, valuations are attractive and the current have had a negative impact on short-term performance.
difficulties should encourage emerging market countries and corporates to press on with reform.
Asian equities There have been very strong net inflows of 5.9 billion for the Whilst the upfront fee for certain GEM funds has reduced flows year.
We have seen continued appetite for our broader Asia in the short term, we are confident that this will support the Pacific including Japan funds, as well as for funds investing in GEM team in the longer term and will allow future growth, single countries, such as China 1.3 billion of net flows and but at a more moderate rate than in recent years.
Japan 0.9 billion of net flows.
Away from emerging markets, international investors are Longer-term performance is good and has helped to drive the cautiously beginning to increase their allocations to Europe.
Our longer-term performance is very respectable and we have been rewarded with some modest wins and some early Global Emerging Market GEM equities indications of interest.
We expect these traits to pick up in the Inflows for the first 6 months were at higher rates than the next financial year.
team felt that they could comfortably continue to invest.
This had been a concern for some time.
Most importantly, we remain confident in the longer-term prospects for our companies.
We believe that investors will We have applied an upfront fee to moderate the flows, refocus on corporate fundamentals rather than the current wall reflecting the importance of maintaining the quality of of money being created from central banks printing presses.
With the turn in sentiment towards emerging markets, we have seen net outflows in the period since June.
com 31 Business review continued Fixed income and money market AuM Outflows were most prominent in our pan-European Total 2.6 billion, money market 1.8 billion, Australian Fixed Money fixed 0.8 billion, and global macro 0.5 billion strategies.
income market income Pan-European and global macro outflows have, to a large bn bn bn extent, been caused by historic underperformance.
As a result AuM at 30 September 2012 36.3 7.9 44.2 of team restructurings announced last year, performance has improved.
We believe that the majority of our money market Gross inflows 7.1 3.7 10.8 and Australian outflows are not performance-related, but reflect Gross outflows 10.7 5.5 16.2 asset allocation decisions of clients.
Net flows 3.6 1.8 5.4 However, we are also encouraged by areas of growth and we Market and see EMD and, increasingly, our high yield suite of strategies exchange movements 1.8 0.1 1.9 global, European and US as drivers of future growth.
In the last 12 months, EMD generated net inflows of around 1 billion, Artio acquisition 5.9 - 5.9 followed by high yield inflows of around 0.2 billion.
It is AuM at 30 September 2013 36.8 6.0 42.8 encouraging that all three high yield strategies have contributed to these inflows.
The team has been strengthened by the successful integration Key events of the two Artio teams total return bond and global high yield.
Our fixed income team has taken significant strides in 2013 in AuM retention has been ahead of expectations.
building a common investing culture that is better aligned to our equities business.
Outlook Our investment process for both macro and credit can now Despite the rise in volatility in many fixed income markets this be defined as consisting of three simple parts: research, summer, performance across the majority of our key strategies relative value and risk oversight.
To that end, we have devoted has remained stable or has improved.
We are confident that this significant resources to strengthening our macro and credit will continue next year.
research, implementing best practice across the investing We expect to see strong performance and growth from our EMD teams in the UK, US and Asia Pacific and building a common and high yield suite of products.
We believe that the steps taken risk framework.
to improve the process will strengthen the global macro and global credit desks.
Over the course of the year, we saw net outflows of 5.4 billion 2012: 6.8 billion.
32 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Property AuM We have completed a comprehensive revision of our product Direct property range over recent years.
bn Following consultation with investors, terms for the 500m AuM at 30 September 2012 16.7 European Balanced Property Fund have been updated and the Gross inflows 1.1 fund re-launched for international capital raising, supported by a strong performance track record.
We believe that this fund is Gross outflows 2.0 well placed in the market in terms of its governance and risk Net flows 0.9 profile, as well as pricing.
There is an encouraging level of Market and exchange movements 0.8 interest from international investors in this fund.
Acquisitions - We are building our residential fund offering with new funds in Germany and Sweden and will look to extend to other countries.
AuM at 30 September 2013 15.0 We have over 200 million of commitments.
The progressive wind-up of legacy German open-ended property Key events funds are proceeding on schedule, for completion in 2015.
These Property markets have been characterised by a focus on income, have led to the net outflows for the asset class in the period.
rather than still elusive capital growth, and risk aversion by Notwithstanding, it is pleasing that we have managed to replace most investors.
This search for yield has supported an appetite business lost from these funds with new mandates and funds, for property.
mitigating the financial impact of the loss of this business.
There is more interest in customised solutions and segregated Outlook mandates than pooled vehicles.
We believe that European property markets are picking up in northern and western Europe.
The US has been ahead of A 'flight to quality' has focused international capital flows on the Europe in the recovery phase.
Demand for the asset class appears to be increasing as it is seen We are seeing these trends in our pipeline of new business.
The types of products are changing and way of example, in recent months we have seen strong demand Aberdeen is well positioned to win new business, being able to from UK segregated clients for UK domestic investment through offer bespoke solutions with our extensive knowledge across a number of segregated mandates.
We have seen similar trends key markets and a stronger product range going forward.
in Nordic and Continental Europe.
In aggregate, we have added over 1 billion of committed funds.
It can take time for these commitments to fund but this will strengthen the quality of revenues in future years.
com 33 Business review continued Solutions AuM Following on from the successful launch of the Diversified Solutions Growth Fund in the UK last year, we have launched a similar bn fund in the Australian market, also aimed at pension schemes.
AuM at 30 September 2012 25.6 The AuM of the UK fund has grown to 100 million and is performing well enough to warrant broader coverage by the Gross inflows 3.0 investment consultant community.
We have launched a similar Gross outflows 5.7 fund in the US and are encouraged by early interest.
Net flows 2.7 The Aberdeen SVG teams manage over 5 billion and this deal Market and exchange movements 1.6 strengthens our fund of private equity offering by providing SVGs long-term track record and sufficient scale to attract Aberdeen SVG acquisition 4.3 interest across Aberdeens distribution network.
AuM at 30 September 2013 28.8 The property multi manager team, which now joins our solutions asset class, has established a new European fund of funds investing in attractively-priced units in third party Key events products available on the secondary market.
They have taken We have seen outflows from this area of our business in on some international advisory mandates, reflecting a trend recent years some 2.7 billion exited, leaving total AuM towards customised solutions for individual investors in this of 28.8 billion.
The European Secondaries Fund of Funds launched Our team has evolved through the combination of different with an initial 151 million 126 million to be invested.
products that have come into the Group through a variety of acquisitions.
Most of the losses in recent years have stemmed Outlook from money being withdrawn in the aftermath of some of There is a strong and growing demand for a range of multi asset these acquisitions.
and alternative solutions to meet a wide variety of client needs.
Meanwhile, many clients are also looking for a more outcomeRecognising this, we have reorganised the team around key oriented approach from their investment managers.
areas that can be used across the entire solutions portfolio.
We also expect that pan-alternative offerings, utilising the best These areas are supported by the 'Investment Office', which available managers across a range of alternative strategies, will work with portfolio management, providing input to will become a larger part of our overall solutions asset class.
decision making for investment strategy and portfolio construction across all solutions portfolios.
Following the revisions in the division structure, solutions is well placed in a market with strong and growing demand for a range Our review of product capabilities by market has shown that of alternative products from a wide variety of clients.
we need to be more targeted in areas in the solutions suite which meet current client needs and concentrate on promoting these products.
The fund of hedge funds performance has remained strong during the year.
Unfortunately, investor sentiment and some strategic changes at our largest investors have resulted in continuing net outflows in the year.
We have rationalised and streamlined our offerings and distribution efforts and we are starting to see most of the future interest outside of the UK.
34 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Regional review Regional growth strategies We recognise the importance of performing detailed analysis across geographies, channels, asset classes and products to identify growth opportunities where Aberdeen can capture a disproportionate share, and invest appropriately behind them.
We have identified and prioritised a number of capabilities to be actively promoted in our various geographies.
This is supported by better and more efficient coordination between marketing, product development, client management and business development to optimise our client servicing and sales efforts.
The various marketing campaigns we have done on prioritised products and following the brand refresh have been well received by the market.
Americas Canada continues to move from strength to strength and AuM Americas from Canadian clients is now 2.4 billion.
bn Latin America is one of the fastest-growing and most profitable AuM at 30 September 2012 32.4 regions in the global asset management industry.
We service not Gross inflows 9.9 only Brazil, where we have an office in So Paolo, but also other Gross outflows 6.2 South American markets.
Net flows 3.7 We are the largest fund provider to the Chilean, and second largest to the Colombian and Peruvian pension fund markets.
Market and exchange movements 3.9 Outlook Artio acquisition 6.7 We believe that we are well placed for future growth given our AuM at 30 September 2013 46.7 stronger distribution network and enhanced relationships.
With good wins in EMD towards the end of the year, we believe that we can be more successful with this product as we seek to Net flows continue to expand our capabilities.
Key events We are also looking forward to entering the Brazilian fund There has been a step change in distribution activities in our market with an initially modest product range in 2014, wealth management channel which has benefitted from building on our established investment management presence, investment in recent years.
Our team across 9 regional centres and the fact that we are one of the bigger investment players focuses on the major wirehouse distribution platforms, regional in the country on the back of our global emerging market distributors and registered investment advisors.
The Artio transaction added two large highly rated funds Brazil is by far the largest Latin American market half of all around 3 billion combined: Morningstar 4 star rated.
assets are currently invested in simple money market and The fixed income asset class had been relatively poorly fixed income funds.
represented in our US mutual fund range to date.
Our aim there is to build our presence and name awareness in The US mutual fund range is now 14 billion 2012: 8 billion.
anticipation of the point when the market starts to invest more Our brand refresh came at an opportune time for the US internationally, as it inevitably will in time.
business, delivering high profile awareness at a time when we were highlighting the benefits of the Artio integration and taking our wider product set to the market.
com 35 Business review continued Europe, Middle East and Africa As we anticipated, some of the fund platforms were not able Middle to cope with the upfront charge on GEM.
Europe East and Total UK ex.
UK Africa EMEA Over the last year we have launched various products to match bn bn bn bn client demand, such as World Government Bonds, Frontier Bonds, Brazil Equity, Brazil Bonds and a number of property AuM at 30 products.
Our offering has also expanded following the Artio September 2012 54.7 62.2 15.0 131.9 acquisition global high yield and the Aberdeen SVG deal, Gross inflows 8.4 17.4 0.5 26.3 with a fund of private equity product range.
Gross outflows 13.9 17.4 2.1 33.4 The Retail Distribution Review RDR is now implemented in Net flows 5.5 1.6 7.1 the UK.
Aberdeen has addressed this by launching rebate free share classes in our Luxembourg and UK fund ranges.
Market and exchange To date, RDR has not had a meaningful impact on our revenues.
movements 5.6 8.7 1.2 1.9 While the true impact is yet to be felt, we believe that our existing revenues should be relatively resilient as they are Acquisitions 4.3 4.3 in areas that we excel in i. e. GEM and Asian equities.
AuM at 30 Our margins on future new business may decline in the UK retail September 2013 59.1 53.5 14.6 127.2 space - and those areas of the continent which are going down a similar route such as the Netherlands and Switzerland - in part owing to RDR, although a change in product mix would be the Key events main driver.
We have selectively added headcount across various business development teams in Europe.
This strengthens local client Outlook coverage by locally based staff.
For the foreseeable future The brand refresh has proven successful and our efforts to we have optimal coverage of our Continental European broaden our brand recognition continue.
and Nordic client base with 14 offices in 13 countries and Building on the success of our brand campaign across Europe, a highly motivated staff.
the Madrid office launch has spurred on a supporting campaign Our target markets in the region are UK retail and Germany.
Our most successful products in the region were Asia Pacific We believe that we are well placed to build on our product range equities and EMD.
and the pipeline of new products is generating strong interest.
Despite strong gross sales, outflows reduced net sales to negative 7.1 billion.
The closure of the GEM equity funds began to take effect in the final part of the year and we continued to experience some outflows from a small number of large multi manager and UK fixed income clients.
14 We have 14 offices across 13 countries in Continental Europe and the Nordics to support our client base locally.
36 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Asia Pacific Singapore attracted some core insurance funds as well as private Asia Pacific bank money and Hong Kongs sales profile was similar.
Thailand bn had some strong fund launches, helped by positive local market AuM at 30 September 2012 22.9 sentiment: while Taiwan, a high turnover market, saw early sales in high yield bonds reverse as markets sold off on the Gross inflows 7.7 tapering scare.
Gross outflows 6.8 In Malaysia we launched two Sharia-compliant funds, a low-key Net flows 0.9 retail initiative in a market where previously we have only sold Market and exchange movements 2.7 to institutions and our main constraint is global capacity.
Acquisitions We have continued to add resources around the region to support demand, with 200 staff in Singapore and 440 AuM at 30 September 2013 26.5 altogether.
We restructured our Asian credit team and have combined our fixed income and equity dealing.
We have hopes for our Asian fixed income team which has avoided the worst of Key events recent currency turmoil.
We have faced only modest redemptions because of the downturn in markets in Southeast Asia and India.
The bulk Outlook of our business is institutional and long-term.
Indeed, we won Sentiment toward the region remains changeable.
Valuations mandates from high profile Chinese, Japanese and Hong Kong today are not especially cheap for any asset class and some clients for regional equity, China and global strategies.
economies have tripped up on reforms and run into deficits.
As for retail flows, our strategy has been to promote more But we are far from pessimistic: Asian economies are better non-Asian products in the region.
That said, of the 0.9 billion managed and the influence of pragmatic central banks is net that we raised across markets, the majority went into greater than before.
regional and emerging market equities.
