7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 7 Directors Report The information presented by the Directors in this Directors Report between the Group and its suppliers and clients, or would otherwise relates to BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and their subsidiaries.
The categories of information The Chairmans Review in section 1.3, Chief Executive Officers Report omitted include forward looking estimates and projections prepared in section 1.4 and section 1 Key information, section 2 Information for internal management purposes, information regarding the Groups on the Company, section 3 Operating and financial review and assets and projects, which is embryonic and susceptible to change, prospects, section 4 Board of Directors and Group Management and information relating to commercial contracts or pricing modules.
Committee, section 5 Corporate Governance Statement, section 6 Our principal activities during FY2013 were exploration, development, Remuneration Report, section 9 Financial Statements production and processing of minerals in respect of iron ore, and section 11 Shareholder information of this Annual Report metallurgical and energy coal, copper, aluminium, manganese, are each incorporated by reference into, and form part of, uranium, nickel, silver and potash, and exploration, development this Directors Report.
and production of conventional and unconventional oil and gas.
During FY2013, we completed the sale of our diamonds and titanium 7.1 Principal activities, state of affairs minerals businesses.
Further information in relation to these sales is provided in sections 2.2.
6, 3 and 5 of this Annual Report.
Other and business review than these developments, no significant changes in the nature The UK Companies Act 2006 requires this Directors Report to of the Groups principal activities occurred during FY2013.
include a fair review of the business of the Group during FY2013 Information in relation to significant changes in the state of affairs and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year of the Group that occurred during FY2013 and significant post-balance and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing date events is set out in sections 2.2, 3 and 5.3 of this Annual Report.
the Group known as the business review.
In addition to the information set out below, the information that fulfils the requirements No other matter or circumstance has arisen since the end of FY2013 of the business review can be found in the following sections that has significantly affected or is expected to significantly affect of this Annual Report which are each incorporated by reference the operations, the results of operations or state of affairs of the into this Directors Report : Group in future years.
Section Reference 7.2 Share capital and buy-back programs Key measures 1.6 and 3.3 At the Annual General Meetings held in 2012, shareholders Risk factors 1.7.
1 and 5.14 authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up Business overview 2.2 to 213,618,545 of its ordinary shares, representing approximately Sustainability 2.8 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued share capital at that time.
Employees 2.9 During FY2013, we did not make any on-market or off-market purchases of BHP Billiton Limited shares or BHP Billiton Plc shares Operating and financial review and prospects 3 under any share buy-back program.
Shareholders will be asked at the 2013 Annual General Meetings A review of the operations of the Group during FY2013, the results to renew this authority.
The Directors have no present intention of those operations during FY2013 and the expected results of those to exercise this authority, if granted.
operations in future financial years, are set out in sections 1.3, 1.4, 2.2 and 3 and other material in this Annual Report.
Information Some of our executives receive options over BHP Billiton shares on the development of the Group and likely developments in future as part of their remuneration arrangements.
Entitlements may years also appear in those sections of this Annual Report.
We have be satisfied by the transfer of existing shares, which are acquired excluded certain information from the Operating and financial review on-market, or in respect of some entitlements, by the issue and prospects in section 3 which forms part of this Directors Report of new shares.
on the basis that including the information would cause unreasonable prejudice to the Group because such disclosure could be misleading due to the premature nature of the information, relates to commercially sensitive contracts, would undermine confidentiality BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 187 7 Directors Report continued 7.2 Share capital and buy-back programs continued The shares in column A below were purchased to satisfy awards made under the various BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc employee share schemes during FY2013.
2 BHP Billiton Limited is able to buy-back and cancel BHP Billiton Limited shares within the 10 12 limit without shareholder approval in accordance with section 257B of the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Any future on-market share buy-back program will be conducted in accordance with the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and with the ASX Listing Rules.
3 At the Annual General Meetings held during 2011, shareholders authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up to 213,618,545 of its ordinary shares, representing approximately 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued capital at the time.
4 At the Annual General Meetings held during 2012, shareholders authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up to 213,618,545 of its ordinary shares, representing approximately 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued capital at the time.
Mr Mackenzie was appointed as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited 7.3 Results, financial instruments and going concern and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 10 May 2013, and in accordance Information about our financial position and financial results with the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles is included in the financial statements in this Annual Report.
of Association of BHP Billiton Plc, Mr Mackenzie will seek election The income statement shows profit attributable to BHP Billiton at the 2013 Annual General Meetings.
Mr Kloppers retired as a members of US$10.9 billion compared with US$15.4 billion Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on 10 May 2013. in FY2012.
The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely during the year and each Directors attendance at those meetings to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in section 5.11 of this Annual Report.
are discussed in section 3 of this Annual Report.
In addition, sections 1.5, 1.7 and 5.14 and note 29 Financial risk management 7.5 Remuneration and share interests to the financial statements detail the Groups capital management objectives, its approach to financial risk management and exposure 7.5.
1 Remuneration to financial risks, liquidity and borrowing facilities.
The policy for determining the nature and amount of emoluments The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a of members of the Group Management Committee GMC including reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources the Executive Director and the Non-executive Directors and to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
information about the relationship between that policy and our Therefore they continue to adopt the going-concern basis performance are set out in sections 6.2.
4 of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The remuneration tables contained in sections 6.3 and 6.4 of this 7.4 Directors Annual Report set out the remuneration of members of the GMC including the Executive Director and the Non-executive Directors.
The Directors who served at any time during or since the end of the financial year are Jac Nasser, Andrew Mackenzie, 7.5.
2 Directors Marius Kloppers, Malcolm Broomhead, John Buchanan, The table contained in section 7.19 of this Directors Report sets Carlos Cordeiro, David Crawford, Pat Davies, Carolyn Hewson, out the relevant interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited and Lindsay Maxsted, Wayne Murdy, Keith Rumble, John Schubert and BHP Billiton Plc of the Directors who held office during FY2013, Shriti Vadera.
Further details of the Directors of BHP Billiton Limited at the beginning and end of FY2013, and in relation to all Directors and BHP Billiton Plc are set out in section 4.1 of this Annual Report.
in office as at the date of this Directors Report, their relevant These details include the period for which each Director held interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc office up to the date of this Directors Report, their qualifications, as at the date of this Directors Report.
No rights or options over experience and particular responsibilities, the directorships held shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are held by in other listed companies since 1 July 2010, and the period for which any of the Non-executive Directors.
Interests held by the Executive each directorship has been held.
Director under share and option plans as at 30 June 2013 are set out in the tables showing interests in incentive plans contained in section 6.4 and note 31 Key Management Personnel to the financial statements.
188 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information for all liabilities KPMG has to the Group or any third party as 7.5.
2 Directors continued a result of reliance on information provided by the Group that We have not made available to any Director any interest is false, misleading or incomplete.
We have insured against amounts that we may be liable to pay The former Directors of BHP Limited participated in a retirement to Directors, Company Secretaries or certain employees pursuant to plan under which they were entitled to receive a payment on Rule 146 of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and Article 146 retirement calculated by reference to years of service.
This plan of the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc or that we otherwise was closed on 24 October 2003, and benefits accrued to that agree to pay by way of indemnity.
The insurance policy also insures date are held by BHP Billiton Limited and will be paid on retirement.
Directors, Company Secretaries and some employees against certain Further information about this plan and its closure are set out liabilities including legal costs they may incur in carrying out their in section 6.4.
3 GMC members We have paid premiums for this Directors and Officers insurance The table contained in section 7.20 of this Directors Report of US$2,124,852 net during FY2013.
Directors, Company Secretaries sets out the relevant interests held by those senior executives and employees insured under the policy contribute to the premium who were members of the GMC other than the Executive Director for this insurance.
during FY2013 in shares of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc at the beginning and end of FY2013, and at the date of this Directors No indemnity in favour of a current or former officer of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc, or in favour of the Report.
Interests held by members of the GMC under share and option plans as at 30 June 2013 are set out in the tables showing External Auditor, has been called on during FY2013.
interests in incentive plans contained in section 6.4 and note 31 Key Management Personnel to the financial statements.
7.8 Employee policies and involvement We are committed to open, honest and productive relationships 7.6 Secretaries with our employees.
At BHP Billiton, we recognise the most important ingredient for success is our talented and motivated Jane McAloon is the Group Company Secretary.
Details of workforce, whose members demonstrate behaviours that are her qualifications and experience are set out in sections 4.1 aligned to Our BHP Billiton Charter values.
and 4.2 of this Annual Report.
The following people also act as the Company Secretaries of either BHP Billiton Limited or We have an integrated people strategy to effectively attract, BHP Billiton Plc: Nicola Kleynhans, BBus, Deputy Company retain and develop talented people.
Our approach is outlined in Secretary, BHP Billiton Limited, and Nicole Duncan BA Hons, LLB, Our Charter, the BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct and the Company Secretary, BHP Billiton Limited, and Geof Stapledon, BEc, Group Level Documents GLDs that prescribe what we will do LLB Hons, DPhil, FCIS, Deputy Company Secretary, BHP Billiton Plc, and how we will do it.
All of these documents are published and and Elizabeth Hobley, BA Hons, ACIS, Deputy Company Secretary, accessible to employees.
Each such individual has experience in a company Effective communication and employee engagement is critical secretariat role or other relevant fields arising from time spent for maintaining open and productive relationships between leaders in such roles within BHP Billiton, large listed companies or other and employees.
Employees receive communication on BHP Billiton relevant entities.
goals and performance, as well as on other important issues such as health and safety and the environment and the Code of Business 7.7 Indemnities and insurance Conduct.
Our Code of Business Conduct is founded on Our Charter values, which make an unqualified commitment to working with Rule 146 of the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Article 146 integrity.
Communication is undertaken through a variety of channels, of the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association require each Company including the internet, intranet, email, newsletters and other means to indemnify to the extent permitted by law, each Director, Secretary designed to cater for the local environment.
These tools are also or Executive Officer of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc used to facilitate employee feedback, as are a variety of consultative respectively against liability incurred in, or arising out of, the conduct processes.
Dispute and grievance handling processes are also of the business of the Company or the discharge of the duties of in place to assist in equitably addressing workplace issues in all the Director, Secretary and Executive Officer.
A Business Conduct Advisory Service operates worldwide in section 4.1 of this Annual Report, the Executive Officers and the to allow concerns to be raised about conduct that is out of step Company Secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have with Our Charter values, our policies and procedures or the law.
the benefit of this requirement, as do individuals who formerly held one of those positions.
Our all-employee share purchase plan, Shareplus, is available to all permanent full-time and part-time employees, and those on In accordance with this requirement, BHP Billiton Limited and fixed-term contracts, except where local regulations limit operation BHP Billiton Plc have entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Access and of the scheme.
In these instances, alternative arrangements are Insurance Deeds of Indemnity with each of their respective Directors.
As at 30 June 2013, 24,746 employees, or approximately The Deeds of Indemnity are qualifying third party indemnity provisions 50.1 per cent of those eligible for the April 2013 offer, were for the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006. participants in Shareplus.
The Shareplus employee plan is described We have a policy that we will, as a general rule, support and in section 6.3.
Short-term and long-term hold harmless an employee, including an employee appointed incentive schemes also operate across the Group.
Rewards for as a Director of a subsidiary who, while acting in good faith, eligible individuals are predicated on the need to meet targets incurs personal liability to others as a result of working for us.
relating to the Groups performance in areas such as health, safety and achievement of financial measures and on the personal From time to time, we engage our External Auditor, KPMG, to conduct performance of each employee.
non-statutory audit work and provide other services in accordance with our policy on the provision of other services by the External Our performance management process aligns individual Auditor.
The terms of engagement typically include an indemnity performance and behaviour to Our Charter and our strategic and in favour of KPMG: operational priorities, as well as working to ensure that individual against all losses, claims, costs, expenses, actions, demands, and team performance is recognised.
Our leaders are accountable damages, liabilities or any proceedings liabilities incurred for providing constructive feedback and identifying development by KPMG in respect of third party claims arising from a breach needs to help our employees maximise their performance and by the Group under the engagement terms: realise their full potential.
In FY2013, 68 per cent of employees participated in a formal performance review process.
Due to industrial agreements, not all employees are able to participate BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 189
