Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report together FILS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY, STYLE AND with the audited financial statements of the Company for the PROCESS year ended 31 March 2013.
The Board has appointed FIL as Investment Managers.
The Company was incorporated in England and Wales on FILs distinctive investment approach is bottom up stock picking 22January 2010 under the registered number 7133583 and investing in companies on the basis of their underlying re-registered as a public limited company on 24 February 2010. strengths, facilitated by extensive research capabilities.
BUSINESS AND STATUS FIL has had a presence in Asia since 1969 and now has o ces The Company carries on business as an investment trust in seven countries across the region, including in three cities in company and has been granted approval as such by HM mainland China and in Hong Kong.
Revenue & Customs under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Directors are of the opinion that The Hong Kong o ce is FILs second largest in the region, with the Company has conducted its a airs in a manner which will approximately 40 investment professionals, including analysts satisfy the conditions for continued approval as an investment and portfolio managers.
Globally, FIL has over 7,000 investment trust company under that Act.
The Company is registered as an investment company under The analysts in the Hong Kong investment team evaluate Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as such.
companies, meet their managements and interpret the e ects It is not a close company and has no employees.
of international and local events.
They contact many companies every week.
DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs INTRODUCTION Given the Companys objective and strategy, the Board has The Company is required to present a Business Review, which identi ed the following KPIs against which performance can provides a fair review of the Company and a description of the be measured.
principal risks and uncertainties faced.
It includes an analysis of the performance of the Company, both during the financial year Year ended Year ended and the position at the year end, taking into account its objective, 31 March 31 March strategy and risks and how these are measured using Key 2013 2012 Performance Indicators.
% % Net Asset Value total return 15.7 -18.5 OBJECTIVE AND STRATEGY The primary objective of the Company is to enhance shareholder Share price total return 15.0 -26.4 value, through long-term capital growth.
The Company aims to MSCI China Index total return 12.2 -12.5 achieve this with an actively managed portfolio of investments, made up primarily of securities issued by companies listed in Discount to Net Asset Value 5.2 4.6 China or Hong Kong and China related companies listed Ongoing charges 1.
As part of the strategy the Board has delegated the management of the investment portfolio and certain other services to FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited and PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES AND RISK FIL Investments International.
The Investment Managers aim to MANAGEMENT achieve a capital return on the Companys total assets over the The Board con rms that there is an ongoing process for longer term in excess of the equivalent return on the MSCI China identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced Index, as expressed in UK sterling.
ACTIVITY The process is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance The Companys activity is to pursue the above objective through with the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Internal Control: operating as an investment company.
A review of the years Revised Guidance for Directors.
activities and an indication of likely future developments and the factors likely to a ect this are given in the Chairmans Statement The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal on pages 3 and 4 and in the Managers Report on pages 5 control and for reviewing its e ectiveness.
The Board supports these views.
report providing an assessment of risks, together with controls to mitigate these risks, is prepared by the Manager and considered by the Audit Committee.
The Board also determines the nature and extent of any risks it is willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 17 Directors Report The Board considers the following as the major risks facing the Company: Top Risks Risk Mitigation Risks related to the PRC Investing in an emerging market such as the PRC subjects the Company to a higher level of market risk than investment in a more developed market.
This is due, among other things, to the existence of greater market volatility, lower trading volumes, the risk of political and economic instability, legal and regulatory risks, risks relating to accounting practices, disclosure and settlement, a greater risk of market shut down, standards of corporate governance and more governmental limitations on foreign investment than are typically found in developed markets.
The Board reviews material economic, market and legislative changes at each Board meeting.
Performance risk The achievement of the Companys performance objective relative to the market requires the taking of risk, such as strategy, asset allocation and stock selection, and may lead to underperformance of the Benchmark Index.
Management of the risks set is carried out by the Board.
The Company has a clearly fide ned strategy and investment remit.
There is a clearly fide ned management agreement, and borrowing derivative limits are also set by the Board.
The portfolio is managed by a highly experienced Portfolio Manager.
The Board relies on the Portfolio Managers skills and judgement to make investment decisions based on research and analysis of individual stocks and sectors.
The Board reviews the performance of the portfolio against the Companys Benchmark Index and that of its competitors and the outlook for the market with the Portfolio Manager at each Board meeting.
The emphasis is on long-term investment performance and the Board accepts that by targeting long-term results the Company risks volatility in the shorter term.
Unlisted investments are managed by FIL Investments International.
Performance improved in the 2012 13 financial year as outlined in the Managers report on page 5.
Key person risk Anthony Bolton will manage the portfolio until the Companys next year end, 31March 2014.
Dale Nicholls will succeed Mr Bolton on this date and will work closely with him from the latter part of 2013 to ensure an orderly handover in 2014.
Other risks facing the Company include: structures.
These are entities where there is a controlling interest that is not based on the majority of voting rights which may result Market risk in increased corporate governance risks.
The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities in China and Hong Kong and the principal risks are therefore market Share price risk related such as market down turn, interest rate movements and The price of the Companys shares, as well as its discount or exchange rate movements.
The Portfolio Managers success or premium to NAV, are factors which are not within the Companys failure to protect and increase the Companys assets against this total control.
Some short-term in uence over the discount or background are core to the Companys continued success.
premium may be exercised by the use of share repurchases or share issues at acceptable prices.
Details of share repurchases Risks to which the Company is exposed and which form part of during the year are given on page 2 0.
The Companys share the market risks category are included in Note 18 to the Financial price, NAV and discount volatility are monitored daily by the Statements on pages 46 to 5 3 together with summaries of the Managers and by the Board.
policies for managing these risks.
These are: market price risk comprising other price risk, interest rate risk and foreign Gearing risk currency risk : liquidity risk: counterparty risk: credit risk: and The Company has the option to invest up to the total of any loan derivative instruments risk.
facilities or to use Contracts For Di erence CFDs to invest in equities.
The principal risk is that while in a rising market the Corporate governance risks Company will bene t from gearing, in a falling market the impact The Manager employs a number of external research providers would be detrimental.
Other risks are that the cost of gearing and due diligence rms to mitigate investment research risks in may be too high or that the term of the gearing inappropriate in the PRC.
The Company has exposure to a number of companies relation to market conditions.
On 17 February 2012, the Company with all or part of their business in Variable Interest Entity VIE entered into a revolving credit facility agreement with Scotiabank Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 18
