Business review ICAP in brief Efficient financial markets are vital Our role in to global and national economies.
As a leading markets operator ICAP the markets provides a wide variety of electronic execution, risk mitigation, messaging, broking and information services for wholesale market participants.
ICAP facilitates the ow of capital and investment through the financial system and supports government and corporate borrowing.
Our business segments Global Electronic Post Trade Risk Broking Markets and Information Market participants can use ICAPs broking Markets that are more liquid and have a Our post trade risk and information services to assess trading availability and high degree of consistent buying and selling services help users of financial products to successfully execute trades.
Our brokers interest are most efficiently traded on reduce operational and system-wide risks.
locate and identify potential trading interest electronic platforms.
Automated platforms This increases the efficiency of trading, and in so doing create transparency, liquidity allow users to execute large volumes of clearing and settlement and lowers costs.
and facilitate the price discovery process.
deals quickly and easily, with greater Our information business empowers This is particularly important in markets transparency.
We operate a number of customers to make trading decisions where there is a wide range of potential electronic platforms in a range of asset with market information across key transaction types and the number of parties classes and instruments.
The largest of asset classes.
willing to enter certain transactions at any these are the EBS Market for spot FX The post trade risk and information moment may be limited.
currencies, NDFs and precious metals and business comprises: the BrokerTec platform for G7 public debt We offer broking services for a wide range securities, including US and European the portfolio risk services businesses, of asset classes including rates, FX, government debt and US and EU repo Reset, ReMatch and TriOptima, which commodities, emerging markets, credit and and CDS.
identify, remove, neutralise and reconcile equities.
For each of these asset classes, risk within portfolios of derivatives ICAP has electronic capability which gives In addition we also operate a number of transactions: customers the choice to enter prices and other platforms including MyTreasury, which the transaction processing business, execute trades electronically, directly via is ICAPs fully automated electronic trading one of ICAPs electronic trading systems, platform for corporate treasury investors, Traiana: and and or to engage with a broker to identify and ISDX, an exchange providing small the information and data sales business.
and medium-sized companies access to More than 500 customers use our post equity capital to finance the development Customers range from investment banks of their businesses.
in our xed income products to end-user corporates and industrials in commodities.
ICAP plc 02 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Our scale and diversity Two thirds of our operating profit comes from our electronic markets and post trade risk and information services Revenue by business Revenue by bank non-bank 14% m 21% Global Broking 997 Bank execution Electronic Markets 268 Subscription 18% Post Trade Risk and Information 207 Non-bank execution 12% Total 1,472 68% 67% Operating profit by business Revenue by type 12% m Global Broking 105 Transaction 29% 34% Electronic Markets 113 Subscription Post Trade Risk and Information 90 Total 308 Before acquisition and disposal costs 88% and exceptional items.
37% Daily trading volume transacted by Reducing risk our customers through our systems Since its launch in 2003 TriOptima has terminated more than $338 trillion in total notional volume.
3 trillion Average daily number of transactions processed by Traianas Harmony network increased by 37% to 1.4 million.
Our geographic reach We have a strong presence in all the major financial centres with a local footprint in 32 countries and more than 70 locations worldwide ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 03
