Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review Review of our business Products and Services INTRODUCTION Television Overview of the business The Sky Channels and Sky Distributed Channels: For our TV Customers, Sky is the UKs leading entertainment and communications provider.
we group the Sky Distributed Channels other than the Premium Sky We operate the most comprehensive multichannel, multi-platform pay Distributed Channels and the Sky Basic Channels into three packs: television service in the UK and Ireland.
We have led the UK into the Entertainment, Entertainment Extra and Entertainment Extra The age of HDTV and launched Europes first 3DTV channel, Sky 3D.
We give Entertainment pack is available for 21.50 per month and includes our customers greater access, control and choice while at home and on popular entertainment channels such as Sky 1, Sky Atlantic, Sky.
the move with our Sky, On Demand and Sky Go services.
NOW TV, Living, Comedy Central, Watch, Gold, Alibi and Fox.
Entertainment Skys second consumer brand, gives customers another flexible way to Extra is available for 27 per month and includes all the channels access Skys content.
Sky is the UKs fastest growing home from our Entertainment pack plus additional channels including communications company and this year, we achieved another product Discovery, Disney and National Geographic.
Entertainment Extra is milestone with the launch of a communications service to complete available for 32 per month and includes all the channels from our our triple play offering in Ireland.
Entertainment Extra pack plus 48 of these channels in HD and access to TV box-sets with On Demand.
Customers also have the At 30 June 2013, we had over 11.2 million customers in the UK and option to add a combination of Premium Sports and Movies Ireland taking a total of 31.6 million products.
We are the UKs Channels to their package.
In total, the Sky TV service currently largest triple play provider with 35% of our customers choosing to offers access to 165 pay television channels 134 Sky Distributed take each of TV, broadband and telephony.
Channels and 31 Sky Channels and in addition all customers can Our consistent approach is delivering strong financial results.
For the receive more than 300 free-to-air television and radio channels and year ended 30 June 2013, revenue growth of 7% combined with our services.
Our agreements with the owners of the Sky Distributed continued focus on operating efficiency, delivered adjusted operating Channels typically grant us the exclusive right to offer these profit growth of 9% to reach a record 1,330 million and we surpassed channels to residential DTH customers in the UK and Ireland.
1 billion of free cash flow for the first time.
We continued our strong Sky : TV Customers can use Sky to record two programmes track record for shareholder returns with 18% growth in the full year simultaneously whilst they are watching another programme dividend of 30.0p, our ninth consecutive year of growth.
TV Customers can also use Sky to pause and we have returned 624 million to shareholders throughout the year rewind live TV and record entire series at the touch of a button with via our share buy-back programme.
Since October 2012, if a recording is accidentally deleted, it can now be undeleted.
The Sky app on This review of the business sets out the Groups main activities which mobiles and tablets allows TV customers to view the TV Guide and are summarised as follows: On Demand catalogue, view recommendations, record programmes Our customers our products and services and set up a Series Link whilst on the move.
When in the home, TV Our content our channel offering Customers can use the Sky app to browse their planner and use it Our adjacent businesses Sky Media: Wholesale Distribution: Sky as a remote control for their Sky HD box.
Betting and Gaming and Sky Vision Sky HD: We operate an HD service which consists of over 60 HD Infrastructure and technology satellites: playout and uplink channels offering a range of content across all key genres.
This year facilities: digital satellite reception equipment: encryption and we have introduced greater flexibility as to the means by which security and communications infrastructure customers can access our HD service.
48 basic HD channels including Sky 1 HD, Sky Living HD, Sky Atlantic HD, Sky Arts 1 and 2 HD Certain terms used herein are defined in the Glossary of terms which and Sky News HD and eight free-to-air channels are now available appears at the end of this Annual Report.
within our new TV pack, Entertainment Extra.
Customers then have The Company, a public company limited by shares and domiciled in the the option to add an HD Pack on top of this for Premium HD UK, operates under the laws of England and Wales.
It was channels in line with their TV package including five Sky Sports incorporated in the UK on 25 April 1988.
Our principal executive offices channels and 11 Sky Movies channels.
are located at Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex TW7 5QD, England.
A Sky Multiroom: We also offer our DTH customers a multiroom list of our significant investments is set out in note 31 to the subscription, allowing customers to watch Sky TV in different rooms consolidated financial statements.
at the same time by purchasing additional set-top boxes.
On Demand: Skys On Demand service offers a wide selection of OUR CUSTOmERS content from across the Sky platform, including content from the Sky Channels, the Sky Distributed Channels and free-to-air Overview of our retail business broadcasters including BBC iPlayer for customers to watch We retail subscription TV and communications services to residential whenever they want.
Our full On Demand service includes IP and commercial premises in the UK and Ireland.
Our customers enjoy delivered video on demand and is available to homes that have an an unrivalled choice of high quality content.
We own and broadcast active broadband connection.
Once their box is connected to their the Sky Channels which we retail together with the Sky Distributed broadband connection, relevant TV Customers have a regularly Channels to our TV customers and since July 2012 we have offered updated library of on demand TV, including the UKs biggest catch simple and commitment free access to an internet TV service in the up TV service with the widest range of catch up channels, as well as UK, NOW TV.
We keep our customers connected with great value access to over 800 movies and TV box sets including iconic series broadband and telephony products in the home via DSL and fibre, and from HBO.
away from the home with Sky WiFi.
10 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Business review Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review Sky Go: The service is available at no extra cost to DTH customers, majority of our broadband customers choose the unlimited allowing them to watch up to 49 live channels and on demand product.
We also offer two differentiated fibre broadband products to customers in the UK.
Sky Fibre Unlimited gives customers content including all six Sky Sports channels, Sky Movies, Sky 1, Sky Living, Sky Arts and Sky Atlantic.
Customers can also watch download speeds of up to 38 Mbps and Sky Fibre Unlimited Pro programmes from a range of Sky Distributed Channels and On offers speeds of up to 76 Mbps.
Neither product has usage caps Demand content live and on demand including childrens content imposed.
The fibre products are wholesaled from BT Openreach and are therefore available to Sky customers who reside within the from Disney, Nickelodeon and Turner and entertainment content from Fox, Syfy, Universal and Star Plus.
Content from Channel 4 and coverage area of BTs fibre network.
Sky broadband customers in 4oD is also available for customers to watch.
Sky Go is available on the UK except Sky Broadband Lite customers can also enjoy laptops, mobiles, tablets and Xbox 360.
Each Sky home is entitled unlimited Sky WiFi in over 20,000 hotspots across the UK, all included as part of their monthly broadband subscription.
This to register for the service on up to two compatible devices.
Sky Go Extra: In January 2013, we launched our new subscription gives customers the opportunity to enjoy unlimited, free wireless service, Sky Go Extra.
The service, which costs 5 a month, allows access across the high street and other locations where people DTH customers to download selected content included with their want to get online.
Consumers do not need to be Sky TV customers to enjoy Skys great value broadband: each of our products except TV package to watch when and where they want, without the need for a WiFi or 3G 4G connection.
Customers can also register for Sky Sky Broadband Lite is also available on a standalone basis.
Go on four, rather than two, internet-connected devices.
From July, In February 2013, we launched Sky Broadband in Ireland.
We Sky Go Extra is available to Sky Multiroom customers at no extra white-label BT Irelands products to offer Irish customers two copper-based DSL products, Sky Broadband Lite and Sky cost.
Sky Box Office: Our Sky Box Office service currently offers our DTH Broadband Unlimited.
Both products offer customers download customers television premieres of movies and occasional live sports speeds of up to 24 Mbps depending on the customers location.
entertainment events on a pay-per-view basis.
Sky Talk: Sky Talk is a telephony service including landline available to homes in the UK and Ireland and has over 4.5 million customers.
Sky Store: Sky Store is our movies rentals service, giving customers a choice of over 1,000 movies including new releases just out on DVD Sky Talk is available to customers who do not take a television and a whole library of favourites, all available to rent instantly and service.
In the UK, Sky Talk Weekends with Sky Line Rental offers customers inclusive weekend calls of up to one hour to UK landlines NOW TV: Our internet TV service giving customers in the UK an easy and commitment-free way to access some of the best Sky content and Sky Talk Unlimited with Sky Line Rental offers customers is available across a wide range of internet-connected devices.
unlimited calls for up to one hour per call to UK landlines and 22 Movie fans can get a Sky Movies Pass for 15 a month, offering international destinations.
In Ireland, Sky Talk Freetime offers customers inclusive evening and weekend calls of up to one hour to completely unlimited access to hundreds of films.
Sports fans can get a Sports Day Pass for 9.99 for 24 hours of unlimited access to landlines in Ireland and Sky Talk Anytime offers customers inclusive all six Sky Sports channels.
calls of up to one hour to landlines in Ireland and 20 international destinations.
Home communications Sky WiFi: We have continued to grow our WiFi footprint across the Sky Broadband: At 30 June 2013, Sky had over 4.9 million broadband UK and now have over 20,000 high bandwidth, public access customers.
Since our launch in 2006 we have consistently been the hotspots.
The quality of our hotspots in popular locations where fastest growing provider of broadband and home telephony people dwell provides valued, seamless internet access free of services, and our recent acquisition of O2s consumer broadband charge to Sky Broadband Unlimited, Sky Connect, Sky Fibre and fixed-line telephony business has helped to cement our Unlimited and Sky Fibre Unlimited Pro customers.
The service position as the second largest operator in the UK.
As well as provides flexibility and convenience and proves particularly valuable significant savings, customers are switching to Sky for improved for customers who access Sky content on the go.
customer service, a better product experience and more flexibility.
Having a state of the art, all fibre, core network means we can give Sky Business our customers a highly reliable service without reducing speeds at We offer a number of our services, including our HD service, to peak-times or imposing fair use policies on uncapped products.
Our commercial TV customers in the UK and Ireland under a range of network covers almost 88% of UK households and allows us to offer contracts.
The types of contract, and the channels which are available customers a choice of high quality and great value broadband to any particular commercial customer, depend primarily upon the services.
Sky Broadband Connect is a white labelled service offered type of business premises within which such customers wish to show to customers in the UK who are not within the coverage area of our our services.
Our commercial TV customers include offices, retail network.
It allows us to provide customers with a Sky-branded outlets, hotels, pubs and clubs.
We also offer WiFi services to broadband service and give them access to Skys leading customer commercial customers.
service infrastructure even though our network does not extend to ECJ judgment: On 4 October 2011, the European Court of Justice their home.
For UK homes within our network reach we offer two, ECJ handed down its judgment in actions brought by the Premier copper-based DSL broadband products.
For each of our DSL League PL, amongst others, against pubs using and suppliers products, we give customers the maximum speed possible on the supplying foreign decoder cards and boxes to view live PL football.
Sky Broadband Lite is free for customers who also take line The ECJ determined that restrictions in an agreement between the PL rental and it has a 2GB monthly usage allowance.
Sky Broadband and its Greek licensee, which obliged that licensee not to supply Unlimited retails at 7.50 per month when taken with a TV service decoding devices to persons outside the licensed territory, are and has no monthly usage allowance or fair usage policy.
The ECJ found that, although the PL did not have British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 11 Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review Review of our business continued copyright in the live coverage of its football matches, the PL title Sky Atlantic: Sky Atlantic is the channel of choice for cinematic UK and sequences, logo, anthem and graphical elements did attract US drama.
The channel is the home of HBO content in the UK as part protection under the Copyright Directive.
The High Court consistently of an exclusive output deal.
Key series performers this year have been applied the ECJs judgment to the cases before it and the defendants Game of Thrones, The Following, The Borgias, Boardwalk Empire and in the civil litigation the foreign card suppliers were found to have Girls.
It won four Baftas this year and was nominated for Channel of infringed the PLs copyright.
The High Court also held that certain the Year.
New British dramas coming to the channel in the provisions in the PLs agreements with foreign distributors prohibiting forthcoming year include Fleming and The Tunnel.
the distribution of decoder cards outside of the authorised territory Sky Arts: Sky Arts 1 is for audiences who love the Arts, and love were void under competition law.
This year it has had its biggest audience ever with A Young Doctors Notebook, an original UK commission, starring John The PL appealed to the Court of Appeal a limited aspect of the High Hamm and Daniel Radcliffe.
It has had remarkable success with Court decision which had found that the defendants had a defence to Playhouse Presents a run of one off plays starring actors such as the allegation of infringement of the PLs film copyright.
In December Brenda Blenthyn, Alison Steadman, Vanessa Redgrave and Kylie 2012, the Court of Appeal found that the defendants did have a Minogue.
Sky Arts 2 continues to broadcast a range of the best in defence in relation to the film copyright, but only because the UK has classical arts programming from around the world, including opera, failed to implement properly the Copyright Directive.
It is likely that literature, theatre, film and dance.
Upcoming highlights will include the government will need to change UK law in order to bring it in line the first ever portrait competition with the National Portrait Gallery with the Directive, although there is no indication as to the timing of and Talks Music a unique interview series giving an exclusive insight any such change.
into the careers of some of the worlds most iconic music legends.
OUR CONTENT Sky 1, Sky Living, Sky Atlantic, Sky Arts 1 and Sky Arts 2 are all broadcast in HD and are also available on Sky Go except Sky Arts 2, Overview of our content and content from the channels is available on demand via On Demand, Sky Go and Sky Go Extra.
The main reason why our customers come to Sky is the choice of high quality content that we provide.
It is key that the content we offer Our partner channels differentiates Sky from what is available on the free-to-air channels.
To complement our own entertainment channels, Skys pay TV Our News, Movies and Sports channels are best in breed and offering also includes a range of high quality channels from other considerable investment is now being made in our Entertainment broadcasters.
This includes well known channels from major portfolio to provide distinct channel destinations.
We are increasing international broadcasters such as Disney, Discovery, Viacom, Fox and NBC Universal, amongst others.
Partner channels such as our investment in original British content to 600 million per year by the end of 2014.
We have had considerable success with comedy Comedy Central, Gold, Watch, SyFy, Fox and MTV add breadth to with over 20 original series delivered in the last year and will start to Skys entertainment offering, with some very popular UK deliver a range of new British drama series in the year ahead.
We are commissioned shows such as Dynamo: Magician Impossible, which delivered record audiences during the year.
Our childrens offering also working with our partner channels such as History, National Geographic and Comedy Central to increase their commitment to includes channels from the trusted Disney and Nickelodeon brands, delivering original British content.
and our factual offering includes some outstanding content from the likes of Discovery, National Geographic and History Channel.
The majority of our partner channels are now made available to our Our channel portfolio customers in HD, with great content available On Demand.
Our entertainment channels Sky 1: Sky 1 is our flagship entertainment channel providing content Sky Movies Sky Movies Overview: Sky Movies has an unbeatable range of films that appeals to the whole household.
The majority of its content including most of the latest Hollywood blockbusters new British investment is in UK commissions with a focus on comedy and films and a deep library of all-time greats.
Sky 1 was once again nominated for Channel of the Year having won it for the first time in 20 years last year.
Its aim is to agreements with the major studios and some of the leading independents, Sky Movies offers customers over 800 movies on have 12 high profile shows every year that customers value this demand and across 11 dedicated channels, including new premieres year they included Stella, Got To Dance, Mad Dogs, Modern Family, every week.
Sky Movies customers can enjoy these new films within Strikeback, An Idiot Abroad, The Simpsons, and Trollied.
Sky 1 has focused on increasing the number of long running British drama 9 months from their initial release in cinemas and at least 12 months before any online movies subscription service.
series and a new addition for the year ahead will be The Smoke, a ten In the last year we created the pop up channel Sky Movies 007, part drama series from the makers of Spooks.
which is the home to the complete Bond film franchise a world Sky Living: Sky Living remains a destination of choice for our female customers and their partners.
We have had considerable success first.
We also launched Sky Movies Disney, a ground breaking partnership bringing Sky Movies customers exclusive Disney movies.
with new and returning US dramas such as Elementary, Hannibal, Together with Disney Movies on Demand, we have the most Bones, and Greys Anatomy.
We have also started to introduce British comprehensive Disney movies offering in the UK.
comedy to the channel with the highly acclaimed Love Matters and continue to deliver well loved formats such as Britain and Irelands In addition to enjoying movies whenever they want with On Demand, Sky Movies customers can also watch movies wherever Next Top Model.
High profile series coming to the channel this year they are with Sky Go.
The Sky Movies channels are also available via include Dracula a co-production with NBC, Doll and Em a semiNOW TV.
All of the Sky Movies channels are available in HD.
We dont improvised comedy set in LA and The Face hosted by Naomi Campbell.
12 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Business review Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review show any advertisements during our films and we PIN-protect Obligations require Sky, amongst other things, to offer the Affected pre-watershed.
Channels on a wholesale basis to third parties which satisfy various Competition Commission Investigation: In August 2010, Ofcom minimum qualifying criteria including financial, technical and security referred the supply and acquisition of pay TV movie rights and the criteria.
The WMO Obligations specify maximum prices that Sky may wholesale supply and acquisition of pay TV packages including Skys charge for Sky Sports 1 and or Sky Sports 2.
Under the WMO movie channels to the Competition Commission CC for Obligations, the wholesale price is linked to Skys retail price.
The CC published its final report on 2 August 2012, The WMO Obligations do not specify a maximum price for Sky concluding that the Groups position in the acquisition and Sports 1 HD and or Sky Sports 2 HD.
Rather, they require Sky to offer distribution of movies in the first pay window did not adversely these channels on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis.
In affect competition in the pay TV retail market and that accordingly April 2010, Sky applied to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT for remedies were not required.
a suspension of the implementation of the WMO Obligations.
On 29 April 2010, Skys application was resolved by way of an agreed Order Sky Sports from the President of the CAT.
The terms of the Order resulted in the Sky Sports Overview: The Sky Sports Channels are Sky Sports 1, Sky suspension of certain aspects of Ofcoms decision, pending the Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sports 4, Sky Sports News and Sky outcome of Skys substantive appeal.
In summary, the effect of the Sports F1 together with their HD simulcasts.
The channels are also Order is as follows: all available online on Sky Go and via NOW TV.
Some content from Sky is required to offer the Affected Channels to each of BT, Top these channels is also available On Demand.
In the 2012 calendar Up TV and Virgin Media VM for distribution via DTT and to VM year, we broadcast 49,000 hours of sport across our six channel for distribution via cable.
Other parties may apply to the CAT to network.
be added to the list of persons to whom Sky is required, subject Sky Sports programming: Our programming rights for the Sky Sports to the satisfaction of minimum qualifying criteria, to offer its Channels include exclusive live rights to broadcast, in the UK and in channels on 23 November 2010, REAL Digital EPG Services most cases Ireland, a range of sport including a number of football Limited was added to the list in respect of DTH satellite including Premier League, UEFA Champions League, Football distribution, but has not commenced distribution of any Sky League and La Liga, motorsport, rugby union, rugby league, cricket, Sports channels.
In 2013 Sky Sports set a number of new In the event that BT, Top Up TV or VM enter into a distribution record audiences for individual sports.
These include records for the agreement for Sky Sports 1 and or Sky Sports 2, the distributor is dramatic climax to the 2012 Ryder Cup, Andy Murrays win at the US required to pay Sky the equivalent of the maximum price Sky may Open, and the recent Lions series.
Audiences watching on devices charge for the channel s under the WMO Obligations.
The other than televisions also increased, with Sky Go viewing regularly difference between that price and the rate card price set by Sky adding 10% to in-home audience figures.
The year ahead is set to be will be paid into escrow.
another exciting year for Sky Sports.
For the first time we will have back to back Ashes series, with the summer series being played out On 8 August 2012, the CAT handed down its judgment on Skys appeal on the temporarily re-branded Sky Sports Ashes channel.
Coverage against Ofcoms decision to impose the WMO Obligations the Pay under the new PL contract commences on 17 August 2013 and this TV Judgment, publishing its full judgment on 26 October 2012.
The season we will broadcast 116 live PL games, more than ever before.
CAT found that Ofcoms core competition concern is unfounded The start of the 2013 14 PL season will also see the launch of our Ofcom had found that Sky deliberately withheld wholesale supply of new Game Changers programme, which will aim to inspire greater the Affected Channels and that accordingly Skys appeal must be sports participation amongst children.
Both David Beckham and allowed.
Jessica Ennis-Hill will be providing master-classes as features within On 26 April 2013, BT was granted permission to appeal the Pay TV the show.
We also give valuable exposure to a wide range of other Judgment to the Court of Appeal.
The Court of Appeal has stayed sports which appeal to a smaller but equally committed audience.
the withdrawal of Ofcoms original decision and therefore the In March 2006, the European Commission rendered legally binding withdrawal of the WMO Obligations and distribution of the monies the PLs commitment to sell live TV rights in six balanced packages held in escrow pending determination of BTs appeal.
for the three seasons from 2010 11, with no one bidder being allowed to buy all six packages.
In February 2009, the Group Sky is currently unable to determine whether, and to what extent, BTs successfully bid for five of those six available packages each of 23 appeal would be successful, and it is not possible for Sky to conclude games of live rights to PL football in both the UK and Ireland for on the financial impact of any outcome at this stage: however, should three seasons to the end of the recently completed 2012 13 season.
the outcome of the appeal process be adverse to Sky this may have a In June 2012, following a restructure of the tender process, seven significant effect on the financial position or profitability of Sky.
packages of live Premier League rights to 154 matches for seasons Ofcom Competition Act Investigation: Following receipt of a 2013 14 to 2015 16 were offered by the PL eight packages covering complaint from BT, on 14 June 2013, Ofcom opened an investigation 184 matches in Ireland.
No one bidder was allowed to win more into whether Sky has abused a dominant position contrary to than 116 matches.
We successfully secured five of the seven PL Chapter II of the Competition Act 1998 and or Article 102 of the packages 116 live matches per year from the 2013 14 season for the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU.
BTs complaint alleges that the UK and Ireland.
terms on which Sky offered wholesale supply of Sky Sports I and 2 Wholesale must-offer obligations: On 31 March 2010, Ofcom published to BT for its service on the YouView platform amount to an abuse of its decision to impose wholesale must-offer obligations on Sky the dominance.
The complaint alleges that Sky is making wholesale WMO Obligations for the channels Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky supply of Sky Sports 1 and 2 to BT for its YouView service conditional Sports 1 HD and Sky Sports 2 HD the Affected Channels.
The WMO on BT wholesaling BT Sports Channels to Sky for retail on Skys British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 13 Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review Review of our business continued satellite platform.
BT is seeking interim measures from Ofcom.
Wholesale Distribution Ofcom has indicated that it expects to issue a decision on the Overview of wholesale distribution interim measures application in July.
Sky is currently unable to In fiscal 2013, we derived 396 million in revenues from the wholesale determine the outcome of Ofcoms investigation or of BTs distribution of our channel portfolio 2012: 351 million.
Wholesale application for interim measures.
operators see Wholesale Operators section below acquire the Sky News right from us to distribute certain of the Sky Channels which they Sky News provides national and international news to viewers in the combine with other channels from third parties and distribute to their UK, Ireland and across the globe.
The channel is broadcast subscribers.
unencrypted on Astra satellites see Satellites on page 15, and Wholesale Operators distributed to viewers via cable and satellite networks in Europe, In the UK, we have arrangements in place with VM and Talk Talk for the Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
It is also currently shown on most retransmission of certain of the Sky Channels and associated on cable networks in the UK and Ireland, on DTT in the UK as part of the demand services on their cable and IPTV systems respectively, as well Freeview offering and on the Freesat offering in the UK.
An HD version as an agreement with British Telecommunications for the distribution of Sky News is available only in Sky households.
Sky News is also of Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 via BT Vision Cardinal set-top boxes available to viewers on the Sky News website, Sky News mobile only.
As of 30 June 2013, we no longer distribute Sky Sports 1 and Sky applications, the Sky News for iPad application and on Sky Go.
In June, Sports 2 to Top Up TV Limited or otherwise via DTT in the UK.
In Sky News was the first 24-hour news channel to launch an application Ireland, we have arrangements in place with UPC Communications on Apple TV and is already attracting a good audience, particularly in Ireland Limited for the re-transmission of certain of the Sky Channels the US.
Overall, Sky News reaches 107 million homes in 118 countries, to their subscribers via its cable and MMDS systems.
We also have most recently adding Japan to the list.
contracts with a number of smaller regional cable operators in both Our television coverage of significant events such as the U. S. Election, the UK and Ireland.
the Boston Marathon Bomb and Margaret Thatchers funeral has Free-to-air distribution delivered strong audiences.
We currently broadcast versions of three of our channels, Sky News, Our joint venture, Sky News Arabia, also continues to grow audience Challenge and Pick TV, unencrypted free-to-air via DTT in the UK and and we continue to collaborate more closely on relevant stories, for since 3 December 2012 also on Freesat.
example, the recent coup in Egypt.
Betting and Gaming Sky News Digital has seen significant growth over the past 12 months, with unique users across all platforms averaging six million each We offer a range of betting and gaming services under the Sky Bet, month.
There have now been more than eight million downloads of Sky Poker, Sky Vegas and Sky Bingo brands, in relation to which mobile Sky News apps.
Sky acts as bookmaker and operator.
These products are licensed by the Alderney Gambling Control Commission and are made available OUR ADJACENT BUSINESSES across multiple platforms, including by means of Sky set-top boxes, by telephone, on the internet and on mobile devices.
The gambling Overview of our adjacent businesses business is certified by the gambling charity GamCare and has in In addition to the retail and broadcast operations described above, place stringent social responsibility measures for the protection of we operate a number of other operations including wholesaling our minors and other vulnerable people.
We also take active measures to channel portfolio, selling advertising on ours and partner channels, prevent persons resident in the US and other restricted jurisdictions our Sky betting and gaming business and our international from participating in our internet gaming and betting services.
We are able to monetise our content investments more broadly with these activities as they benefit from a Sky Vision larger customer base.
In July 2012, we acquired the Parthenon Media Group, a leading independent international distribution and multi-media rights Sky Media management company.
Now rebranded as Sky Vision, it has In 2013, we derived revenue of 440 million from advertising sales and established a new distribution arm to market the international rights sponsorship 2012: 440 million.
Sky Media sells advertising and to our originated content as well as content from third parties.
The sponsorship across all of the Sky Channels and also acts as the distribution capability generates revenues from Skys content advertising and sponsorship sales representative for 17 channel investment from the sale of overseas rights, which in turn enables us partners representing 69 channels.
We also sell online advertising to reinvest in the UKs creative economy for the benefit of both across Skys network of websites, mobile advertising, greenbutton customers and content makers.
advertising, advertising across Skys video on demand service and product placement opportunities.
Sky is in the process of developing INFRASTRUCTURE AND TECHNOLOGY Adsmart, its capability to deliver targeted advertising to its customer Overview of our infrastructure and technology base and intends to launch later in 2013.
Sky utilises a powerful hybrid network to deliver a high quality integrated entertainment experience for our customers.
Satellite remains the most efficient means to broadcast HD live TV into the home and the local storage of the HD set-top box gives customers 14 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Business review Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review the added capability of time-shifted viewing.
Our HD box is Ethernet conjunction with such activities support the development of additional new features and functionality for those set-top boxes.
enabled and connects via broadband to give customers access to our On Demand service.
We have also developed a range of software applications that enable access to our content across multiple Encryption and security devices and away from the home.
Developing and maintaining our We use VideoGuard conditional access technology to encrypt and technological capabilities is critical to our commitment to, and decrypt digital television and audio services and to control access to passion for, continued innovation.
certain channels on our DTH platform.
We use the VideoGuard technology and distribute smartcards in the UK and Ireland under an Satellites agreement with NDS.
NDS supplies smartcards and undertakes ongoing The digital transmissions of our channels, for reception both by DTH security development and other support services in return for the payment of fees by us.
In conjunction with NDS, we maintain a policy of customers and cable operators, take place using capacity on a number of satellite transponders on the SES Astra 2A, 2F and 1N satellites and, refining and updating the VideoGuard technology in order to restrict until 3 October 2013, on the Eutelsat 28A satellite.
We contract with SES unauthorised DTH reception of our services.
We take appropriate Astra for the majority of this capacity currently 32 transponders and, measures to counter the threats of unauthorised reception, including the implementation of over-the-air counter measures altering authorised until 3 October 2013, with Arqiva for the remaining capacity four transponders on the Eutelsat 28A satellite.
In June 2009, we signed a smartcards in a manner which then renders counterfeit smartcards long term transponder arrangement with SES Astra which covers the obsolete and seeking legal remedies, both civil and criminal, reasonably renewal of the arrangements on 24 of our transponders.
We constantly monitor and review other methods of piracy of our services that may be developed and where appropriate we transponder agreements have expiry dates between 2019 and 2025 and thus provide long term security for the platform.
As part of this deploy countermeasures to thwart such activities.
arrangement we also entered into an inter-satellite back-up Other digital rights management and or conditional access systems transponder agreement which provides protection for 31 of our SES are used to protect our content when it is distributed by means of Astra supplied transponders in the event of transponder or satellite other platforms e. g. cable, DTT or via the range of devices relying on failures.
We have been designated a non pre-emptible customer Internet-delivery.
Where we wholesale our content these systems will under each of our transponder agreements.
This means that, in the have been deployed and are operated by the relevant wholesale event of satellite or transponder malfunction, our use of these customer e. g. VM or TalkTalk and similarly in relation to certain transponders cannot be suspended or terminated by SES Astra or devices e. g. iPhones or Xbox the device manufacturer may determine Eutelsat in favour of another broadcaster with pre-emption rights in the type of content protection system deployed.
We have also put in place disaster recovery plans in the event that we experience any significant disruption of our DTT Transmission transponder capacity.
Arqiva provides DTT capacity on Multiplex C for Skys three DTT We consider that these arrangements with SES Astra are essential to channels under a technical services agreement which expires in the business of the Group within the meaning of section 417 5 c of November 2014. the Companies Act 2006.
In addition to using some of the transponder capacity that we have Communications Infrastructure contracted to broadcast Sky Channels, some of our transponder capacity Our UK broadband network comprises a fixed access network, a and in some cases all of the capacity on a particular transponder is public WiFi access network, and a long distance core fibre network.
To sub-contracted to third parties for the transmission of other channels or provide broadband and talk services in the UK, we rent access to the services, including certain of the Sky Distributed Channels.
copper line to the customer home from BT on regulated terms and prices as well as wholesale managed products from BT in some Playout and uplink facilities instances.
Those lines are connected to our own electronic Our uplinking facilities, located in southern England, provide uplinking equipment in the local telephone exchange.
Our electronic equipment capacity for our digital services to the satellites referred to above.
is currently sited in 2,323 telephone exchanges, covering Our television channels are distributed from two sites with each of approximately 88% of the UKs population.
To provide fibre the sites providing backup service for the other.
broadband, we purchased a further wholesale product from BT based on fibre to the cabinet technology, which BT is again obliged by Digital satellite reception equipment regulation to supply.
Our core fibre network is one of the most extensive all-IP, fibre optic networks in the UK.
It comprises 7,500 In order to receive our DTH service, customers are required to have a kilometres of high capacity fibre optic circuits, stretching from digital satellite system, which includes a satellite dish and LNB low Cornwall to Scotland.
We do not operate our own network in Ireland noise block converter, a digital satellite receiver set-top box, a but instead supply Sky Talk and Sky Broadband in Ireland using the smartcard and a remote control.
network of our wholesale partner BT Ireland.
We source all of our set-top boxes from our own manufacturing SIGNIFICANT AGREEmENTS division, Home Service and Supply.
Our Product Design and Development division work with Home Service and Supply, to design, The Companies Act 2006 requires us to disclose the following specify, develop and sell HD set-top boxes both PVRs and standard significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a set-top boxes, although the actual manufacture of these set-top change of control of the Company: boxes is outsourced to factories in Romania and China, and in British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 15 Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review Review of our business continued Premier League credit rating occurs within a certain period of time after the change of control and the relevant rating agency cites that such decision s In 2012, British Sky Broadcasting Limited a Group subsidiary entered resulted from the change of control.
into an agreement the PL Licence with The Football Association Premier League Limited the PL, pursuant to which the Group was February 2008, November 2008 and November 2012 bond issues awarded five of seven available packages of live audio-visual rights for Premier League football the seven packages are together the Live In February 2008, the Group entered into an indenture in respect of Packages together consisting of 116 live matches per season.
The PL US$750 million 6.100% senior unsecured notes due 2018.
In November will not award Live Packages containing in the aggregate more than 2008, the Group entered into an indenture in respect of US$600 116 live matches per season to a single licensee either on its own or million 9.500% senior unsecured notes due 2018.
In November 2012, as part of a consortium or through one or more of its related parties the Group updated the November 2008 indenture in respect of a the Single Buyer Rule.
Pursuant to the PL Licence, the PL can further issuance of US$800 million 3.125% senior unsecured notes suspend and or terminate all of the rights which are included in, or due November 2022.
Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the exercisable as part of, Live Packages containing in the aggregate up to securities, the Company will be required to make an offer to redeem 38 live matches per season in the event that a change of control of or purchase its securities at a price equal to 101% of their principal the Company occurs at any time prior to the expiry of the PL Licence amount plus accrued and unpaid interest up to the date of which, if it had occurred prior to the award of the Live Packages to the redemption or repurchase, if there is a change of control of the Group, would have resulted in a breach of the Single Buyer Rule.
Company i which, if the securities carry an investment grade credit rating, results in a downgrade to a non-investment grade rating or a withdrawal of that rating: or ii which, if the securities carry a Revolving Credit Facility non-investment grade rating, results in a downgrade by one or more The Group has a 743 million syndicated revolving credit facility notches or a withdrawal of that non-investment grade rating: or iii RCF with a maturity date of 31 October 2017.
There is one further where if the securities do not carry a credit rating, the Company does opportunity to request an extension of one additional year to the not seek such a rating or is unable to achieve such a rating, provided RCF, at the lenders discretion, with a potential final maturity of that in each case the decision to downgrade, withdraw or not to October 2018.
The lenders can require any amounts outstanding award a credit rating occurs within a certain period of time after the under the RCF to be repaid in the event of a change of control of the change of control and the relevant rating agency cites that such Company other than in the event that Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. decision s resulted from the change of control.
or any subsidiary or holding company thereof or a subsidiary of such holding company acquires such control.
UK broadcasting licences Twenty-First Century Fox voting agreement The Group is party to a number of Ofcom broadcasting licences for the broadcast of the Sky Channels.
The Broadcasting Act 1990 as On 21 September 2005, the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc. 21st Century amended by the Broadcasting Act 1996 and the Communications Act Fox UK Nominees Limited and Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. entered lays down a number of restrictions on those parties permitted to into a voting agreement, pursuant to which 21st Century Fox UK hold Ofcom broadcasting licences.
Among those restricted from Nominees Limiteds voting rights at any general meeting are capped holding Ofcom broadcasting licences or from controlling a licensed at 37.19% the Voting Agreement.
The provisions of the Voting company are a local authorities, b political bodies, c religious Agreement cease to apply inter alia, on a change of control of the bodies, d any company controlled by any of the previous categories Company.
or by their officers or associates, e advertising agencies or any company controlled by such an agency or in which it holds more than EMTN bond issue a 5% interest.
Licensees have an ongoing obligation to comply with these ownership restrictions.
Failure by a licensee to do so either by On 3 April 2007, the Group established a euro medium term note the licensee becoming a disqualified person or any change affecting programme the EMTN Programme which provides the Group with a the nature, characteristics or control of the licensee which would have standardised documentation platform to allow for senior debt precluded the original grant of the licence may constitute a breach of issuance in the Eurobond markets.
The maximum potential issuance the licence and, if not rectified, could result in revocation of the under the EMTN Programme is 1 billion.
EMTN Programme, the Company issued Eurobonds consisting of 300 million guaranteed notes paying 6.000% interest and maturing on Ofcom also has a duty under the Broadcasting Acts to be satisfied that 14 May 2027 the Notes.
Pursuant to the final terms attaching to any person holding a broadcasting licence is fit and proper to hold those the Notes, the Company will be required to make an offer to redeem licences and may revoke those licences if it ceases to be so satisfied.
or purchase its Notes at its principal amount plus interest up to the On 20 September 2012, Ofcom published its decision finding the Group date of redemption or repurchase if there is a change of control of the to be a fit and proper holder of its broadcasting licences.
In its decision, Company i which, if the Notes carry an investment grade credit rating, results in a downgrade to a non-investment grade rating or a Ofcom found no evidence that Sky was involved in any wrongdoing either admitted or alleged to have taken place at the News of the World or the withdrawal of that rating: or ii where, if the Notes carry a nonSun together, the News Group Newspapers.
However, Ofcom also investment grade rating, results in a downgrade by one or more considered whether the characters and conduct of James Murdoch, notches or a withdrawal of that non-investment grade rating: or iii where, if the Notes do not carry a credit rating, the Company does not Rupert Murdoch and News Corporation to the extent implicated in, or tainted by, alleged or admitted wrongdoing at News Group Newspapers seek such a rating or is unable to achieve such a rating, provided that were relevant to the Groups fitness and propriety to hold broadcasting in each case the decision to downgrade, withdraw or not to award a 16 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
