Strategic Report continued Business Review Structure and Objective of the Company Investment Limits and Restrictions all at time of investment JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc is an investment trust The Company will not normally invest more than 8% of its and has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Its gross assets in any one individual stock 31st December objective is to provide shareholders with capital growth from 2013: 4.4% largest individual stock.
In seeking to achieve this objective the Company employs J. P. Morgan Asset Management The Company will normally limit its five largest investments UK Limited JPMAM or the Manager to actively manage the to 40% of its gross assets.
The Board has determined an investment The Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross policy and related guidelines and limits, as described below.
It assets in liquidity funds in normal market conditions aims to outperform the S&P 500 Index, with net dividends 31st December 2013: 1.2%.
reinvested, expressed in sterling terms.
The Company will not invest more than 10% of gross assets The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and in companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of regulations including UK company law, Financial Reporting gross assets in UK listed investment companies Standards, Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency 31st December 2013: 0%.
Rules, taxation law and the Companys own Articles of Association.
The Company is an investment company within The Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has assets in other UK listed investment companies been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment 31st December 2013: 0%.
trust for the purposes of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the The Company will use gearing when appropriate to Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended 31st December increase potential returns to shareholders.
The Directors have no reason to believe that approval will gearing policy is to operate within a range of 5% net cash to not continue to be obtained.
The Company is not a close 20% geared in normal market conditions.
The Manager is company for taxation purposes.
accountable for tactically managing the gearing, within a Investment Policies and Risk Management 2.0% range around a normal gearing level.
The normal gearing level, which is set by the Board and kept under In order to achieve its investment objectives and to seek to review, is currently 10%.
manage risk, the Company mainly invests in a diversified portfolio of quoted companies including, when appropriate, The Company only hedges its currency risk in respect of the exposure to smaller capitalisation stocks.
The Company full value of the debenture.
currently has separate portfolios dedicated to larger Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and capitalisation and smaller capitalisation exposure.
The number guidelines is monitored by the Manager and is reported to the of investments in the larger capitalisation portfolio will Board on a monthly basis.
normally range between 60-100 stocks representing between 80-100% of the Companys equity portfolio.
The number of Performance investments in the smaller capitalisation portfolio will normally In the year ended 31st December 2013, the Company range between 100-120 stocks representing between 0-20% produced a total return to shareholders of 33.0% and a total of the Companys equity portfolio.
The Company may invest return on net assets of 30.9%.
This compares with the return in pooled funds to achieve these aims.
on the Companys benchmark in sterling terms, of 29.5%.
At As at the year end, the Company was invested in 88 larger 31st December 2013, the value of the Companys investment capitalisation stocks and 118 smaller capitalisation stocks, portfolio was 711 million.
The Investment Managers Report representing 95.5% and 3.3% of the Companys total assets on pages 13 to 17 includes a review of developments during respectively.
The Company also held one unquoted stock, Kane the year as well as information on investment activity within Holdings.
24 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends Ten Year Performance As detailed on page 47, gross total return for the year Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st December 2003 amounted to 155.4 million 2012: 43.3 million and net total 300 return after deducting finance costs, administrative expenses and taxation, amounted to 146.2 million 2012: 35.3 million.
250 Distributable income for the year totalled 7.8 million 2012: 200 6.7 million.
In addition to the 5.0p interim dividend already paid, the 150 Directors recommend a final dividend of 8.5p per share 2012: 100 7.5p, payable on 9th May 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 11th May 2014.
An interim dividend 50 of 5.0p per share 2012: 5.0p was paid on 9th October 2013.
payment of the final dividend the revenue reserve will amount JPMorgan American share price total return.
JPMorgan American net asset value per share total return.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs Performance against the Companys peers The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: to the benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors Performance against the benchmark index performance relative to a broad range of appropriate This is an important KPI by which performance is judged.
competitor funds both in the UK and the US.
Performance attribution Performance Relative to Benchmark Index The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st December 2003 assess how the Company achieved its performance relative 130 to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the Companys relative performance of the various 120 components such as asset allocation, gearing and stock selection.
Details of the attribution analysis for the year 110 ended 31st December 2013 are given in the Investment Managers Report on page 14.
100 Share price relative to net asset value NAV per share with debt at fair value 90 The Board has adopted a share issuance and repurchase 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 policy that seeks to address imbalances in supply of and Source: Morningstar.
demand for the Companys shares in the market and JPMorgan American share price total return.
thereby seeks to manage the volatility and absolute level of JPMorgan American net asset value per share total return.
the premium and discount to NAV per share at which the The Benchmark total return is represented by the grey horizontal line.
The Boards intention is to use its share issuance and repurchase powers with the aim of establishing a reasonably stable long term level of premium and discount.
In the year to 31st December 2013, the shares traded between a premium of 0.7% and 1.0%.
Please refer to the Chairmans Statement on pages 7 and 8 for further information.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 25 Strategic Report continued Business Review continued Principal Risks Discount Performance With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up 6 a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
3 These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: 0 Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment 3 strategy, for example asset allocation or the level of 6 gearing, may lead to underperformance against the 9 Companys benchmark index and peer companies, resulting in the Companys shares trading on a wider 12 discount.
The Board manages this risk by insisting on 15 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 diversification of investments through its investment Source: Datastream.
restrictions and guidelines which are monitored and JPMorgan American discount using capital NAV with debt at fair value.
reported on regularly by the Managers.
J. P. Morgan Asset Management JPMAM provides the Directors with timely Ongoing charges and accurate management information, including The ongoing charges represent the Companys performance data and attribution analyses, revenue management fee and all other operating expenses, estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder analyses.
excluding finance costs and any performance fee payable, The Board monitors the implementation and results of expressed as a percentage of the average daily net assets the investment process with the investment manager, who during the year.
The ongoing charges excluding any attends the majority of Board meetings, and reviews data performance fee for the year ended 31st December 2013 which shows statistical measures of the Companys risk is 0.63% 2012: 0.68%.
The ongoing charges including any profile.
The investment manager employs the Companys performance fee payable is the ratio, expressed in gearing within a strategic range set by the Board.
percentage terms, of the management fee plus all other Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the operating expenses plus any performance fee payable, but future prices of the Companys investments.
This market excluding finance costs, to the average of the month end risk comprises three elements currency risk, interest net assets during the year.
The ongoing charges including rate risk and other price risk.
The Board considers asset performance fee payable for the year ended 31st December allocation, stock selection and levels of gearing on a 2013 is 0.66% 2012: 0.68%.
regular basis and has set investment restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and reported on by Share Capital JPMAM.
The Board monitors the implementation and The Company has authority to both purchase shares for results of the investment process with the Manager.
cancellation and issue new shares in the market for cash at a However, the fortunes of the portfolio are significantly premium to net asset value.
determined by market movements in US equities, the rate The Company did not repurchase any shares for cancellation of exchange between US dollars and sterling and interest during the year 2012: nil.
During the year, the Company issued 3,402,190 new ordinary Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: The shares to the market at an average price of 1,158.67p per share, sudden departure of the investment manager or several for a total gross consideration of 37,665,000.
Since the year members of the wider investment management team could end, the Company has issued a further 1,370,000 shares to the result in a short term deterioration in investment market at an average price of 1,176.25p per share, for a total performance.
The Manager takes steps to reduce the gross consideration received of 16,004,000. likelihood of such an event by ensuring appropriate succession planning and the adoption of a team based Special Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue and approach, as well as special efforts to retain key personnel.
repurchase shares will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
26 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Change of Corporate Control of the Manager: The Board result in the Companys securities being lost or that access holds regular meetings with senior representatives of to them is compromised.
Details of how the Board monitors JPMAM in order to obtain assurance that the Manager the services provided by JPMAM and its associates and the continues to demonstrate a high degree of commitment key elements designed to provide effective internal control to its investment trusts business through the provision of are included within the Risk Management and Internal significant resources.
Control section of the Corporate Governance report on pages 37 and 38.
Share Price Relative to Net Asset Value NAV per Share: If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include NAV per share, the shares are said to be trading at a market price risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, discount.
Throughout the majority of 2013, the Companys liquidity risk, credit risk, counterparty risk and fraud.
However, the Board monitors Further details are disclosed in note 22 on pages 63 to 69. the Companys premium discount level and will seek, Going concern: Pursuant to the Sharman Report, Boards where deemed prudent, to address imbalances in the are now advised to consider going concern as a potential supply and demand of the Companys shares through a risk, whether or not there is an apparent issue arising in programme of share buybacks.
Going concern is considered rigorously Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as on an ongoing basis and the Boards statement on going an investment trust, the Company must comply with concern is detailed on page 31.
Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Political and Economic: Changes in financial or tax Section 1158.
Details of the Companys approval are given legislation, including in the US and the European Union, under Business of the Company above.
Were the Company may adversely effect the Company: current examples are to breach Section 1158, it might lose investment trust status the AIFM Directive and FATCA.
The Manager makes and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys recommendations to the Board on accounting, dividend portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The and tax policies and the Board seeks external advice Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually monitored where appropriate.
In addition, the Company is subject to by JPMAM and the results reported to the Board each political risks, such as the imposition of restrictions on the month.
The Company must also comply with the provisions free movement of capital.
of the Companies Act 2006 and, as its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules and Corporate Activity: There is always a risk when companies Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTRs.
A breach of the undertake inappropriate corporate initiatives, such as Companies Act 2006 could result in the Company and or takeovers and mergers.
To protect against this the Board the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal has no ambition to undertake such an initiative.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs how mindful of how such initiatives can destroy value to could result in the Companys shares being suspended from shareholders, the Board would only do so if it was crystal listing, which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The clear that it would increase value and returns to Directors seek to comply with all relevant regulation and shareholders without changing the profile or risk of the legislation in the UK, Europe and the US and rely on the Company.
This would require extensive due diligence, services of its Company Secretary, JPMAM, and its advice and discussion.
professional advisers to monitor compliance with all Please refer to pages 37 and 38 for details of the Companys relevant requirements.
risk management and internal controls.
Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs Board Diversity accounting, dealing or payments systems could prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys When recruiting a new Director, the Boards policy is to financial position.
The insolvency, negligence, poor appoint individuals on merit.
Diversity is important in administration or fraud at the Companys custodian could bringing an appropriate range of skills and experience to JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 27 Strategic Report continued Business Review continued the Board.
At 31st December 2013, there were three male Greenhouse Gas Emissions Directors and two female Directors on the Board.
Please refer The Company is managed by JPMAM.
It has no employees and to page 35 for more information on the workings of the all of its Directors are non-executive, the day to day activities Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
being carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Company Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights Issues itself has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or diesel The Company has a management contract with JPMAM.
It has fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon no employees and all of its Directors are non-executive, the footprint.
The Companys manager, JPMAM, is a signatory to day to day activities being carried out by third parties.
There the Carbon Disclosure Project and JPMorgan Chase is a are therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of signatory to the Equator Principles on managing social and employees.
The Board notes the JPMAM policy statements in environmental risk in project finance.
respect of Social, Community, Environmental and Human Rights issues, as outlined below.
Future Developments The future development of the Company is much dependent Social, Community, Environmental and Human Rights upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible light of economic and equity market developments.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic Investment Manager discusses the market outlook in his interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial report on page 17. issues such as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and governance By order of the Board ESG team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and Alison Vincent for and on behalf of report on social and environmental risks and issues specific to their JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited industry.
JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Secretary Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six principles, 25th March 2014 with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when making stock selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach to how we implement the principles is available on request.
28 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
