Directors Report The Directors present their report and audited financial The Board has set no minimum or maximum limits on the statements for the year ended 30th June 2013. number of investments in the portfolio but it is a relatively concentrated portfolio consisting typically of between 60 and Business Review 90 investments.
The assets are managed by an investment manager based in London who is supported by a 50 strong Business of the Company emerging markets equity team.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust and was approved by HM Revenue and Customs as an investment It should be noted that historically, emerging market trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax companies and investments in their shares have shown Act 2010 Section 1158 for the year ended 30th June 2012. greater volatility and may be subject to certain political and In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has corporate governance risks which are not typically associated subsequently conducted its affairs so that it should continue with more developed markets and economies.
to qualify as an investment trust under HM Revenue & Investment Restrictions and Guidelines Customs qualifying rules.
The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing Approval in previous years is subject to review should there various investment limits and restrictions: be any subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self The Company will not invest more than 10% of its total Assessment.
assets in any one individual stock excluding investment The Company is an investment company within the meaning of trusts at the time of acquisition.
Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not a No more than 50% of the Companys assets may be close company for taxation purposes.
invested in any one region.
A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in No more than an aggregate of 25% of the Companys the Chairmans Statement on pages2 and3, and in the assets before deducting borrowings may be invested Investment Managers Report on pages4to7.
in: i securities not listed on any recognised investment Objective exchange: and ii holdings in which the Companys interest The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from amounts to 20% or more of the aggregate of the equity emerging markets worldwide.
capital including any capital having an element of equity of any one listed company other than an investment trust Investment Policies and Risk Management which has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs or In order to achieve the investment objective and to seek to which would qualify for such approval but for the fact that manage risk, the Company invests in a well diversified spread it is not listed.
of countries, industries and companies.
The Company invests primarily in quoted securities in emerging stock markets but, In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing where necessary or appropriate in the absence of suitable Authority, the Company will not invest more than 15% of quoted securities, it may invest in unquoted securities.
It may its gross assets in other UK listed investment companies invest in other collective investment schemes, but usually only and will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in where legal restrictions prevent direct investment by companies that themselves may invest more than 15% foreigners or prudent diversification can best be achieved in of gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to achieve and The Company does not normally enter into derivative maintain approved investment trust status in the UK.
transactions, other than short term forward currency The Company is managed to produce capital growth and not to contracts to manage working capital requirements and to produce any particular level of dividend and therefore the level do so requires prior Board approval.
These limits and restrictions may be varied by the Board at any The Boards policy is to employ gearing when the Manager time at its discretion.
believes it is appropriate to do so.
The Board regularly reviews Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and this policy.
Should the Manager decide to employ gearing, the guidelines is monitored continuously by the Manager and is Company will remain invested in the range of 90-120% under reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
18 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Performance Ten Year Performance In the year to 30th June 2013, the Company produced a total Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th June 2003 return to Ordinary shareholders of 7.6% and an undiluted total 700 return on net assets of 10.0%.
This compares with the return on the Companys benchmark index of 6.4%.
At 30th June 2013, 600 the value of the Companys investment portfolio including 500 liquidity fund holdings was 783.9 million.
The Investment 400 Managers Report on pages4to7 includes a review of developments during the year as well as information on 300 investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
200 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends 100 Gross total return for the year amounted to 95.0 million 2012: 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 79.9 million loss and net total return after deducting Source: Morningstar.
management fee, performance fee, other administrative JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price total return.
expenses, finance costs and taxation amounted to 81.4 million JPMorgan Emerging Markets diluted net asset value total return.
Distributable income for the year JPMorgan Emerging Markets undiluted net asset value total return.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of5.5p per share Performance against the Companys peers payable on 25th November 2013 to holders on the register at The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative the close of business on 25th October 2013.
This distribution to the benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors the will amount to 6.6 million.
The revenue reserve after performance relative to a broad range of competitor funds.
payment of the final dividend will amount to 9.4 million Performance attribution 2012:8.2 million.
The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to Key Performance Indicators KPIs assess how the Company achieved its performance relative to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and the Companys relative performance of the various assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: components such as asset allocation and stock selection.
Performance against the benchmark index Details of the attribution analysis for the year ended This is the most important KPI by which performance is 30th June 2013 are given in the Investment Managers judged.
Information on the Companys performance is Report on page5.
given in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Share price discount to net asset value NAV per share Managers Report.
The Board has a share repurchase policy which seeks to address imbalances in supply of and demand for the Performance Relative to Benchmark Index Companys shares within the market.
This helps to reduce Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th June 2003 the volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV per 150 share at which the Companys shares trade in relation to its 140 peers in the sector.
In the year to 30th June 2013, the Companys shares traded at a discount to the diluted net 130 asset value per share of between 6.5% and 12.2%.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price total return.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets undiluted net asset value total return.
Benchmark represented by the horizontal line.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 19 Directors Report continued Subscription Shares Discount Performance On 11th June 2009 the Company issued 22,059,783 Subscription 0 shares as a bonus issue to Ordinary shareholders on the basis of one Subscription share for every five Ordinary shares held.
Each -3 Subscription share confers the right but not the obligation to -6 subscribe for one Ordinary share on any business day during -9 the period from 1st August 2009 to 31st July 2014 both dates inclusive when the rights under the Subscription shares will -12 lapse.
The Subscription shares may be exercised between -15 1st August 2012 and 31st July 2014 at a price of 543 pence.
-18 Further details on the Subscription shares, including the 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 apportionments for capital gains tax purposes and how they Source: Datastream month end data.
may be exercised, can be found on page 66 of this report and JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price discount to diluted net asset value per Ordinary share.
on the Companys website at www.
co. uk Principal Risks Ongoing charges With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up The ongoing charges represent the Companys management a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
fee and all other operating expenses excluding finance These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: costs and performance fee payable, expressed as a percentage of the average of the daily net assets during the Investment Underperformance: An inappropriate investment year.
The ongoing charges for the year ended 30th June strategy, for example asset allocation, the level of gearing or 2013 were 1.14% 2012: 1.18%.
The Board reviews each year the degree of portfolio risk, could lead to underperformance an analysis which shows a comparison of the Companys against the Companys benchmark index and peer ongoing charges and its main expenses with those of its companies, resulting in the Companys shares trading on peers.
The Board manages these risks by diversification of investments and through a set of Share Capital investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored The Directors have, on behalf of the Company, the authority and reported on by the Manager.
JPMAM provides the both to repurchase shares in the market for cancellation and to Directors with timely and accurate management information, issue new shares for cash on behalf of the Company.
including performance data and attribution analyses, A total of 2,669,417 shares were repurchased into Treasury revenue estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder during the year under review, for a total consideration of analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation and 15,496,000.
The Company did not allot any new shares for results of the investment process with the Investment cash other than on the conversion of Subscription shares.
Since Manager, who attends all Board meetings, and reviews data the year end a further 46,705 shares have been repurchased which show statistical measures of the Companys risk into Treasury.
Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue new shares and to Political, Economic and Governance: Administrative risks, repurchase shares for cancellation will be put to shareholders such as the imposition of restrictions on the free movement for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
These risks are discussed by the Board on a regular basis.
The full text of these Resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 59 and 60.
Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: A sudden departure of the investment manager or several members During the year the Company issued 7,261,080 Ordinary shares of the investment management team could result in a for a total consideration of 33,424,000 on the conversion of short-term deterioration in investment performance.
Since the year end, a further Manager takes steps to reduce the likelihood of such an 5,021 Ordinary shares have been issued for a total event by ensuring appropriate succession planning and consideration of 27,000.
20 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 the adoption of a team based approach, as well as special associates and the key elements designed to provide efforts to retain key personnel.
effective internal control are included within the Risk Management and Internal Control section of the Corporate Discount: A disproportionate widening of the discount Governance report on page 29. relative to the Companys peers could result in loss of value for shareholders.
The Board regularly discusses discount Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include policy and has set parameters for the Manager and the market price risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
Further Companys broker to follow.
details are disclosed in note 22 on pages 51 to 57.
Change of Corporate Control of the Manager: The Board Future Developments holds regular meetings with senior representatives of The future development of the Company is much dependent JPMAM in order to obtain assurance that the Manager upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the continues to demonstrate a high degree of commitment light of economic and equity market developments in the to its investment trusts business through the provision countries in which it invests.
The Investment Manager of significant resources.
discusses the outlook in his report on pages 6 and7.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify Management of the Company as an investment trust, the Company must comply with Section 1158.
Details of the Companys approval are The Manager and Company Secretary is JPMorgan Asset given under Business of the Company on page 18.
Should Management UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMAM, is employed the Company breach Section 1158, it might lose investment under a contract terminable in one years notice unless notice trust status and, as a consequence, gains within the is given as a result of poor investment performance, in which Companys portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
case the contract can be terminated on six months notice.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually If the Company wishes to terminate the contract on shorter monitored by JPMAM and the results reported to the Board notice, the balance of remuneration is payable by way of each month.
The Company must also comply with the compensation.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and, since its shares JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
dealing and custodian services to the Company.
A breach of the Companies Act could result in the Company and or the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal Management and Performance Fees proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could result in the Companys shares being suspended from The management fee is charged at the rate of 1.0% per annum listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Board of the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
The fee is relies on the services of its Company Secretary, JPMAM, and calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
Investments on which its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the JPMAM earns a fee are excluded from the calculation and Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and DTRs.
therefore attract no management fee.
Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details In addition the Manager receives a performance fee equivalent of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance to 10% of any outperformance of the Companys net asset best practice, including information on relations with value NAV per share on an undiluted total return basis over shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance the Companys benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets report on pages 25 to 30.
Index with net dividends reinvested, in sterling terms, over the period since the last performance fee was earned.
Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs The performance fee is calculated at the end of the Companys accounting, dealing or payments systems or the custodians financial year and charged to its capital account in the annual records could prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of financial statements.
However, an estimate is accrued on a the Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board monthly basis and reflected in the Companys published NAV monitors the services provided by JPMAM and its per share.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 21 Directors Report continued The amount of performance fee earned and paid to the Payment Policy Manager each year is subject to the following conditions: It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all Any performance fee earned in a given year is divided into business and therefore there are no standard payment terms.
two categories: that which can be offset offsetable by In general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on underperformance in future years: and that which cannot which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to non-offsetable.
As at 30th June 2013, the Company had no outstanding trade creditors 2012: none.
The non-offsetable fee that can be earned in any one year is capped at 0.75% of the Companys average monthly total Directors assets less current liabilities for the year.
In a year when the Company produces a negative NAV total return per share, The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the the non-offsetable fee earned in that year is provided for year, together with their beneficial interests in the Companys but not paid.
In a year when the Company produces a share capital, are given below: positive NAV total return per share, the Company will pay 30th June 2013 1st July 2012 to the Manager all non-offsetable fees earned in that year Ordinary Subscription Ordinary Subscription and those accrued from previous years, subject to the Directors Shares Shares Shares Shares restriction below.
David Gamble 3,781 756 3,781 756 The maximum fee that can be paid to JPMAM in any one Anatole Kaletsky 4,203 840 4,203 840 year is capped at 0.75% of the Companys average monthly Nigel Kenny 3,500 3,500 total assets less current liabilities for the year.
Percy Mistry 10,000 8,000 5,000 The offsetable fee is uncapped and equal to any fees Alan Saunders 6,000 6,000 earned in excess of the 0.75% cap.
Until paid i. e. in a year when the NAV total return per share is zero or positive, There have been no changes in these holdings reported since these fees are capable of being absorbed by any the year end.
Sarah Arkle was appointed a Director with effect from The performance fee outperformance calculation restarts at 1st September 2013. the end of a period when outperformance of the benchmark In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all has been achieved and a performance fee earned.
Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting At 30th June 2013, a cumulative non-offsetable performance and, being eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment.
This amount, together with The Nomination Committee, having considered their the cumulative non-offsetable performance fee of 1,786,000 qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board and brought forward from the previous financial year, gives a total its committees, confirms that each Director continues to be fee of 4,997,000, which is now payable.
effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and the Board recommends to shareholders that they be reappointed.
Going Concern Director Indemnification and Insurance The Directors believe that having considered the Companys investment objective see page 18, risk management policies As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the see pages 51 to 57, capital management policies and Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a procedures see page 58, the nature of the portfolio and qualifying third party indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of expenditure projections, the Company has adequate resources, the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnities were in place an appropriate financial structure and suitable management during the year and as at the date of this report.
arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they consider that indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the going liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no concern basis in preparing the accounts.
cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
22 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Disclosure of information to Auditors It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new shares or to sell Treasury shares to participants purchasing In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the shares through the JPMorgan savings products and also to Company at the time when this report was approved: other investors when the Directors consider that it is in the best a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues are only made audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of at prices greater than the net asset value the NAV, they which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys administrative expenses, other than the management fee b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought which is charged on the value of the Companys assets, over a to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for of any relevant audit information and to establish that the investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
The Company currently holds 2,896,122 shares in the capital of The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in the Company in Treasury.
The full text of the resolutions is set accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 59.
Act 2006. ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation Independent Auditors resolution 13 The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys  LLP have expressed their willingness issued Ordinary share capital and up to 14.99% of the to continue in office as Auditors to the Company and a Companys issued Subscription shares, granted by resolution proposing their reappointment and authorising the shareholders at the 2012 AGM will expire on 11th May 2014, Directors to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year unless renewed prior to that time.
The Directors consider that will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
the renewing of the authority is in the interests of shareholders as a whole, as in the case of the Ordinary shares, the Annual General Meeting repurchase of shares at a discount to the underlying NAV NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR enhances the NAV of the remaining Ordinary shares.
If you are in any doubt as to the action Resolution 13 gives the Company authority to repurchase its you should take, you should seek your own personal financial own issued Ordinary shares and Subscription shares in the advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and The authority limits the number of shares that could be Markets Act 2000. purchased to a maximum of: i 17,883,494 Ordinary shares: Resolutions relating to the following items of special business and ii 1,523,669 Subscription shares, representing will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting approximately 14.99% of the Companys issued Ordinary AGM : shares and issued Subscription shares, as at 3rd October 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory document.
The authority also sets minimum and maximum pre-emption rights resolutions 11 and 12 prices.
The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to issue up to 5,965,141 new Ordinary shares for cash up to an If resolution 13 is passed at the AGM it is the Companys current aggregate nominal amount of 1,491,285 such amount being intention to hold in Treasury any shares it may repurchase equivalent to 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital pursuant to the authority granted to it for possible re-issue at a excluding Treasury shares as at the last practicable date premium to NAV.
This policy is kept under review by the Board.
before the publication of this document.
This authority will As at 3rd October 2013 being the latest practicable date prior expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2014 to the publication of this document, there were no warrants or unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
options over Ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 23 Directors Report continued other than the 10,164,574 Subscription shares in issue each of Subscription shareholders entitled thereto on a pro rata basis, which gives the holder thereof the right to subscribe for one provided that entitlements to less than 5 would be retained new Ordinary share which represent 8.5% of the Companys for the benefit of the Company.
If the authority to repurchase the As at 3rd October 2013 being the latest practicable date prior Companys Ordinary shares was exercised in full and the to the publication of this document the closing mid-market authority to repurchase Subscription shares not exercised at price of an Ordinary share was 562p compared to the exercise all then the Subscription shares would represent 10.0% of the price of the Subscription shares of 543p and 10,164,574 Companys issued Ordinary share capital.
Subscription shares were in issue.
The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Annual It is not possible at the date of this document to know whether or General Meeting on pages 59 and 60.
Repurchases of Ordinary not the Final Subscription Trustee, if one is required, will exercise shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and will only the outstanding Subscription Share Rights after the Final be made in the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per Subscription Date, as described above.
If the Final Subscription share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the remaining shares as Trustee does not do so, all of the outstanding Subscription Share and when market conditions are appropriate.
Rights will lapse at the end of the 14 day period in which the Final iii Adoption of new Articles of Association resolution 14 Subscription Trustee is able to act and any Subscription shares in respect of which the Subscription Share Rights have not been Subscription Share proposals exercised before that date will remain in issue.
The outstanding Resolution 14 is a special resolution that will, if passed, replace Subscription shares will have no voting or dividend rights and the the Companys existing articles of association the Existing only remaining right attaching to those shares would be the Articles with new articles the New Articles.
The only entitlement, on a winding-up of the Company, to their nominal material changes that will be effected by the adoption of the value of 1p per share.
New Articles relate to the Companys Subscription shares, Notwithstanding that the outstanding Subscription shares which have a final exercise date of 31st July 2014.
The adoption would no longer have any purpose or meaningful rights, of the New Articles is conditional on the passing by HM Revenue & Customs has indicated that it will regard the Subscription shareholders of the special resolution to be outstanding Subscription shares as Ordinary share capital for proposed at the Subscription shareholder General Meeting, the purposes of Section 1119 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 which will be held immediately after the AGM.
because the Subscription shares do not confer any entitlement Whilst the Subscription shares are currently in the money, to a dividend at a fixed rate.
Accordingly, in order to maintain there is no guarantee that this will remain the case during the the Companys UK investment trust status, it would be period prior to 31st July 2014 and that all the Subscription necessary for the Company to maintain the existing listing of Share Rights will be exercised.
If some Subscription Share the outstanding Subscription shares on the Official List and to Rights remain unexercised after the final exercise date, the trade on the main market for listed securities of the London Existing Articles require the appointment of a Final Stock Exchange.
Subscription Trustee, who will act on behalf of the Subscription Since the outstanding Subscription shares would have no shareholders if any who have not exercised their Subscription purpose or meaningful rights the Board is proposing to adopt Share Rights.
If, in the opinion of the Final Subscription Trustee, the New Articles, which would provide for a mechanism to the net proceeds of the sale after the deduction of all costs and allow for the outstanding Subscription shares to be converted expenses incurred by the trustee including its fees will exceed into Deferred shares and then repurchased for a nominal the costs of exercising the Subscription Share Rights, the Final amount and cancelled.
This would avoid the need to maintain a Subscription Trustee shall exercise all the outstanding listing for the outstanding Subscription shares and would Subscription Share Rights within 14 days of the final exercise ensure that, following the repurchase and cancellation of the date and sell the resulting Ordinary shares in the market.
In Deferred shares, the Companys issued share capital would those circumstances, the Final Subscription Trustee would comprise only Ordinary shares.
distribute the net proceeds of the sale to the former 24 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
