Business review Business review In this section we review the DigiFab is used when life-threatening Profit contribution performance and trends in our three toxicity or overdose occur following operating segments: we give an overview digoxin administration.
The number 55.4m 12 13 of our business activities and the of global digoxin prescriptions is fairly 39.4m 11 12 business environment: we include a static from year-to-year at around 16 detailed financial review and corporate million globally, with between 1% and responsibility report: and we provide an 4% of patients experiencing toxicity.
Through educational activities, we aim A strong performance in to ensure that physicians are aware Speciality Pharmaceuticals Performance in 2012 13 of the signs of life-threatening digoxin BTG has delivered a strong financial and toxicity and that it is treated when resulted in a 41% increase operational performance in 2012 13. detected.
We are also seeking to extend in pre-investment profit The financial review on pages 27 to 31 the geographical approvals of the contribution.
gives the results in detail, and on page product, or to make it available on a 26 we describe progress against the named patient basis where achieving key financial and non-financial indicators regulatory approval is not practical.
we use to monitor overall business performance.
Below we describe the Voraxaze is approved in the US to performance and trends in our three treat life-threatening toxicity following operating segments.
treatment with the chemotherapeutic high-dose methotrexate, which we estimate affects around 200 to 300 Specialty Pharmaceuticals patients in the US each year.
We are exploring additional regulatory approvals In the US we now sell three marketed in other geographies and seek to make products, CroFab, DigiFab and the product available on a named patient Voraxaze, through our Acute Care field basis where appropriate.
Whereas CroFab is only sold in the US, DigiFab Specialty Pharmaceuticals is a highly and Voraxaze are sold through partners cash-generative business segment.
in other countries where approved or We anticipate that revenue from the available on a named patient basis.
current product portfolio has the potential to grow annually at a rate of Revenues in this segment grew from mid-to-high single digits on average.
A strong CroFab Revenue growth above this level would performance was enhanced by reflect the addition of new products, wholesalers rebuilding inventory from which would also be expected to the comparatively low levels held in the enhance commercial operating previous year.
to grow, in part due to continued geographic expansion and a price We currently have one late-stage increase.
Voraxaze sales were product in the pipeline: uridine significantly higher than in the previous triacetate, which is being developed year following US approval and the US by Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation.
This is another antidote, a potential treatment for life-threatening toxicity All of these products address markets following administration of the bounded by the number of toxic events.
In the case of CroFab, there are on If the US New Drug Application NDA average 5,500 treated envenomations is submitted as expected around per annum in the US: our goal is to mid-2014, with a priority review this ensure every bite that needs treating could result in approval and launch is treated optimally in terms of initial by the end of 2014. dosing and maintenance.
Business review 17 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review continued Profit contribution Interventional Medicine We aim to seek Humanitarian Device Exemptions HDEs in the US for In the US we now sell our embolising PRECISION Bead and PARAGON Bead, 13.0m 12 13 Bead products, which are used to treat novel drug-device combination products 6.8m 11 12 liver tumours, and Brachytherapy that are pre-loaded with appropriate products, which are used to treat chemotherapeutics, for treating patients early-stage prostate cancer, directly with uveal melanoma metastases and The transition to direct through a team of 20 account managers.
intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, The business is supported by 12 respectively.
HDE approvals are based US sales has increased medical science liaisons.
The products on demonstrated safety and probable the profit contribution in are sold in other territories through clinical benefit demonstrated in distribution partners: we are seeking to exploratory studies in niche indications Interventional Medicine expand their geographical availability by where there is currently no treatment by91%.
pursuing additional regulatory approvals option.
Subject to ongoing dialogue with in key markets such as Asia, working the FDA.
The HDE submissions, which with appropriate local partners.
have 75 day review cycles, are expected during H2 2013.
Interventional Medicine revenues increased from 28.7m to 36.1m.
We will continue to fund investigator-led The switch to direct sales of LC Bead studies to explore use in different in the US has gone well.
Product that patient populations with primary or was in the supply chain from the metastatic liver cancer.
In addition to previous distribution arrangement has proposing certain studies ourselves, now been depleted, and ordering we also invite physicians to submit patterns from customers have proposals to us for funding to conduct normalised.
studies which are intended to inform our future development strategy.
We also Over the nearto medium-term, we expect intend to generate data from larger-scale underlying low double-digit annual growth randomised, controlled clinical trials for our bead products.
This is expected which, if successful, would support to result from the general increasing expanded approvals such as pre-market trend towards using loco-regional approvals PMAs in specific indications.
therapies to treat liver tumours and from the continued generation of clinical data In primary liver cancer we are planning supporting the use of transarterial studies in earlier-stage patients to chemoembolisation TACE in patients maintain their eligibility for transplant, with liver cancer.
TACE is currently and in later-stage patients to explore the included as the standard of care for use of the Beads in combination with intermediate-stage patients in guidelines sorafenib, the current standard of care such as the Barcelona Centre Liver chemotherapeutic for advanced-stage Cancer staging system for hepatocellular primary liver cancer.
We are finalising the carcinoma HCC, the most common designs of appropriate studies and aim form of primary liver cancer.
to start one study, subject to regulatory approvals, by the end of 2013.
Expanding During the year, we outlined a planned the use of our Beads from intermediateseries of investments designed to expand stage patients to earlierand later-stage further the indicated uses of the Beads.
patients could approximately double the addressable patient population.
Business review 18 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review Profit contribution In secondary liver cancer, we recently Secondary manufacturing was completed the PARAGON II study in successfully transferred to our Farnham patients with metastatic colorectal site, where we have constructed a 40.1m 12 13 cancer mCRC to assess the safety of dedicated facility.
We are also reviewing data from a US Commercial activities are progressing Phase II study using our Beads loaded ahead of the anticipated US approval.
The Licensing & with irinotecan in combination with These include pricing and systemic chemotherapy FOLFOX-DEBIRI reimbursement research, physician Biotechnology segment in patients with mCRC.
TACE is not research and planning for the delivered a strong profit currently indicated for use in patients recruitment of a dedicated PEM sales with mCRC and success in this study team.
There are approximately 1,000 contribution despite the would open up a significant new private vein clinics in the US, which expected loss of BeneFix opportunity for further development of we estimate can be served by a sales the Beads.
revenues from the second half of the year.
Sales of our Brachytherapy products We estimate the global peak sales were slightly lower than in the previous potential of PEM to be $500m.
Around year, which was a good performance half of this is represented by the US in a challenging market that declined by reimbursed sector, which will be our first around 20%.
US healthcare reform has target market following approval.
The resulted in fewer men receiving prostate balance relates to self-pay markets in specific antigen PSA tests with fewer the US and in other countries where subsequent referrals for treatment.
there are established self-pay markets for healthcare products.
During the year we completed a review of options for CellMed, which we acquired with Biocompatibles.
Having Licensing & Biotechnology reviewed manufacturing options for our novel pre-loaded Bead products, we have Revenue in the Licensing & decided to refocus the CellMed facility Biotechnology segment results renamed as BTG International Germany principally from royalties relating to GmbH primarily to support the sales of products that are subject to development and manufacturing of intellectual property and technology these products.
licence agreements between BTG and various partners.
BTG has no role in, There was good progress during the or influence over, those sales.
Royalties year with Varisolve PEM, which is vary but on average are around mid to under development to treat varicose high single digit percentages of partners veins.
Full data from the pivotal US sales revenues: the gross royalty Phase III trials, in which all endpoints amounts received by BTG are usually were met, were presented at the shared on a 50:50 basis with originators American College of Phlebologys of the relevant intellectual property or annual meeting in November 2012. technology.
A NDA seeking approval of PEM as a comprehensive treatment to improve Revenue in this segment increased from the symptoms and appearance of 91.6m to 100.4m.
The continued varicose veins was submitted in growth of Johnson & Johnsons Zytiga February 2013 and accepted for full abiraterone acetate, used for treating review in April 2013.
We anticipate patients with metastatic castrationpotential US approval and product resistant prostate cancer, was the chief launch in H1 2014.
If approved, PEM driver of higher royalties.
will be the only comprehensive treatment for the symptoms and appearance of varicose veins in patients with great saphenous vein incompetence.
Business review 19 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review continued Over the medium-term, the performance Customer insights of this business segment will be strongly Our products are used by specialist influenced by Zytiga royalties and the groups of physicians with whom we potential 2013 EU and US approvals engage in a number of ways.
We of Sanofis Lemtrada alemtuzumab, promote the approved uses of our which is under review as a treatment products: we provide training in the for patients with multiple sclerosis.
use of our products: we offer dedicated medical support to physicians regarding Attrition rates are high in drug the safety, efficacy or use of our products development and, during the year, an and to provide data when requested: we experimental treatment for severe invite proposals for funding to explore sepsis, AZD9773 CytoFab, did not the use of our products in different achieve the endpoints in a Phase II patient populations and we approach study being conducted by AstraZeneca.
physicians with our own ideas for Development, and the associated studies to invite them to participate.
In these interactions we gain valuable Overview and business model knowledge about how physicians use BTG is a specialist healthcare company our products in practice, why they might whose core purpose is to bring to market choose not to use our products in medical products that meet the needs of certain patient populations, where they specialist physicians and their patients.
require more data to support use, and We operate through three business where they see gaps in current areas: Specialty Pharmaceuticals, treatment options.
Our innovation team Interventional Medicine and Licensing specifically engages with customers & Biotechnology.
and the wider scientific and medical community to gain insights into In the following pages we expand on treatment practice and trends and the schematic of our business model to identify unmet medical needs.
We describe our core activities and progress against We supplement these insights from our medium-term corporate priorities.
customers and others with formal We then comment on the key internal market research, using the information and external factors that enable and to identify potential new product influence our performance and opportunities.
Acquisition and development Core activities The new opportunities we identify The Group acquires, develops, might be based around current products manufactures and commercialises and platforms, or they may require specialist medical products, using acquisition or in-licensing activities.
We insights from customers and others conduct the latter through a dedicated to identify new business and product business development team, supported opportunities.
by our medical, regulatory, development and commercial teams.
Prior to commencing a full development programme, we undertake feasibility studies, which are led by our innovation team.
If these show promise, we commence full development programmes.
At this stage we conduct non-clinical and clinical studies to assess factors including the safety and efficacy of our pharmaceutical and medical device product candidates.
Business review 20 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review We liaise with regulators over the Commercialisation O ur innovation team development pathways for our products We sell our products directly in the US engages with customers and their approvability.
Our development and through partners elsewhere.
This and the wider scientific personnel manage these activities model is most financially efficient but and oversee the contract research we will continue to review options to sell and medical community organisations we contract to conduct directly in territories outside the US as to identify unmet many of our studies.
we build sufficient critical mass of product and sales to justify the medical needs.
Our business development team is also additional investment.
Peter Stratford seeking to in-licence or acquire additional Chief Technical Officer, products or late-stage programmes In the US we sell CroFab, DigiFab Interventional Medicine that we can sell through our existing and Voraxaze through a 19-person sales channels, or potentially through Acute Care sales force.
We sell Bead a new sales team that can be supported Block, LC Bead and our Brachytherapy by our existing commercial infrastructure products through a separate 32-person if the potential financial returns support Interventional Medicine team of account that investment.
DigiFab, Voraxaze, Bead Block and DC Bead Manufacturing are sold through distributors outside the Manufacturing of pharmaceuticals US where approved or through namedand medical devices is highly regulated patient protocols.
and requires specialist skills and knowledge.
Our manufacturing activities Although no longer a core part of our have increased significantly following the activities, we may also commercialise acquisition of Protherics and programmes that we do not intend to Biocompatibles, and as PEM has develop into products to sell ourselves, progressed towards potential regulatory or products that are non-core.
may be retained assets from the history of BTG or the companies it has acquired, We manufacture the ovine polyclonal or they may be non-core parts of antibodies CroFab and DigiFab.
The supply chains are complex, involving raising antibodies in dedicated sheep Strategy and governance flocks in Australia, processing and The Board of directors sets the strategic bulk substance manufacture at our direction for the Company, monitors manufacturing plant in Wales, then performance and standards of behaviour filling and freeze-drying by a third-party and maintains appropriate corporate in the US.
governance, compliance and risk management procedures.
Further details We also manufacture our embolic and are contained in the corporate governance drug-eluting beads at our Farnham site, report on page 48, the risk management with additional activity supporting our update on page 32 and the corporate novel pre-loaded Beads taking place at responsibility report on page 36. our site in Germany.
We manufacture our bespoke Brachytherapy products in Oxford, CT, USA.
We contract out certain aspects of our manufacturing supply chain, though we remain responsible for meeting regulatory and quality requirements and for the overall safety of our products.
We are continuing to invest in upgrading our manufacturing operations and capabilities.
Business review 21 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review continued W e focus on niche market Our strategy to deliver long-term value is The cash we generate enables us to to be a focused, integrated, international fund product acquisition opportunities of segments where we believe specialist healthcare business.
As a growing business we can build leading market focus on niche medical areas in which with a maturing financial profile, in April we can build leading market positions.
2013 we put in place a 60m multipositions.
By integrating our research and currency revolving credit facility for a John Sylvester development, manufacturing, sales and period of three years by April 2016, as Chief Commercial Officer, marketing and business development yet undrawn but available to fund Interventional Medicine activities, we aim to capture the full day-to-day working capital requirements value of our marketed products and should our cash reserves substantially development programmes.
reduce as a result of investing activities.
We operate internationally, selling Marketplace and competition directly in the US and working elsewhere We choose to operate in niche markets with local partners.
We undertake and selected geographies within the regulatory and development activities global healthcare market, which share to expand the geographic and approved certain characteristics.
We choose to operate in specialist healthcare These include that the physician segments, so that we can operate with customer groups are relatively small and small sales forces, develop strong can be serviced by small sales forces relationships with our customers and and support functions.
In addition, build leading market positions.
market sizes for particular specialisms are generally modest as products often BTGs annual strategic planning cycle address relatively small patient commences with horizon scanning populations: hence competition from activities.
These seek to understand medium and larger companies is lower.
trends in the global healthcare In addition, the size and cost of clinical environment and changes in the trials to gain approval are manageable competitive landscape, so that for a company of BTGs scale and opportunities and challenges to our resources, and reimbursement can business can be identified.
The Board usually be achieved as the products and Leadership Team review corporate often address unmet needs.
strategy and plans in light of this information.
Corporate priorities are Our current focus areas are Specialty defined for the short and medium-term, Pharmaceuticals, principally antidote which are cascaded into divisional, team products, and Interventional Medicine, and individual goals and used for budget principally interventional oncology development see page 26. products for treating tumours in the liver and prostate.
Resources and relationships Financial resources Within Specialty Pharmaceuticals, we BTG ended the 2012 13 year with have three marketed products: CroFab, cash and cash equivalents of 158.7m, which is currently the only approved having generated 46.8m of cash in treatment for bites from North American the period.
We manage our financial crotalid snakes although one potential resources such that the cash we competitor is in development : DigiFab, generate will be sufficient to cover our which is the only approved and available overheads and planned development product for treating life-threatening expenditure, and to enable appropriate toxicity resulting from treatment with investment in growth activities such as digoxin: and Voraxaze, which is the only the acquisition of assets to expand our approved treatment for life-threatening portfolio of marketed products and toxicity due to renal impairment resulting development programmes.
from treatment with high-dose methotrexate.
Business review 22 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review The market opportunity for these BTG seeks to differentiate itself from Cash generation products relates to the number of competitors in the implantable oncology incidents that occur the number of device market in a number of ways.
46.8m 12 13 snake bites for CroFab and the number Wehave designed our beads to have 43.1m 11 12 of toxic events associated with digoxin technical advantages over competing and high-dose methotrexate use.
For example, we are growth is anticipated to be in the range developing beads that are pre-loaded mid to high single digits.
Overall growth with chemotherapeutic agents that will W e continue our track in this franchise would result from the eliminate the need for the pharmacist to record of strong cash addition of new products.
A potential load the beads in situ.
We recognise that generation during the year.
future product addition is uridine data from high-quality clinical studies is triacetate, under development for important to the physicians who manage Rolf Soderstrom treating toxicity associated with use patients with liver tumours, so we are Chief Financial Officer of the chemotherapeutic 5-FU.
There continuing to invest in investigator-led is no currently approved product in studies to generate data and we intend this indication.
to invest in pre-market approval studies to expand the approved indications for Within Interventional Medicine, our our products.
We also aim to provide the marketed products are: Bead Block best customer service and follow-up in and LC Bead, both used for embolising our sector.
hypervascularised tumours and arteriovenous malformations: DC Bead, The US remains one of the worlds used for chemoembolisation of largest markets for healthcare products hypervascularised tumours: and and go-to-market costs are lower than brachytherapy products, primarily in other fragmented markets such as implantable seeds used to deliver Europe.
Around 80% of BTGs total low-dose radiation to localised prostate revenues are currently denominated in tumours.
US dollars, making it our most important geographic market although a We estimate, based on our own sales proportion of our dollar-denominated and published data from other revenues, for example royalties on manufacturers of interventional oncology Zytiga, derive from worldwide sales products, that the global sales of these but are presented to BTG in dollars loco-regional treatments for liver cancer by a US-based licensee.
have experienced double-digit growth between 2007 and 2011, reaching Our strategy is to sell our products $188m at the end of 2011.
This market directly in the US, where we have opportunity would increase to $400m two sales forces, in Specialty with sustained 8% annual growth Pharmaceuticals and Interventional through 2021.
However, we believe the Medicine, and where we are preparing opportunity could exceed $800m by to set up a third sales force to support 2021, driven by the generation of new the launch of PEM, which is under review clinical data resulting in indication as a comprehensive treatment to expansion, geographic expansion, in reduce the symptoms and improve particular into important Asian markets the appearance of varicose veins.
where penetration rates are currently Outside the US we currently sell through very low, and product innovations that distributors, but we will review this as increase their usefulness to treating we build our product portfolio and our physicians.
Business review 23 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review continued While CroFab is used only in the As we look to acquire products and US, DigiFab and Voraxaze have the programmes from third-parties, we potential for worldwide sales.
DigiFab are usually in competition with other is now approved in Canada, Switzerland companies to acquire those assets.
and the UK, and following the US Weassess the financial returns and approval of Voraxaze we will work with strategic fit of all external opportunities, other regulators to seek to make and through a combination of both, Voraxaze available in a range of try to position ourselves as the most territories.
We believe there is significant scope Relationships to expand the geographic use of our We operate in a highly regulated Bead products.
In Asia, the underlying environment and are required to adhere incidence and prevalence of primary liver to specific regulations in addition to the cancer is several times higher than in legal and regulatory frameworks that western countries.
This primarily reflects apply to most businesses.
Some of the higher incidence in Asia of hepatitis, these relate to our relationships with a major cause of liver cancer.
stakeholders in the medical supply chain Penetration of interventional oncology including doctors, government officials devices into Asian markets is currently and agencies, patients, trade bodies, very low.
suppliers and the worldwide media.
BTG is working with partners in key BTGs policy is straightforward in that we Asian markets to gain approvals and will uphold the law and all regulations in reimbursement.
The approvals territories where we work, and we will act processes in Asian markets can be with transparency and integrity in our longer than in the US and EU.
The dealings with all our stakeholders.
Our potential economic burden to the Code of Conduct describes our approach healthcare systems in Asian countries in detail available via our website: from these new treatments is significant.
com about-us corporateTo control the growth of these costs, governance code-of-conduct.
other steps following approval usually include agreeing, or being assigned, a Our people price and limiting treatment or BTGs success relies on it attracting, reimbursement coverage to sub-sets of retaining and motivating talented people.
It is therefore anticipated that It is as important for us to employ it will take several years to realise the people who adhere to our values as it is significant potential of these products that they have the right technical skills within Asian markets.
We aim to foster a high-performance culture and have built In Japan, where our partner is Eisai, performance monitoring systems and DC Bead received regulatory approval rewards programmes to support that in April 2013.
We await pricing and goal.
reimbursement decisions and marketing approval.
In China our partner is We employ around 570 people in the UK, SciClone and our regulatory application US, Australia and Germany, the majority is under review by the Chinese regulator.
of whom are engaged in commercial, In South Korea, regulatory approval and research and development, limited reimbursement have been manufacturing and corporate and achieved, and we are working with our support roles.
local partner to try to extend reimbursement coverage.
Business review 24 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review For more information on our human and acquisitions and company resources policies see our corporate restructurings resulting in a large pool of responsibility report on pages 36 to 40 talented people who are looking for new and our remuneration report on pages opportunities.
People are also attracted 63 to 81. to BTG as a growing company that has strong core values and where they can Sustainability make a difference.
We are building a business that we believe is capable of delivering The industries we operate in are highly sustainable, profitable growth.
There is competition for strategy for this is to continue to develop acquiring good assets, recruiting our business as a specialist healthcare employees, being first to market with company focused on leadership in new product categories, developing specialty pharmaceuticals and products with better safety or efficacy to Interventional Medicine.
By focusing on specialist healthcare segments Sustainability is being achieved through usually means we face less competition.
continued focus on: strategic planning, so we can respond to opportunities and Our Specialty Pharmaceutical products challenges: research and development, currently have no competitor products, to bring new products to market and to whereas our interventional oncology expand the use of existing products: products sometimes compete with other manufacturing excellence, to assure products for use in certain patient the safety and efficacy of our products: populations.
Our strategy is to business development, to acquire or differentiate our products by generating in-licence new products and supportive clinical data.
programmes: financial discipline, to make efficient use of our resources to Healthcare reform has become a key drive growth and deliver shareholder external influence on our industry.
The value: and strong governance, so we ultimate goal is for governments and conduct all our affairs in a responsible, other payers to control expenditure, compliant way.
which is leading to pressures on pricing power and reimbursement.
We have Environment enhanced our capabilities to ensure The pharmaceutical and medical devices we can monitor and understand the industries are subject to many external potential impact of these reforms on our influences that we must monitor and business.
When reviewing new product react to.
Horizon-scanning is embedded development opportunities, we factor in into our strategic planning cycle and is healthcare reform and trends and intended to highlight changes in the progress only those opportunities we business environment so that we can believe are either aligned with trends develop appropriate strategies and or are relatively immune to them.
example of the former is PEM, our treatment for varicose veins, which we Our research, development, regulatory, believe meets the needs of payers in manufacturing and commercial activities the US to find a better value for money are all subject to specific regulations, treatment that can help contain the which requires us to have sophisticated rising cost of treating moderate to and extensive quality and compliance severe varicose veins as more patients systems and procedures in place and seek treatment.
Examples of the latter to recruit highly skilled and experienced are our antidote products, which have no employees.
The environment for competition and are used in potentially recruiting is good for BTG, with mergers life-threatening conditions.
Business review 25 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review continued Ou r Code of Conduct There are increasing societal pressures Key performance indicators and on healthcare companies to change corporate priorities is designed to promote their practice in areas such as The key financial indicators we use understanding of, and publication of all clinical trial data, to monitor performance are: revenue, access to medicines and treatments in gross margin, underlying operating adherence to, the ethical poorer communities, patient strategies profit and cash management.
Similar behaviours that we expect and the focus of development activities.
financial indicators are used in the We are guided by our values and Code Groups annual bonus scheme see the of all employees.
of Conduct, and we have made being a remuneration report on pages 63 to 81.
Louise Makin good corporate citizen one of our four Chief Executive Officer medium-term corporate priorities.
We BTGs corporate medium-term goals are are a small company in comparison to grouped into four categories: financial: the major pharmaceutical and device delivering products for our customers companies.
We are therefore unlikely and other stakeholders: enhancing to lead change, and our approach is to internal processes and capabilities: monitor such developments and make learning and growth.
Many of the changes where appropriate and objectives span a number of annual practicable for us.
We will report progress against each goal annually.
Corporate objectives Progress in 2012 13 Financial management I Achieve revenue, gross margin, I Delivered revenue of 233.7m profit and cash targets.
Delivering products for our key stakeholders I Submit PEM US NDA and prepare for I PEM US NDA accepted for review.
I Transition to direct US sales of I Build a leading position in the interventional oncology products fully interventional oncology space.
executed and clinical development I Maintain leadership in antidote rescue strategy defined.
therapies and expand Specialty I Strong performance: Voraxaze Pharmaceuticals business.
launched nationwide in the US.
I Identify and acquire new products to I Acquisition targets identified and complement existing franchises.
Internal processes capabilities I Focus R&D activities to best support I R & D reorganisation innovation growth in Interventional Medicine and function created.
I Launched  study I Be an excellent corporate citizen by policy: launched several Good Practice embedding compliance, quality and training initiatives.
Learning and growth I Enhance capabilities and capacity to I New hires made in commercial, support growth plans.
I Define and implement global I Strategy defined and implemented: manufacturing strategy to efficiently training modules launched.
support current business and deliver on growth strategy.
Business review 26 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
