The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 19 Directors Report The Directors present their report and audited financial - Gearing may be used when appropriate in order to statements for the year ended 31st January 2013. increase potential returns to shareholders.
Such gearing will be long-term in nature and will operate Business Review within a range of 10% net cash to 20% geared.
Business of the Company - The Company does not invest more than 15% of its The Company carries on business as an investment gross assets in other UK listed investment trust and was approved by HM Revenue & Customs companies including investment trusts.
as an investment trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, for the - The Company will not invest more than 10% of year ended 31st January 2012.
In the opinion of the assets in companies that themselves may invest Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted more than 15% of gross assets in UK listed its affairs so that it should continue to qualify as an investment companies.
investment trust under the HM Revenue & Customs qualifying rules.
Performance In the year to 31st January 2013, the Company Approval in previous years is subject to review produced a total return to shareholders of 29.0% and should there be any subsequent enquiry under a total return on net assets of 26.6%.
This compares Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
with the return on the Companys benchmark of The Company is an investment company within the 27.2%.
At 31st January 2013, the value of the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
Companys investment portfolio was 1,417 million.
The Company is not a close company for taxation The Investment Managers Report on pages 4 to 7 purposes.
includes a review of developments during the year as well as information on investment activity within the A review of the Companys activities and prospects is Companys portfolio.
given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 3, and in the Investment Managers Report on pages 4 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends to 7.
Gross total return for the year amounted to 306.3 million 2012: 71.1 million loss and net total Investment Objective return after deducting interest, management The Companys objective is to achieve long term expenses and taxation amounted to 289.4 million capital growth from a portfolio of UK medium and 2012: 88.4 million loss.
Distributable income for smaller companies.
the year amounted to 31.6 million 2012: 31.6 million.
The Directors have declared quarterly Investment Policies and Risk Management interim dividends totalling 36p 2012: 36.0p per In order to achieve its objective, the Company invests ordinary share for the year which totalled in a diversified portfolio and employs a Manager with 35.5 million 2012: 35.6 million.
The year end a strong focus on research that enables it to identify revenue reserve after allowing for these dividends what it believes to be the most attractive stocks in will amount to 11.7 million 2012: 15.6 million.
The Board has sought to manage the Companys risk Key Performance Indicators KPIs by imposing various investment limits and The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to restrictions.
These limits and restrictions may be monitor and assess the performance of the Company.
varied at any time by the Board at its discretion.
The principal KPIs are: Investment Limits and Restrictions Performance against the benchmark index - The Company invests in medium and smaller This is the most important KPI by which companies which are listed mainly on the London performance is judged.
- At time of purchase the maximum exposure to any individual stock is 8% of gross assets.
- Investment growth is emphasised, with long-term dividend growth at least in line with inflation.
20 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Directors Report continued Share price discount to net asset value NAV per Performance relative to Benchmark Index share Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st January 2003 The Board operates a share repurchase 120 programme that seeks to address imbalances in 115 supply and demand of the Companys shares within the market and thereby reduce the 110 volatility and absolute level of the discount to 105 NAV at which the Companys shares trade.
10.0 The Mercantile share price total return.
12.5 The benchmark is represented by the grey horizontal line.
Source: Morningstar, Russell Mellon CAPS.
400 350 Ongoing Charges 300 The Ongoing Charges represent the Companys 250 management fee and all other operating expenses, 200 excluding finance costs, expressed as a percentage 150 of the average of the daily net assets during the 100 year.
In previous years, the Total Expense Ratio TER was calculated, which The Mercantile net asset value total return.
represented the Companys management fee and The Mercantile share price total return.
other operating expenses excluding finance costs, Source: Morningstar, Russell Mellon CAPS.
expressed as a percentage of the average month end net assets during the year.
The Ongoing Performance against the Companys peers Charges for the year ended 31st January 2013 were The principal objective is to achieve capital 0.49% 2012: TER 0.51%.
The Board reviews each growth relative to the benchmark.
The Board also year an analysis which shows a comparison of the monitors the performance relative to a broad Companys Ongoing Charges and its main range of competitor funds.
expenses with those of its peers.
Share Capital Performance attribution The purpose of performance attribution analysis During the year the Company repurchased a total of is to assess how the Company achieved its 255,000 ordinary shares for cancellation nominal performance relative to its benchmark index, value 63,750.
This amount represented 0.26% of i. e. to understand the impact on the Companys the issued share capital at the beginning of the year.
relative performance of the various components As the shares were repurchased at a discount to the such as asset allocation and stock selection.
underlying net asset value NAV they enhanced the Details of the attribution analysis for the year NAV of the remaining shares.
The Company has ended 31st January 2013 are given in the repurchased no further shares for cancellation since Investment Managers Report on page 4. the year end.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 21 A resolution to renew the authority to repurchase Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could shares will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming result in the Companys shares being suspended Annual General Meeting.
from listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Board relies on the services of The Company did not issue any shares during the year its Company Secretary, JPMAM, to ensure and has not issued any shares since the year end.
compliance with The Companies Act and The UKLA Listing Rules.
Principal Risks With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: drawn up a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks Details of the Companys compliance with to the Company.
These key risks fall broadly under Corporate Governance best practice, including the following categories: information on relations with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance report on Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate pages 23 to 28. investment strategy, for example asset allocation or the level of gearing, may lead to underperformance Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs against the Companys benchmark index and peer accounting, dealing or payments systems or the companies, resulting in the Companys shares custodians records could prevent accurate trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages reporting and monitoring of the Companys these risks by diversification of investments financial position.
Details of how the Board through its investment restrictions and guidelines monitors the services provided by JPMAM and which are monitored and reported by the Manager.
its associates and the key elements designed to JPMAM provides the Directors with timely and provide effective risk management and internal accurate management information, including control are included within the Risk Management performance data and attribution analyses, revenue and Internal Control section of the Corporate estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder Governance report on pages 26 and 27. analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation Financial: The financial risks faced by the and results of the investment process with the Company include market price risk, interest rate Investment Managers, who attend all Board risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Bank meetings, and reviews data which show statistical counterparties are subject to daily credit analysis measures of the Companys risk profile.
The by the Manager and regular consideration at Investment Managers employ the Companys meetings of the Board.
In addition the Board gearing tactically, within a strategic range set by receives regular reports on the Managers the Board.
monitoring and mitigation of credit risks on share Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to transactions carried out by the Company.
Further qualify as an investment trust, the Company must details are disclosed in note 23 on pages 47 to 51. comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158.
Details of the Companys Future Developments approval are given under Business of the Clearly, the future development of the Company is Company above.
Were the Company to breach dependent upon the success of the Companys Section 1158, it might lose investment trust status investment strategy in the light of economic and equity and, as a consequence, gains within the market developments.
The Investment Managers Companys portfolio could be subject to Capital discuss the outlook in their report on page 7.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria Management of the Company are continually monitored by JPMAM and the The Manager and Secretary is JPMorgan Asset results reported to the Board each month.
The Management UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMAM is Company must also comply with the provisions of employed under a contract terminable on six months the Companies Act and, since its shares are listed notice, without penalty.
If the Company wishes to on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance Rules and Disclosure & Transparency Rules of remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
A breach of the Companies Act could result in the Company and or the Directors being JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan fined or the subject of criminal proceedings.
Chase Bank which, through other subsidiaries, also 22 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Directors Report continued provides banking, dealing and custodian services to 1st February 2012 the Company.
31st January or at date of The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the 2013 appointment Manager on an annual basis.
The evaluation includes Hamish Leslie Melville 30,000 30,000 consideration of the investment strategy and process Sir Richard Beckett 4,100 4,100 of the Manager, performance against the benchmark over the long term and the support that the The Right Hon.
In the year under The Earl of Halifax n a 2,000 1 review the Board retained an independent expert Helen James 650 650 assist with the review of the Manager.
Following the Sandy Nairn 5,000 5,000 outcome of this review, the Board agreed with the Charles Peel n a 33,100 Manager changes to the investment management Ian Russell 5,000 5,000 team and reporting practices.
As a result of this 2 Jeremy Tigue 5,176 0 process, the Board confirms that it is satisfied that 1 non-benefical holding the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the 2 on 4th February 2013 Jeremy Tigue acquired 26 shares through interests of shareholders as a whole.
the Companys Dividend Re-investment Plan, taking his shareholding at the date of this report to 5202.
Management Fee No other changes to the Directors holdings have The management fee is charged at the rate of 0.5% of been recorded at the date of this report.
the value of the Companys market capitalisation and is calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
If the Company The Nomination Committee and the Chairman, invests in funds managed or advised by JPMAM, or any having considered their qualifications, performance of its associated companies, they are excluded from the and contribution to the Board and its committees, calculation and therefore attract no fee.
confirms that each Director proposed for re-election continues to be effective and demonstrates Going Concern commitment to the role and the Board recommends The Directors believe that having considered the to shareholders that they be re-elected.
Companys investment objective see page 19, risk management policies see page 21, capital Director Indemnification and Insurance management policies and procedures see page 52, As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is projections, that the Company has adequate a qualifying third party indemnity, as defined by resources, an appropriate financial structure and Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
This was in suitable management arrangements in place to place throughout the financial year and also as at the continue in operational existence for the foreseeable date of approval of these financial statements.
For these reasons, they consider that there is An insurance policy is maintained by the Company reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the going which indemnifies the Directors of the Company concern basis in preparing the accounts.
against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no cover against fraudulent or Payment Policy dishonest actions.
It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all business and therefore there are no standard Disclosure of Information to Auditors payment terms.
In general, the Company agrees with In the case of each of the persons who are Directors its suppliers the terms on which business will take of the Company at the time when this report was place and it is the Companys policy to abide by approved: these terms.
As at 31st January 2013, the Company had no outstanding trade creditors.
a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the Directors Companies Act of which the Companys Auditors The Directors of the Company during the year and are unaware: and subsequent to the year end, together with their b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that beneficial interests in the Companys ordinary share he she ought to have taken as a Director in order capital, were:
