BUSINESS REVIEW SUMMARY Emerging Markets five largest power producers.
It provides Business review long-term savings solutions through a tied adviser force and a telesales company.
Old Mutual Emerging Markets operates in Customers include Guodian employees 13 countries across Africa, Latin America and affluent bank customers.
We provide individuals, businesses, corporates and institutions with long-term Old Mutual Kotak Mahindra is our 26%-owned savings, protection and investment solutions joint venture in India with Kotak Mahindra Bank, in these geographies and through these providing life insurance, retirement pensions, business segments: savings and investments.
South Africa Competitive Retail Affluent offers a wide range of wealth creation and protection products, as well as environment asset management, to customers in the middleRalph Mupita income to high net worth bracket.
In total life sales we rank first among South African peers including Sanlam, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Mass Foundation offers a wide range of Liberty, Discovery and MMI, with over EMERGING MARKETS savings and protection products to customers 20% market share.
in the lower income and foundation market, as well as loans through its joint venture, Our key competitors in African markets are Solid operational Old Mutual Finance.
our large South African insurance peers, with limited competition from the large delivery and strategic Corporate segment caters for the needs of international insurers in selected markets.
institutional and corporate investors through progress in Africa We have dominant market share positions in retirement and group risk products.
the Southern African Development Community through a challenging SADC region, while our businesses in East Old Mutual Investment Group OMIG economic environment.
and West Africa are developing rapidly from is a multi-boutique asset management and a relatively small base.
investment business that offers clients access to a full array of investment offerings, styles In Mexico, we we have a strong Corporate and asset classes.
Its priority is to deliver business, with 6% market share in Voluntary performance through focus.
pensions, and in Colombia, we have over 33% of the voluntary unit trust market.
In India, Africa excluding SA Kotak Life Insurance ranks eighth out of 23 life Old Mutual currently has operations in Namibia, JVs.
In China the Old Mutual-Guodian JV Zimbabwe, Malawi, Kenya, Swaziland, ranks fifth out of 26 life JVs.
Nigeria and Ghana where we offer various corporate and retail solutions in the areas of life and savings, property and casualty, asset Market trends management and banking.
Our products are In recent years there has been a continuing punctuated by sound financial advice, efficient shift in the South African affluent market from service and value for money to our customers.
traditional life products to investment products Asia and Latin America including unit trusts.
In Colombia we operate in the affluent In the mass foundation market, funeral policies market, providing mandatory and voluntary sold through tied agents form the bulk of sales, pensions, investment and saving solutions, although sales of investment and savings offshore investment products and institutional products are rising rapidly as incomes asset management.
In Mexico we focus on providing the corporate Protection sales continue to be a significant market with voluntary private pension plans part of the industry, reflecting low levels of and providing the retail market with long-term public provision and relatively high mortality savings and risk products, solutions and advice.
and morbidity compared to other middleAIVA is a newly acquired distribution platform income countries.
based in Uruguay, spanning the Latin American In the corporate market there has been a shift region.
It provides services to a network of away from traditional employee benefits IFAs, wealth managers and other institutions.
towards umbrella offerings and a consolidation Old Mutual-Guodian is a 50 50 joint venture of smaller, standalone administration platforms.
in China with Guodian, one of the countrys Old Mutual plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Within OMSA, our objectives include Performance Outlook capturing growth in the Mass Foundation and Retail Affluent segments and improving Pre-tax AOP increased by 15% 12% including We continue to explore suitable targets for profitability in the Corporate segment.
LTIR to R8.9 billion, benefiting from the acquisition or partnership that will further positive impact of higher equity market levels support our growth in Africa.
The African economies are robust and have high on asset-based fees.
economic growth rates and positive demographic We have set very clear targets for our trends.
The operating environment is increasingly NCCF improved from R16.2 billion to R24.7 businesses.
These include growing customers favourable, with reduced political risk and billion, mainly due to strong sales in the South to more than 9 million by 2015, maintaining improvements in transparency and rule of law.
African retail businesses, higher bank channel overall RoE in the 20% to 25% range, and sales in China and improved net inflows in growing profits in Africa excl.
SA including In this environment, our heritage and location OMIG, particularly due to the non-recurrence Property & Casualty results to reach 15% position us uniquely to build Africas financial of the significant Public Investment Corporation of South Africas profits by 2015. services champion.
We have allocated up to withdrawal that took place in 2012.
R5 billion to achieve this, with R700 million already committed.
FUM increased by 16% to R838 billion, due mainly to increased NCCF and strong equity We will build the framework by: market performance, with the investment In the SADC, growing our business through returns of international assets enhanced by the greater collaboration and new products depreciation of the rand.
and distribution channels, and continuously Gross sales increased by 9% to R165 billion.
In examining whether this could be improved South Africa, we achieved strong growth in the by greater integration on a local level: Retail Affluent and Corporate businesses, up In West Africa, continuing to develop our by 21% and 17% respectively, due mainly to recently acquired businesses and examining excellent growth in single premiums.
further inorganic opportunities: and Momentum continued in Mass Foundation, In East Africa, integrating our recent which achieved growth of 14%.
Asian sales acquisition of Faulu and seeking opportunities doubled as our joint venture in China for partnerships across all our business lines expanded its bank channel presence from to further embed our presence.
1,000 approved outlets at the beginning of the year to 1,397 at the end.
In India, we will continue to grow through our JV with Kotak Mahindra, and in China through Old Mutual-Guodian.
In Latin America we will Strategic direction continue to build on our strong businesses in A key strategic priority of the Old Mutual Colombia and Mexico, and particularly the Group is to be the leading and most trusted momentum we have created in building our financial services group through increasing retail mass business in Mexico.
We will also alignment between its strong South African continue to increase our distribution reach businesses.
Old Mutual South Africa OMSA through AIVA.
will therefore work more closely with Nedbank and Mutual & Federal through increased CASE STUDY cross-selling and leveraging distribution across the Group companies.
Long-term education Rm investment Highlights 2013 2012 Change In 2013 the Old Mutual South Africa AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 8,911 7,955 12% Foundation launched a flagship education NCCF Rbn 24.7 16.2 52% project with an investment of at least FUM Rbn 837.9 724.6 16% R350 million over seven years to 2019.
The Gross sales 164,995 152,041 9% project seeks to improve the performance 2 Pre-tax FUM Operating Margin 114bps 118bps 4 bps of South African secondary schools with 100% of iWYZE is now recorded within Property & Casualty rather than Emerging Markets.
Comparative information emphasis on maths, science and English.
By for 2012 has been restated June 2013 almost 1,800 teachers, principals 2 Pre-tax Operating Margin is calculated as pre-tax AOP divided by average FUM and school governing body members had benefited from the projects initial phase in the Eastern Cape and Free State.
39 BUSINESS REVIEW SUMMARY Nedbank Competitive position Business review and competitors Structure and services South Africa has a strong four pillar banking Nedbank provides a wide range of wholesale industry with Standard Bank holding 25% of and retail banking services and a growing the total advances, First Rand 22%, Barclays insurance, asset management and wealth Africa 21% and Nedbank 19%.
management offering through five main Nedbank Group is the fourth largest business clusters: Nedbank Retail, Nedbank South African bank measured on market Business Banking, Nedbank Capital, Nedbank capitalisation, total assets and headline Corporate and Nedbank Wealth.
We are a top two corporate bank, positioned as a bank for all, servicing multiple a market leader in commercial property market segments.
finance and our repositioned retail bank Mike Brown Nedbank Group is listed on the Johannesburg has gained 2.2 million customers over the and Namibian Stock Exchanges, with a market CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER past few years to 6.4 million.
capitalisation of over R100 billion at the end NEDBANK Through our pan-African banking alliance of 2013.
Old Mutual has a majority with Ecobank, we give our customers access shareholding and owned 52% of Nedbank to the largest banking network across Africa.
Solid performance We also hold leadership positions off strong foundations Geographic presence in sustainability, transformation and in a more difficult community development.
Headquartered in Sandton, Johannesburg, the banking group has a regional branch environment.
network of over 1,050 staffed outlets across Performance South Africa, banking subsidiaries in 6 African Nedbank Group performed well for the year countries of Namibia, Lesotho, Malawi, ended 31 December 2013.
The results reflect Swaziland and Zimbabwe, as well as an initial the  economic shareholding of 36.4% in Banco Unico environment offset by delivery on our strategic targeted for completion by the end of the first focus areas and continued internal momentum in quarter of 2014 in Mozambique.
In addition, building and growing the Nedbank franchise.
Nedbank has representative offices in Kenya and Angola and presence in key financial Headline earnings increased 15.9% to centres including London, Isle of Man, R8,670 million, driven by good revenue Guernsey, Toronto and Dubai.
growth, impairments increasing at a slower rate than net interest income and disciplined Nedbank has had a strategic alliance with expense management.
Ecobank Transnational International ETI, a banking group based in Togo, West Africa Diluted headline earnings per share HEPS since 2008 and together with Ecobank, increased 15.0% to 1,829 cents and diluted we have the ability to service our customers earnings per share increased 15.1% to across 37 countries in Africa.
subscription rights to take up to a 20% We have continued to create value for our shareholding in ETI and a formal decision shareholders by increasing net asset value per will be made during the rights exercise period share by 12.1% to 13,143 cents and dividends in 2014. per share by 19.0% to 895 cents per share.
Rm Highlights 2013 2012 % change AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 12,026 10,738 12% Headline earnings 8,670 7,483 16% Net interest income 21,220 19,680 8% Non-interest revenue 19,361 17,324 12% Net interest margin 3.57% 3.53% Credit loss ratio 1.06% 1.05% Return on Equity 15.6% 14.8% 1 Common equity Tier 1 ratio 12.5% 11.6% 1 Calculated by Nedbank as a Basel III basis Old Mutual plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Nedbank generated economic profit EP In the context of this volatile and uncertain Outlook of R2,114 million, up 39.0%.
The return on economic outlook, forecast risk is high.
Against average ordinary shareholders equity RoE, this background, we expect our advances to Improved prospects for developed economies, excluding goodwill, increased to 17.2% grow at midto upper single digits and our net together with the tapering off of quantitative 2012: 16.4% and the RoE increased to 15.6% interest margin to remain stable.
We anticipate easing, will lead to global volatility and pose 2012: 14.8%, benefiting from an increased the credit loss ratio to be within the new range downside risk to many emerging markets.
of 80 to 120 basis points, improving slightly A further concern is Chinas economic on 2013.
Non-interest revenue is anticipated slowdown, given its importance as a trade Nedbank Group is well capitalised, with the to grow at midto upper single digits and partner for South Africa.
Basel III common-equity tier 1 ratio at 12.5% expenses at upper single digits.
We currently at the top end of our internal target range.
Nedbank currently anticipates South African expect organic diluted HEPS growth in 2014 Funding and liquidity levels remained sound, GDP growth of 2.6% in 2014.
Growth in to be greater than the growth in nominal GDP.
with the surplus liquidity buffer at R28.0 billion household credit demand is unlikely to improve 2012: R24.4 billion, and the final-quarter in 2014 while employment conditions remain average long-term funding ratio was poor, real income constrained and consumer maintained at 26.2%.
We are Liquidity debt levels high.
The rate and extent of further Coverage Ratio LCR compliant on a interest rate increases will impact the proforma basis.
consumers ability to service their debts.
Strategic direction Our vision is to be Africas most admired bank by our employees, customers, shareholders, regulators and communities.
Over the past four years, Nedbanks franchise has grown strongly: our brand value has increased by 38% to R10.9bn since 2009 as measured by Brand Finance South Africas 50 Most Valuable Brands Survey.
We have made significant progress in delivering on our four key strategic focus areas of repositioning Nedbank Retail, growing NIR, implementing the portfolio tilt strategy and expanding into Africa.
We have now refined these to better reflect these underlying drivers of our strategic growth strategy: Client centred innovation Growing our transactional banking franchise Optimise to invest Strategic Portfolio Tilt CASE STUDY Pan-African banking network.
Nedbank App Suite Nedbank recognised the growing banking, utilises Approve ITTM a world importance of mobile banking and in 2013 class security feature that has enabled launched the Nedbank App Suite a mobile a significant reduction in fraud incidents application platform for customers across and positions Nedbank at the forefront retail, business banking and wholesale of risk management in mobile banking.
Over 340,000 downloads have As a result Nedbank won the 2013 been received since the Nedbank App Suite MTN Android Consumer App of the was launched and transactions valued at year award, demonstrating the progress over R6 billion have taken place through this we have made, and our increasing platform over 10.5m transactions.
In addition, relevance and responsiveness to our the Nedbank App Suite along with other customers in an increasingly competitive electronic banking channels such as internet banking environment.
41 BUSINESS REVIEW SUMMARY Property & Casualty collaboration with Old Mutual and Ecobank Business review will generate significant growth in the coming years.
Structure and services In Swaziland we currently own 16% of Mutual & Federal, the Old Mutual Groups Swaziland Royal Insurance Corporation, the property and casualty business, is southern countrys foremost provider of short-term Africas oldest short-term otherwise known insurance.
as general or property and casualty insurer.
In Zimbabwe RM Insurance is ranked third Our history dates back more than 180 years.
in terms of market share, with 11.7% of As one of the leading players in the regions the market.
short-term insurance landscape, we are proud of our tradition of service and quality, as well Market trends as our range of products.
Raimund Snyders We offer an extensive range of insurance The South African property and casualty products and solutions to meet personal, industry saw combined ratios deteriorate CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER commercial and corporate needs.
The year was MUTUAL & FEDERAL provide cover for the agricultural, engineering characterised by large claims arising from and marine sectors.
We often partner with severe hailstorms, floods and droughts in brokers to deliver personal advice and service different parts of South Africa, as well as rising Tough operating to customers, and work in partnership with the motor claims costs as a result of increasing conditions whilst Groups Mass Foundation business and prices for imported car parts.
Nedbank Retail to deliver direct insurance business changes are solutions through iWYZE.
A disappointing underwriting loss of R437 Geographic presence million can largely be attributed to severe The Old Mutual Group has property and weather-related losses in the fourth quarter, casualty businesses in South Africa, Namibia, drought conditions leading to poor Agriculture Botswana, Zimbabwe, and most recently results in the first half and a continuing soft Nigeria, through our acquisition of Oceanic market in the South African property and General Insurance.
The underwriting loss deteriorated from the prior year with the Competitive position margin worsening by 3.2% to a loss of 4.9%.
Flood and hail damage caused an increase and competitors in both claims frequency and severity.
In South Africa we are the number two Gross written premium grew 17% year on property and casualty insurer with a 9.9% year, reflecting strong growth of 36.7% in the share of the overall short-term market, Corporate & Niche segment which delivered according to the latest available industry data.
gross written premiums of R3,527 million Santam is the largest player and other 2012: R2,581 million.
Much of the growth in significant market players include Hollard & premiums was due to inwards reinsurance Etana, Outsurance and Zurich.
business, which primarily consist of open In Botswana we are ranked fourth among all market and strategic attritional losses the short-term players as of December 2011. treaty business.
In Namibia we are ranked second in terms of iWYZE, our joint venture with the Old Mutual market share, with over 28% of the market.
Mass Foundation business, achieved solid growth in gross written premium of 10.8%, and Although Oceanic commands a fairly small a significant improvement in the claims ratio.
portion of the Nigerian market, we believe our Rm 1 Highlights 2013 2012 % change Underwriting margin 4.9 % 1.7 % Underwriting result 437 132 231 % AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 58 475 88 % Gross written premiums 11,315 9,706 17% Comparatives have been restated to reflect 100% of the iWYZE results Old Mutual plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report In the longer term, the management team is Strategic direction focused on improving return on equity to 15% to 20% by 2016 through the management of Management has clear plans to address claims costs, capital management and challenges over the current business planning underwriting margin.
period by focusing on: We are confident that our management Remediating rates and improving risk actions will positively impact progress towards selection in Personal lines our stated targets, while acknowledging that Improving claims efficiency and an increase in the frequency and severity of effectiveness while combating claims fraud weather-related claims increases our earnings Reducing operating expenses volatility, given the current business risk profile.
Improving the operating model Improving customer and broker experience Creating a high-performance culture.
At the same time were are planning significant expansion in Africa: West Africa: Successfully establish our new business in Nigeria and explore the prospects for using this as a springboard for further expansion into the region, specifically into Ghana East Africa: Investigate and engage opportunities to enter the region through Kenya and complement the Groups efforts to build scale and capacity in the region Southern Africa: Explore opportunities to generate more value for the Group in countries such as Botswana, Swaziland and Zambia and consider eventual entry into Mozambique and Angola.
Outlook In the latter part of the year, remedial action taken in our personal lines division showed some modest impact as the policy count began to stabilise, but the continued depreciation of the rand led to increased motor-related claims costs on imported parts.
Despite the challenging market conditions in 2013, we expect a hardening of the market in 2014 as competitors also increase premiums CASE STUDY In 2012 and 2013, South Africa experienced in response to rising claims cost pressures.
Our severe hailstorms which resulted in an primary focus is on restoring the profitability Weather alerts increase in the number of claims related to of the business in 2014 rather than on premium hail damage.
In August 2013 we partnered for customers growth.
In our personal segment, greater with a weather service provider to introduce collaboration within the Old Mutual Group a weather alerts service to our customers.
will be the driving force behind future growth This warns customers of forecast adverse as well as the expansion into Africa.
weather conditions such as hail, so that they can avoid damage and reduce claims cost and frequency by parking their vehicles under cover.
43 BUSINESS REVIEW SUMMARY Old Mutual Wealth market-leading retail platform in the UK and Business review are second in UK net retail sales according to the latest Pridham Report.
Structure Market trends Old Mutual Wealth is a vertically integrated wealth management business.
We provide Investment markets improved markedly in advice-led investment solutions to customers 2013 and the level of flows to the industry in the UK, France, Italy and a number of reflected this moving into equity and growth international markets including the Far East, asset allocations as we had anticipated.
In the Middle East, Latin America and South Africa UK, our major market, the Retail Distribution through our international business.
Review RDR brought significant regulatory change, for which we were well prepared.
Our businesses in Austria, Germany and Following implementation of RDR, we have Switzerland are closed to new business and our experienced increased demand for packaged Paul Feeney Polish business is in the process of being sold.
investment solutions from financial advisers CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER who increasingly seek to outsource either Products and services OLD MUTUAL WEALTH elements of, or their entire investment processes.
UK: We are a leading provider of retail investments via an investment platform with Strong operational Performance innovative solutions for wealth building and wealth management.
We serve a largely delivery through a Old Mutual Wealth AOP increased by 11% to affluent customer base through multi- 217 million 2012: 195 million as a result of changing regulatory channel distribution.
tight management of expenses and increased environment.
International: Focusing on high-net-worth fees earned on higher average FUM in the customers across the world, we serve their period.
needs from a number of leading NCCF of 2.3 billion was up by 15% 2012: international jurisdictions.
Distribution is 2.0 billion as a result of continuing strong through financial advisers based around sales in H2 on the UK Platform, OMGI and the world.
Old Mutual Wealth Europe: Offers saving and investment solutions for affluent FUM increased by 13% to 78.5 billion and emerging affluent customers in December 2012: 69.2 billion, driven by the Continental Europe.
continued improvement in the equity markets and positive NCCF.
Old Mutual Global Investors: A leading UK-based investment manager, with highly We generated gross sales of 14.4 billion, rated, experienced portfolio managers an increase of 24% 2012: 11.6 billion, and a strong long-term track record.
with strong sales on the UK platform, OMGI It distributes its products through international and International cross-border businesses.
wholesale channels as well as the other Group businesses.
Competitive environment Competitors include traditional insurers and asset managers, with key competitors including Hargreaves Lansdown, Standard Life and St Jamess Place.
We have a m Highlights 2013 2012 Change AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 217 195 11% NCCF bn 2.3 2.0 15% FUM bn 78.5 69.2 13% Gross sales 14,434 11,630 24% 2 Pre-tax Revenue Operating Margin 36% 33% 300 bps From Q2 2012 OMAM UK has been reported within Old Mutual Wealth OM Global Investors rather than USAM.
The comparatives for 2012 have not been restated in respect of sales recognised within USAM in Q1 2012 2 Pre-tax Operating Margin is calculated as pre-tax AOP divided by Net Revenue Old Mutual plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report The acquisition of the distribution business Strategic direction Intrinsic Financial Services, will allow us to diversify our distribution by becoming a We are creating a modern, vertically complementary advice channel, and will integrated wealth management and asset better position us to offer our own solutions.
In the UK we are Given the substantial changes occurring in the building the leading retail investment business.
industry, this move will solidify and maintain We are making strong progress towards our our presence in the advisory channel in the UK.
IFRS profit target of 300 million by 2015, It will also allow us to compete with other through capital-efficient delivery of customerproduct providers who are acquiring their focused investment and risk solutions.
We have made significant progress in our A revitalised Asia strategy will be launched strategy of developing into an integrated at the end of Q1 2014 with the exclusive sales wealth management business through six agreement with a leading institutional broker key steps: signed in December.
We expect further collaboration with AIVA in Latin America, Creating one business with the Life Investment Portfolio building Building-out the asset management business a strong pipeline at the end of 2013 for 2014.
Widening our proposition: WealthSelect and other product launches In OMGI, we expect continued strong growth of the UK Equity and Alternatives desks as well Transforming our platforms: Wealth as through the Spectrum fund range.
We Interactive and UK administration remain focused on the launch of our multiBuilding-out distribution: Asia and AIVA asset offerings including our Foundation fund Managing for value: European and UK in addition to developing our investment Heritage businesses proposition in Asia.
At the same time as the WealthSelect launch in Outlook Q1 2014, there will be the final transfer of the We have made significant progress in heritage assets from the UK to OMGI of around transforming our business in 2013 and 2014 400 million.
A final 200 million in Nordic will see further change.
In the UK, we will outflows is expected in 2014. launch the WealthSelect fund management We announced in November that we had suite, conclude the terms of our administrative agreed to sell our Polish business, as part of outsourcing agreement and broaden our our commitment to simplify our operations distribution capabilities.
The objective is to and focus on a select number of core growth increase our speed to market for our proposition markets.
The transaction is subject to regulatory and to service customers in the way that they approvals and other customary conditions find most convenient.
We expect the sales and we expect to complete the sale in the next momentum to continue into 2014 as we introduce CASE STUDY six months.
further protection and retirement enhancements.
RDR readiness Given our current business profile and our With Wealth Interactive implemented in ability to improve margin through increasing The new Retail Distribution Review International, we intend to increase our sales of our funds through our platforms, we regulations represent the biggest overhaul penetration in the markets we operate remain confident of achieving our financial of the UK financial services industry for delivering flexible and user friendly products targets for Old Mutual Wealth and some time and have a major impact on on an efficient platform.
developing it into a fully-fledged wealth providers and advisers.
We continue the planning for our outsourcing management business.
Thanks to the hard work and dedication of contract to boost product capability and lower the RDR project teams, we completed the our cost base from 2017 onwards.
We expect huge task of achieving compliance on time.
an additional cash cost of approximately One of many achievements is the launch of 140 million of the outsourcing agreement to a consumer website in the UK supporting be spent in the period of 2014 2016, which customers who no longer have a will be reported as exceptional IFRS costs and relationship with a financial adviser.
so excluded from adjusted operating profit.
45 BUSINESS REVIEW SUMMARY US Asset Management Business review Performance Old Mutuals Asset Management business USAM delivered a strong level of AOP in USAM is headquartered in Boston and has 2013 while supporting key growth initiatives a global distribution footprint.
including further build-out of our global distribution capabilities.
We stand for institutionally driven active investment management, delivered in a IFRS AOP increased by 21% on a reported diversified multi-boutique framework that basis 2012: $144 million largely due to seeks to consistently generate alpha for our increases in management fees resulting from clients around the globe.
We provide higher average FUM than the comparative genuinely strategic capabilities to our period.
Reported results also benefited from affiliates, helping them to become their clients the divestiture activity undertaken during 2012. most trusted partner through the delivery of FUM increased by 23% to $257.4 billion Peter Bain superior investment performance, innovative 31 December 2012: $208.6 billion with offerings, and focused client service.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER $34.1 billion of market appreciation US ASSET MANAGEMENT We offer access to a broadly diversified range contributing 16.3% growth and $16.3 billion of investment strategies through our eight of net client cash inflows contributing affiliated investment firms: 7.8% growth.
Strong net client cash Acadian Asset Management LLC Net client cash inflows were $16.3 billion for flows of $16.3 billion the period 2012 reported results: $0.4 billion Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss, LLC net outflow, representing 7.8% opening FUM.
The Campbell Group, LLC and AOP up by 21%, Net inflows were highly diversified, with six Copper Rock Capital Partners LLC as business momentum out of the eight affiliates reporting positive Heitman LLC or flat flows.
Investment Counselors of Maryland, LLC USAMs Global Distribution initiative raised Rogge Global Partners Plc $4.5 billion in total assets funded in 2013: Thompson, Siegel & Walmsley LLC NCCF sourced by Global Distribution represented 23% of the total NCCF for Market trends the year.
Current institutional search activity favours specialised strategies in asset classes such as Global Equity, US Equity, and Alternatives including Real Estate and Timber.
Particularly relevant are strategies which can demonstrate either meaningful Alpha, diversification, or volatility management benefits as these are critical issues for investors.
$m Highlights 2013 2012 Change AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 174 144 21% 1 Operating margin, before non-controlling interests 33% 28% 1 Operating margin, after non-controlling interests 29% 24% Net client cash flows $bn 16.3 0.4 16.7 Funds under management $bn 257.4 208.6 23% 1 Comparative operating margin has been restated following the adoption of IFRS 10 in respect of Heitman Old Mutual plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Outlook Assuming favourable market conditions, we expect strong business performance and financial growth to continue in 2014, including sustained positive net client cash flows and an operating margin greater than 30%, pre non-controlling interests.
On an ongoing basis, we continue to target average annual net client cash inflows of 3% to 5% of opening FUM.
We remain focused on investing in affiliate growth initiatives and further penetration of non-US markets through our Global Distribution initiative.
We will also continue to explore selective inorganic growth opportunities that augment the portfolio and fill critical product or asset class gaps in our business.
CASE STUDY Enhanced employee wellbeing scheme This year, we redeveloped our employee who participate in pre-defined wellness wellness programme, reflecting employee initiatives.
We have also introduced suggestions to cover new topics including treadmill desks in our Boston Head Office nutrition and retirement savings.
We have pictured that allow employees to exercise initiated the provision of a telephone whilst working.
These treadmill desks wellness coach and next year will introduce can be booked for meetings as well medical premium subsidies for employees as individual working.
