Drax Group plc 50 Annual report and accounts 2013 Sustainable business review Committed to sustainability Sustainability underpins all that we do and the future of our business encompasses all three aspects of sustainable development environmental, social and economic.
The Board establishes the policies in Our approach to a Materiality respect of sustainable development, sustainablebusiness Given the diversity of our stakeholders such as our business conduct, there are a wide range of topics We have a major role to play in helping to environmental, and health and safety andperformance measures on protect and enhance the environment.
The Boards policies are whichwecould report.
In determining This is in line with the wider goals of implemented by dedicated specialists which to report we consider their sustainable development.
Our approach who make sure effective processes materiality in terms of their relevance contributes to a sustainable, low carbon and procedures are in place to assure to the Company and their importance economy and offers opportunities for compliance and to identify and to report to stakeholders.
economic growth and job creation.
Throughout this Annual report and We operate our business within a As in previous years we have continued accounts we aim to report on topics framework of increasingly stringent and to invest, not only to comply with andperformance measures that challenging legislative and regulatory environmental and health and safety represent our significant environmental, requirements.
We are, however, mindful requirements, but, where practicable, social and economic impacts and those of the still tougher expectations of to go further.
In 2013, we retained our that would substantively influence our wider stakeholder group.
For us, a presence in the FTSE4Good Index the assessments and decisions of sustainable business is about achieving Series, which is designed to measure stakeholders.
Further sustainability a balance between the commercial and the performance of companies that reporting is available on our website regulatory rigours of the competitive meet globally recognised corporate at:www.
com sustainability sector and operating responsibly.
responsibility standards and facilitate investment in those companies.
Engaging with our stakeholders Drax and shareholders: Drax and employees: Drax and Parliament: Drax and government Drax and Drax and local departments: European Union: government: k Reports and k Briefing sessions k Briefing papers announcements k Face-to-face k Briefing papers k Liaison meetings k Intranet k Face-to-face meetings k Website meetings k Face-to-face k Annual consultative k Written Group briefs k Consultation meetings committee meeting k Road shows k Written and oral k Drax Power responses evidence k Via trade associations k Exhibitions k Face-to-face OpenForum k Visit programmes meetings k Visit programmes k Newsletters k Via trade associations k Visit programmes Drax and local Drax and media: Drax and government Drax and NGOs and Drax and suppliers Drax and trading community: agents regulators: opinion formers: and customers: counterparties: k Press releases k Sponsorship k Face-to-face k Face-to-face k Face-to-face k Face-to-face k Face-to-face meetings meetings meetings meetings k Fundraising events meetings k Correspondence and k Briefing papers k Conferences k Industry events k Themed campaigns k Visit programme data submission k Contractor briefings k Visitor programme k Via trade associations k Contractor safety k Exhibitions conference k Newsletters Drax Group plc 51 Annual report and accounts 2013 In partnership with Alstom UK Limited Emissions to air Our environment and BOC a member of the Linde Group In accordance with the Companies Act and in association with National Grid, we 2006 we set out our carbon reporting Towards a low are involved in a Front End Engineering information for direct emissions and Design FEED study to develop a carboneconomy Scope 1 from activities such as 426MW oxy-combustion carbon capture We have an important role to play in fuel combustion and processing, and and storage CCS demonstration the transition of the UK towards a low indirect emissions Scope 2 being plant at the Drax Power Station site.
carbon economy whilst maintaining the equivalent emissions created The viability of the project is dependent secure and affordable supplies of by the generation of the electricity, on external funding and the introduction electricity.
For us, a sustainable business heat or steam we purchase.
Scope 1 of a market mechanism to support low principally implies delivering on our for Drax covers the emissions arising carbon technology uptake.
To that strategic carbon abatement initiative from burning fossil fuels, namely end we are participating in UK and EU to generate increasing amounts of coal, to generate electricity and the funded programmes.
electricity from sustainable biomass operation of some of our plant at the inplace of coal.
power station, for example, our flue-gas desulphurisation system.
The Groups Environmental performance During 2013, significant progress Scope 2 emissions arise mainly from andcompliance wasmade on executing our plan electricity purchased to run operations to transform the business into a Environmental compliance of our power across our various sites.
predominantly biomass-fuelled station and associated landfill site is We are also required to disclose generator.
We converted our first managed through an environmental emissions of biologically sequestered generating unit to burn sustainable management system.
This system is carbon, which includes emissions biomass in place of coal at the externally certified to the international released through burning biomass beginningof April.
Through increasing standard ISO 14001 and is subject to togenerate electricity.
the amount of sustainable biomass external audit twice a year.
burnt in place of coal we will Through implementing our strategy We completed a trial with the significantlyreduce our carbon to become a predominantly biomassEnvironment Agency in 2013 as part footprintfrom 2012 levels.
fuelled generator we aim to reduce of the Environmental Permitting Our electricity supply business, our Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
HavenPower, has been successful result there will be a rise in biologically The scheme is intended to reduce in selling the increased output of sequestered carbon emissions.
regulatory burden on the best renewable power generated from our performing sites, whilst maintaining We collate data on our carbon dioxide biomass conversion to our customers.
an adequate level of oversight through emissions from fuel combustion as Renewable power sales are exempt combining assessment of specific legal part of our measurement and reporting from the Climate Change Levy so compliance with certification to ISO plan under the EU ETS.
This includes even after our price premium many 14001.
The effectiveness of the scheme all Scope 1 and the biologically customers can make savings whilst is being assessed by the Environment sequestered carbon figures.
For Scope enjoying the benefits of power from Agency and we await their proposals.
2 reporting we use the Greenhouse Gas sustainable biomass.
Protocol, A Corporate Accounting and There were no major breaches of our Reporting Standard revised edition environmental consents during 2013. and the Governments published GHG conversion factors to determine the level of carbon emissions.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 52 Annual report and accounts 2013 Sustainable business review The majority of our emissions arise Beyond carbon dioxide we manage Disposals to land through the combustion of fossil all our emissions effectively and have We have continued to invest in site fuel for generating electricity.
As this maintained high levels of investment infrastructure to maximise the sale single figure can shadow smaller, but in flue gas desulphurisation and of ash products into the construction still important trends, we have set a combustion control systems to ensure industry and to reduce the disposal materiality threshold of 100 thousand compliance with environmental limits.
of surplus ash to landfill.
In 2013, ash tonnes, equivalent to approximately All emissions in 2013 were within the was sold in conformity with European 0.5% of the reporting years emissions, limits set by the Environment Agency.
construction product standards and in to ensure we strike the right balance Looking ahead, work continues to compliance with the Waste Recycling between demonstrating important develop a solution to comply with the Action Programme quality protocol.
trends and limiting data to a emission limits which will be in place meaningful level.
This has helped us to sell over 80% beyond 2016 under the Industrial of the 1.3 million tonnes of ash Carbon dioxide emissions, calculated Emissions Directive.
produced in 2013 as replacement for under the EU ETS, as a ratio of electricity virgin aggregates and as a cement Total emissions generated, before deductions for that kt 2013 2012 2011 replacement product.
used on-site, is a principal performance Sulphur dioxide 31.7 35.1 32.1 indicator for the Group.
This metric In 2013, construction was completed on Nitrogen oxides 39.2 39.2 38.9 has also been selected for mandatory the lightweight aggregate production carbon reporting.
Dust 0.8 0.8 0.6 facility on-site, which is owned and operated by Lytag Ltd, a company based 2013 2013 2012 2012 Discharges to water in Escrick, North Yorkshire.
The facility Activity kt t GWh kt t GWh manufactures lightweight aggregate Scope 1 Water is a key resource to Drax Power from pulverised fuel ash.
Fossil fuel Station with the great majority of the combustion 20,162 720 22,513 777 cooling water abstracted from the River Any unsold ash is sent to the power Operations 157 6 180 7 Ouse.
Other minor sources include the stations ash disposal site, Barlow 2 1 Sherwood Sandstone Aquifer and the Mound.
The completed area of the site Total Scope 1 20,320 725 22,693 784 towns mains.
Procedures are in place to has been fully restored for use as farm Scope 2 manage and monitor the drainage and land and woodland.
Purchased water systems on-site so as to ensure all electricity 293 10 341 10 We pay landfill tax on the ash disposed discharge consent limits are met.
Total Scope 1 of to the site.
Through the Landfill and 2 20,612 736 23,038 794 Communities Fund, we are able to Water abstraction BiologicallyMt 2013 2012 2011 claim a tax credit for our donations sequestered to recognised Environmental Bodies.
River Ouse water 56.9 56.7 57.7 carbon We have worked with Groundwork Mains water 0.3 0.2 0.2 biomass 2 1 North Yorkshire since 2001 on projects combustion 2,799 1,214 Borehole water 1.9 1.8 2.1 designed to help mitigate the effects Gross of landfill upon our local community.
generation TWh 28 29 During 2013, we contributed 73,000 towards local community-based projects Notes: 1 Externally verified by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
designed to bring about sustainable 2 During 2014 will be subject to the same audit as 2012 figures.
environmental benefits and contribute Figures may not add up due to rounding.
to the social and economic regeneration of the area.
We continue to manage waste from our operations in a responsible manner.
In 2013, we met our target to divert 90% of non-ash waste from landfill.
Drax Group plc 53 Annual report and accounts 2013 In addition to this, we were once again Our people awarded the The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Gold Medal Health and safety Award having achieved Gold Award Health and safety is at the heart of our standards for nine consecutive years.
Protecting our employees, contractors and all visitors from injury Safety leadership and recognition is fundamental to our philosophy.
We are committed to developing and We are constantly striving to maintaining a positive health and safety improve thecritical safety leadership culture in which statutory requirements contribution required from first line are viewed as a minimum standard and supervisors.
The expectations of both leading performance as our goal.
management and supervisors continue to be reaffirmed in the Safety Leadership Personal safety statistics Charter, which is based on the Health and Safety Executives approach to 2013 2012 2011 achieving a balance between the Fatality 0 00 systems and behavioural aspects of Time losing injuries 6 33 management, treating health and safety Restricted work management as an integral part of good injuries 4 21 management generally, rather than as a Medical treatment stand-alone system.
injuries 10 30 A Health and Safety Advisory Committee First aid injuries 297 220 207 HESAC, which brings together a range 1 RIDDOR reportable 11 45 of employees, including trade union Note: representatives, safety representatives, 1 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
occupational health and management team members, continues to play a vital The increase in the injury statistics role in facilitating staff consultation on above arose from weaker performance health and safety issues, and driving at two of our US construction sites.
Working with our contractors we have significantly enhanced safety Our active involvement with the management and supervision at programmes of our trade body, Energy these sites.
UK, and the Coal Generators Forum, GENSIP, continues to provide new ideas Attaining leading performance and a stimulus to drive our health and We are committed to safety improvement efforts forward.
developing and maintaining The lost time injury rate and total a positive health and recordable injury rate for 2013 at 0.09 Health and wellbeing safety culture.
and 0.29 respectively remain industryWe are committed to promoting the Matthew Houlden leading.
This performance was achieved health and wellbeing of all our staff Trainee Health & Safety Advisor in the context of significant construction and ensuring a professional response work that took place during the year.
to first aid and emergency situations Over one-third of the 6.9 million hours should any occur.
We have published worked across the Group was in higher occupational health policies which risk construction activities.
Our safety address industrial disease risks, record continues to compare very and our occupational health team favourably with that of our sector undertakes regular programmes to peers and international benchmarks.
screen colleagues in accordance with Amongst global comparator coal-fired risk, exposure and Health and Safety power stations we are ahead of the Executive requirements.
European and World Pacesetter group for total recordable injury rate.
Health and wellbeing-based programmes and initiatives are We have retained certification of our run throughout the Group to raise Health and Safety Management System awareness and promote a healthy to the internationally recognised lifestyle.
All of the UK workforce Occupational Health and Safety is represented in formal joint standard, OHSAS 18001, at the Drax management-worker health and Power Station site and for our biomass safety committees that help monitor pellet plant, based at Goole in the and advise on occupational health East Riding of Yorkshire.
is approved by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 54 Annual report and accounts 2013 Sustainable business review Employee policies andrelations We have a structured process of Employees succession planning for senior roles We have a suite of policies designed to Employment with a specific career management support our people at work, including discussion integrated within the existing The Group employed 1,280 people those to assist, where appropriate, a appraisal process.
The process identifies at the year end, an increase of variety of work lifestyle preferences, succession potential and gaps, which 10%.
The pie charts provide a procedures for raising grievance or in turn inform individual development breakdown of headcount across safety concerns, and diversity and recruitment planning.
Most of our inclusion in the workplace.
We make employees work full-time and are every effort to provide long-term Reward and recognition onpermanent contracts.
employment security and we maintain high standards in employment practices.
We benchmark our reward packages at At Drax Power Limited the annual staff every level in the organisation against turnover rate for 2013 was only 5%, Learning and development the industry sector and the market as a most of which was due to retirements.
whole, nationally or locally, as appropriate Haven Powers annual staff turnover Our personal and career development to the role.
We also participate in rate was indicative of the business and processes across the Group are designed specialist industry meetings to exchange demographic profile of the workforce, to equip all our people with the technical information and developments in although following a number of skills, management and leadership employment policy.
initiatives to improve staff retention competencies, and personal behaviours it fell from 36% in 2012 to 24% in 2013. needed to achieve our Business Through a range of share plans we Five employees left our US operations in Plan.
All employees receive annual encourage all UK employees to build 2013, resulting in an annualised turnover performance and development reviews.
a personal stake in the ownership of rate of 21%.
Each year, Drax Power Limited Gender split both across the Group recruits for the four-year apprentice and the senior management team is training programme covering power illustrated in the pie charts.
Our biggest station operations and engineering challenge continues to be attracting maintenance.
In 2013, we took on eight female applicants, whether apprentices, apprentices across the three disciplines graduates or more senior roles, to of mechanical, electrical, and control production and engineering positions.
The Boards policy on diversity is given This year, 12 participants in our supervisor inthe Nominations Committee report development programme were each onpage 77. awarded a Certificate in Professional Development from Coventry University.
Employee engagement Each year Drax Power We also commenced a structured Limited recruits for the Some 51% of the Groups workforce is two-year UK graduate development four-year apprentice training covered by collective bargaining, and programme for 15 recent graduates who programme covering power for the remainder who are employed have joined various departments across station operations and on individual employment contracts the Group.
we have representative employee During the year, Drax and the Oliver Fish, Ap pp prentice consultation and information Richa ard rd J Jaeh aehr ri ig g, A Ap ppr prent enti ic ce e tradeunion, Unite, signed a learning arrangements in place.
An annual agreement committing to working employee engagement survey is inpartnership to promote and conducted at Haven Power, and at supportlifelong learning and Drax Power an employee survey and a ensuringequal access to learning stress survey, as designed by the Health opportunities.
The agreements and Safety Executive, is conducted in aims include establishing a learning alternate years.
The surveys allow for culture within the workplace, and analysis, feedback and action plans.
supporting employees to gain skills We use a variety of communication andqualifications to support their channels to ensure that all colleagues future employability and the are kept fully informed of developments businessneeds.
in the Groups operations and provided with the opportunity to give feedback.
Drax Group plc 55 Annual report and accounts 2013 Employment contracts Drax Group total workforce Our stakeholders Part Time: Engaging with 1,280 76 ourstakeholders as at 31 December 2013 Like most businesses, our stakeholders are many and diverse, including our shareholders, employees, customers, energy consultants, suppliers, the local community, government, nongovernmental organisations, regulators, opinion formers and the media.
Communication with all our stakeholders Full Time: is considered to be an essential part 1,204 of our business and we aim to be open andtransparent in all that we do.
Business conduct Employment gender Employment status We are committed to high ethical standards and to conducting our Temporary: business with honesty, integrity and 13 Female: inaccordance with applicable laws 308 and regulations.
Honesty and integrity not only underpin how we do business, buthow we expect our customers, suppliers, agents, partners, contractors and consultants to do business, whether in the UK, US or beyond.
Male: In order to prevent bribery and 972 Permanent: corruption we take responsibility 1,267 formaintaining a culture within the Group in which bribery is never acceptable.
In protecting fundamental human rights, Drax does not tolerate the Senior management Senior management group use of underage workers or any concept group gender diversity composition by department of forced labour, at the same time ensuring our suppliers activities have Chief Executive: a minimal impact on the environment 1 Strategy and Finance, IT, Female: Regulation: and local communities.
Any supplier Procurement 11 and Risk: 5 found to be complicit in a breach of such 7 standards, either directly or indirectly, Fuel Production: willbe barred from further participation purchasing 7 and US: in our supply chain activities.
8 The Groups Code of Business Ethics establishes the rules and framework Corporate under which employees should base Affairs: Retail, Trading Male: 6 their decision making.
Employees are and Logistics: 35 12 expected to follow not only the letter ofthe Code, but the spirit.
The Groups whistleblowing policy provides a confidential means for our employees to speak up with confidence.
The policy provides guidance on how to make a disclosure of information, ingoodfaith, relating to safety, fraudorother illegal or unethical conduct that they may have witnessedor are concerned about.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 56 Annual report and accounts 2013 Sustainable business review We are leading the introduction of There is currently unprecedented Supply chain credible sustainability standards change that touches virtually all into biomass procurement activities.
elements of the retail market value Non-fuel procurement Our procurement process is designed to chain and during the year we ran We take a balanced approach to our ensure that the production and delivery a number of events for customers, supply chain and we look to use suppliers of biomass will: prospective customers and their and working partners from diverse consultants to inform them about, significantly reduce greenhouse backgrounds, in particular, small and selected developments.
gas emissions compared to coalmedium-sized suppliers in the local fired generation: For our larger customers, we introduced community where possible.
an online portal providing 24 7, not result in a net release of carbon Sustainability is an essential element of access to bills and statements as well from the vegetation and soil of either good procurement practice and takes forests or agricultural lands: as consumption data and flexible account of wider social, economic and purchasing information.
not endanger food supply or environmental factors in addition to the communities where the use of conventional criteria of price, quality biomass is essential for subsistence Investor relations and service.
By applying these wider for example heat, medicines, principles our procurement practices building materials : We are committed to delivering go beyond meeting simple tender shareholder value.
We communicate, not adversely affect protected requirements to delivering improved our results and prospects to our or vulnerable biodiversity and, value and real cost savings throughout shareholders in an accurate and timely where possible, give preference the supply chain.
manner using a variety of channels.
to biomass production that strengthens biodiversity: In addition to the Annual General Coal procurement Meeting, we communicate through, deploy good practices to protect and our Annual report and accounts, Half We buy coal from a range of sources or improve soil, water both ground year report and Interim Management with the objectives of managing our and surface and air quality: Statements.
All of these documents commercial exposures, environmental, contribute to local prosperity in the are made available on our website at obligations and diversity of supply.
area of supply chain management and www.
Significant matters We purchase around 40% of our coal biomass production: and relating to trading and the development from UK deep and surface mines with, contribute to the social wellbeing of of the business are disseminated to the the remainder coming from major supply employees and the local population in market by way of announcements via a basins around the world, including the the area of the biomass production.
regulatory information service and those US, Colombia and Russia.
announcements appear as soon as We work collaboratively with our When buying from overseas we have practicable on our website.
suppliers to ensure compliance with continued to require, through our the UK governments sustainability Announcements are frequently followed contracts, minimum standards with criteria.
Confidence in the sustainability up with either conference calls or suppliers in respect of compliance with of the biomass is achieved through a presentations to provide further detail legislation, human rights, labour relations, programme of information exchange, and greater understanding.
In addition, health and safety arrangements and documentary evidence, due diligence face-to-face meetings are held with business ethics.
In order to support our activities and independent third our major institutional shareholders, focus on responsible procurement, we party verification.
and other potential investors in the have joined the Bettercoal initiative, a Group, again to assist them in their not-for-profit organisation that promotes understanding of the announcements, continuous improvement in corporate Customer relations and also to ensure that the Board is responsibility in the coal supply chain.
Customers and their consultants are aware of their views and concerns.
at the heart of our retail business.
All of To aid our communication with private Biomass sustainability our customers have named account investors, the investor section of our and procurement managers who are responsible for website has been developed to be a It is a prerequisite that all our biomass the service that we deliver.
We have a readily accessible and transparent must be purchased from sustainable growing reputation for providing good source of information to enhance sources.
To ensure this we have service and this supports a good level understanding of the business.
implemented a sustainability policy of renewal at the end of customers which embeds comprehensive criteria supply contracts.
During 2013, Ofgem introduced new Our Biomass Sustainability Management requirements under its retail market System ensures commitment to review, including a requirement to treat our policy.
Despite being already compliant with many of the changes we took the opportunity to improve ourcustomer service and, in particular, our assurance of fair treatment.
Drax Group plc 57 Annual report and accounts 2013 Public affairs Community relations As in previous years, we maintained We are committed to being a good our engagement with public affairs neighbour to our local community audiences on issues with implications and our caring for the community for our business.
With energy policy philosophy involves being part of still high on the political agenda we local and regional communities.
had significant engagement with Our involvement takes the form of Parliamentarians and officials at all sponsoring a variety of local charities levels on issues including forthcoming and fundraising events, promoting our environmental legislation, renewables own campaigns which focus on the policy and market reform issues.
three themes of youth sport, education and the environment, and maintaining The form of engagement was varied open communication channels and and included both face-to-face and good working relationships with the written briefings, participation in public regions key opinion formers.
consultations, written evidence to inquiries, and visits by Parliamentarians Sponsorship and fundraising and officials to Drax Power Station.
As in the past, trade association membership During 2013, the Group gave financial proved useful during the year.
The ability support of 200,000 2012: 182,000 to meet with and discuss issues of the in total across a range of charitable and day with other interested parties has non-charitable community causes.
facilitated presentation of collective Of that total, charitable donations positions on energy policy matters.
No political donations were made Education in the community in the UK or elsewhere during 2013 2012: nil, and the Groups contact with We provide a choice of educational those active in the political arena has experiences hosted by our team of been and will continue to be aimed power station guides and, at times, solely at the promotion of the Groups technical experts.
visitor centre is of particular interest to students of all ages allowing them The definitions of EU political to explore the properties of electricity, expenditure are broad and there discover how a power station works is uncertainty about the extent to and consider the environmental issues which normal business activities, related to electricity generation.
which might not be thought to be political expenditure in the usual sense, Another visitor opportunity exists at could be considered to be political our nature reserve that lies at the heart expenditure within the meaning of of our ash disposal site.
Established as During 2013, we played host the legislation.
The Company wishes a sanctuary for over 100 species of to some 10,000 visitors.
to avoid any inadvertent infringement wildlife, it is specially designed to help Pauline Butler of the legislation and each year, schoolchildren understand more about Lead Station Guide through a resolution at the Annual the natural habitat and ecology of General Meeting, seeks the authority the area.
of shareholders to incur expenditure Campaigns such as Cricket in the fortheCompany and its subsidiaries for Community, Art in the Community such purposes of 100,000. and the Community Pride Awards are now established in the annual calendar of community events and continue to prove popular.
Visitors to Drax During 2013, we played host to some 10,000 visitors.
The appeal of discovering more about how power is produced and the sheer scale of the site and its associated activities attracts schools and colleges as well asbusiness organisations, and local andprofessional associations.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
