Business review SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENT IN SECOND HALF PERFORMANCE VS. FIRST HALF Costs FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND POSITION Headline operating costs at constant currency increased by 1.7% over the previous year versus a 0.1% decline as reported and increased Financial Performance by 0.9% points of sales to 37.6%.
This increase was greatest in the 2013 2012 first half, when headline operating costs at constant currency Sales 1,235.6m 1,267.4m increased by 3.1%.
46.8% Gross margin 46.0% At the end of the first half we set out a number of actions to reduce 1 Headline contribution 243.7m 266.8m headline operating costs as a percentage of sales in the second half 1 138.7 m Headline Group Process costs 139.4 m as compared to the first half.
These included control of discretionary 1 costs and ef ciencies from the implementation of our global Headline operating pro t 104.3m 128.1m organisation structure.
These organisational cost ef ciencies 5.8 m Interest net 5.6 m amounted to 4 million in the second half, with the annualised 1 122.3m Headline pro t before tax 98.7m run-rate being 7 million.
The costs of achieving these ef ciencies 1 were 7.4 million, and are recorded as non-recurring reorganisation Headline free cash ow 56.1m 52.7m costs below headline pro t before tax.
1 19.5p Headline earnings per share 15.7p 2 As a result of these actions, and after allowing for continued Dividend per share 11.75p 11.75p investment in search engine marketing to drive future sales growth, 3 Net debt to EBITDA 1.2x 1.0x headline operating costs as a percentage of sales reduced by over 1% point in the second half and headline operating costs at constant 1 Headline measures of pro tability and cash ow are fide ned as the relevant reported pro t cash ow measure before reorganisation costs cash ows currency were broadly at year-on-year.
2 2013: includes 5p interim and 6.75p proposed final dividend 3 EBITDA: Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Headline pro t before tax inc. government grants Headline pro t before tax was 98.7 million, a decrease of 23.6 million or 19.3% on the prior year.
Around 10 million of this decrease was due to fewer trading days and adverse currency Sales movements principally due to the weakening of the Euro against The Group delivered annual sales of 1,235.6 million, representing Sterling compared to the prior year.
The remainder of the decrease underlying full-year sales growth of 0.5% despite a challenging re ected the lower gross margin and increase in headline operating economic environment throughout the year.
The sales of our costs at constant currency noted above.
maintenance products 59% of Group sales grew by 3%, From a regional perspective the decrease in headline pro t before tax outperforming those of our electronics products 41% of Group was primarily the result of the International business contribution sales, which declined by 2%.
The continued development of the reducing by 23.0 million, with all regions within International Groups eCommerce channel resulted in eCommerce sales growth impacted by gross margin pressure and negative operating leverage.
of 4% and eCommerce averaged 56% of Group sales during the year.
Continental Europes contribution declined by 8.9 million, North Around three fewer trading days and adverse currency movements America contribution fell by 8.4 million, whilst Asia Paci cs reduced Group reported sales by around 38 million.
Gross margin There was a signi cant improvement in headline pro t before tax Gross margin at 46.0% was 0.8% points below the prior year.
The rate in the second half 57.2 million as compared to the first half of decline was greatest in the first half, when gross margin was 1.2% 41.5 million, primarily re ecting the impact of our actions to points below the prior year, impacted particularly by increased use improve gross margin and control operating costs described above, of customer discounts, stronger performance from lower-margin together with normal seasonality.
technologies and adverse currency movements.
Both UK and International gross margins were impacted by a similar amount.
Reported pro t before tax At the end of the first half we set out a number of actions to improve Reported pro t before tax comprises headline pro t before tax after gross margin during the second half, including a targeted price reorganisation costs.
During the year non-recurring reorganisation differentiation strategy and improved customer discount effectiveness.
costs of 7.4 million were recorded.
These costs primarily related As a result of these actions the decline in gross margin was reduced to redundancy charges arising from the implementation of the signi cantly in the second half to 0.3% points.
18 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report: Business review Taxation Financial position The Groups effective tax rate was 30% of headline pro t before tax, At 31 March 2013 net debt was 159.7 million.
This was 5.5 million a reduction of 1% point from the prior year.
The effective tax rate on higher than last year.
Dividend payments of 51.3 million exceeded reported pro t before tax was 31%, the same rate as in the prior year.
reported free cash ow of 49.3 million.
The balance of the movement The Groups current effective tax rate includes the effect of a signi cant was largely due to finance leases and currency movements.
and continuing increase in the deferred tax liability due to the tax The Groups committed debt finance comprises a syndicated amortisation of overseas goodwill.
This deferred tax liability is not multicurrency facility currency split: US $75 million, 120 million, expected to crystallise in the foreseeable future.
The effective tax rate 50 million from seven banks maturing in November 2015, together was higher than the cash tax rate of 28% of headline pro t before tax, with $150 million of US Private Placement PP Notes, comprising which is expected to increase going forward as prior-year tax losses $65 million with a June 2015 maturity and $85 million with a June are utilised.
Taken together, the Groups committed debt facilities and loans amount to 305.3 million, of which 149.2 million was Headline earnings per share undrawn as at 31 March 2013.
Headline earnings per share of 15.7p decreased by 19% year-on-year, broadly in line with the decrease in headline pro t before tax.
Year end net debt comprised gross borrowings of 169.0 million currency split: 61.3 million US Dollars, 70.6 million Sterling, Dividend 32.0 million Euros and the balance in other currencies and financial The Board is proposing a maintained final dividend of 6.75p per share.
The currency mix is designed to partially hedge This will be paid on 22 July 2013 to shareholders on the register on the Groups translation exposures.
The peak month-end net borrowing 21 June 2013.
As a result, the total dividend for the financial year will during the year using monthly exchange rates was 202.2 million.
be maintained at 11.75p per share, resulting in headline earnings The Groups financial metrics remain strong with net debt to EBITDA dividend cover of 1.3 times.
of 1.2 times and EBITA interest cover of 21.1 times, with signi cant headroom to the Groups banking covenants.
Cash ow Headline free cash ow for the year of 56.1 million was 6% above Pension the prior-year level.
The reduction in headline pro t before tax was The Group has fide ned bene t pension schemes in the UK, Ireland more than offset by lower working capital and lower capital and Germany.
All these schemes are closed to new entrants and in expenditure.
Reported free cash ow for the year was 49.3 million.
Germany the pension scheme is closed to accruals for future service.
This was 6.8 million lower than the headline free cash ow, re ecting Under IAS 19, the combined gross fide cit of the Groups fide ned the cash out ows associated with the reorganisation of the business.
bene t schemes was 19.0 million at 31 March 2013.
This balance As planned, stock turn reduced slightly from 2.6 times to 2.5 times, comprised a 5.7 million fide cit in Germany, 0.9 million fide cit in re ecting additional investment in our electronics range.
Following the the Republic of Ireland and 12.4 million fide cit in the UK.
major investment in systems in North America, UK and Continental The largest fide ned bene t scheme is in the UK where the accounting Europe in the previous year, net capital expenditure reduced by valuation as at 31 March 2013 disclosed a fide cit of 12.4 million 10.4 million as the Groups systems investment moved to Asia Paci c. compared to a surplus of 10.6 million last year before the application In the next year we are planning to invest around 40 million in capital of IFRIC14.
This movement was principally caused by higher liabilities, expenditure to support our medium-term growth ambitions 2013: due to a lower discount rate assumption, partially offset by actuarial 27 million.
This increase in capital expenditure is consistent with the gains caused by returns on assets being higher than expected.
As a planned step-up in investment over the next five years to drive faster result of changing financial assumptions, principally around discount and sales growth, as outlined in the strategy update.
We will continue the in ation rates, we expect the fide ned bene t non-cash pension cost to phased implementation of a new IT system in Asia Paci c. Additional increase in the year ended 31 March 2014 by an additional 1 million.
investment will be targeted at our new strategic priorities, including Amendments to IAS 19 became effective for periods beginning on and further enhancements to the Groups eCommerce functionality, a after 1 January 2013.
We have not adopted these amendments in the business intelligence system to improve our insight capabilities, and Groups 2013 accounts but will adopt them for the first time in the systems to enable the levelling up of the RS and Allied product ranges Groups 2014 accounts.
If these amendments had been applied to the as we move towards a single global offer.
Groups accounts for the financial year ended 31 March 2013, they would have increased the fide ned bene t non-cash pension expense in the income statement by approximately 5 million.
When we publish the Groups accounts for the financial year ending 31 March 2014 we will restate the prior-year pension charge to re ect these amendments.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201319 Business review continued efficiencies were realised following the implementation of the new global operating model INTERNATIONAL CONTINENTAL EUROPE Growth Growth Growth Growth 1 1 2013 2012 reported underlying 2013 2012 reported underlying Sales 860.5m 902.7m 4.7 % 0.8 % Sales 426.2m 456.3m 6.6 % 0.6% Gross margin 44.6% 45.4% Contribution 90.9m 99.8m 8.9 % 3.3 % Operating costs 245.7 m 249.4 m 1.5% 1.4 % Contribution % of sales 21.3% 21.9% Contribution 137.8m 160.8m 14.3 % 11.4 % Contribution % 1 Adjusted for currency: sales also adjusted for trading days of sales 16.0% 17.8% 1 Adjusted for currency: sales also adjusted for trading days Our business in Continental Europe operates in fifteen markets.
The largest of these are France, Germany and Italy, which together comprise around 70% of sales in the region.
The remaining markets The International business represents 70% of Group revenue and are Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Hungary, Ireland, comprises three regions: Continental Europe 50% of the International Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.
business, North America 31% and Asia Paci c 19%.
Following a at underlying sales performance in the first half there During the year, underlying sales declined by 1%, primarily due to a was a slight improvement in underlying sales growth across the region 3% decline in North America sales.
Our Continental Europe business during the second half, resulting in 1% growth for the full year.
During grew sales by 1%, whilst Asia Paci c sales were at.
the year the manufacturing Purchasing Managers Indices PMIs were International eCommerce sales grew by 1%, driven by a strong below 50 in our major European markets, indicative of a contracting performance in Continental Europe which offset declines in manufacturing sector, so we believe that our sales performance re ects eCommerce sales in North America and Asia Paci c. The two latter positively on our initiatives to improve the customer proposition.
regions delivered a signi cant improvement in eCommerce sales The region continued to make good progress expanding its online growth rates in the second half as compared to the first half.
business, generating 10% eCommerce sales growth during the year.
International gross margin declined by 0.8% points over the year, with eCommerce sales share was 66% over the period compared to 61% all regions within International reporting a similar decline.
The decline in the prior year, approaching our Group target of 70%.
Increased eased in the second half to 0.5% points as compared to 1.2% points search engine marketing and the signi cant enhancements to our in the first half.
This re ected the action we took to improve customer websites, which have made the process of buying products clearer, discount effectiveness and implement a targeted price differentiation faster and easier, have supported this performance.
Throughout the year there has been a negative product mix During the year the European business strengthened its leading impact on gross margin due to a stronger sales performance from automation & control offer, expanding its Siemens stocked range lower-margin technologies, such as test & measurement.
to more than 20,000 products and launching the complete Omron International operating costs at constant currency grew by 1.4%.
industrial safety product range across Europe.
As with the gross margin, there was a signi cant improvement in Having taken the decision to defer the European catalogue in the this measure in the second half as compared to the first half, when previous financial year, we reintroduced it this year for the first time operating costs at constant currency grew by 4.4%.
Whilst there it covers the entire Europe, Middle East and Africa region in one continued to be xed cost in ation in the second half, ef ciencies catalogue.
Whilst the catalogue has been received positively by were realised following the implementation of the new global our customers, this means that the year-on-year comparison of operating model and discretionary costs were tightly controlled.
contribution has been adversely impacted by around 1 million, being As a result, operating costs at constant currency declined by 1.6% the costs associated with producing and marketing the catalogue.
The 3% decline in contribution at constant currency re ected a lower As a result of the above-mentioned movements, underlying gross margin and these catalogue costs, together with xed cost contribution at constant currency decreased by 11%.
Contribution in ation in an environment of low sales growth.
as a percentage of sales reduced by 1.8% points to 16.0%.
20 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report: Business review NORTH AMERICA ASIA PACIFIC Growth Growth Growth Growth 1 1 2013 2012 reported underlying 2013 2012 reported underlying Sales 268.6m 277.5m 3.2 % 3.3 % Sales 165.7m 168.9m 1.9 % 0.1 % Contribution 34.9m 43.3m 19.4 % 20.3 % Contribution 12.0m 17.7m 32.2 % 32.4 % Contribution % Contribution % of sales 13.0% 15.6% of sales 7.2% 10.5% 1 Adjusted for currency: sales also adjusted for trading days 1 Adjusted for currency: sales also adjusted for trading days Allied, our North American business, reported an underlying sales The Groups business in Asia Paci c is the regions market leader, decline of 3.3% during the year.
Following a decline of 5.1% in the operating across 13 markets.
Sales across the region are split broadly first half, there was an improvement in sales performance during equally between Japan, Australasia, Greater China and South East the second half.
During the year the region reported at underlying sales growth, re ecting growth in our emerging markets of Greater China and South The second-half improvement did not re ect a change in trading East Asia and declines in Japan and Australasia.
conditions the majority of Allieds sales relate to electronics which remained a dif cult market during both the first half and second half.
Greater China and South East Asia delivered sales growth in both the Instead, the improvement in sales performance re ected a first half and second half, bene ting from the investment in additional combination of easier comparators as the year progressed and products that we have been making in recent years to improve our enhanced sales force productivity following the temporary decline product range, notably in China.
in this during the first half, when the sales force were adapting to Our Japanese business, which is primarily focused on electronics, the new IT system implemented in January 2012. faced particularly dif cult trading conditions during the first nine System enhancements during the second half also improved Allieds months of the financial year.
Tough comparators and deteriorating website functionality and our online sales performance.
eCommerce manufacturing PMIs compounded a dif cult environment for sales declined by 26% in the first half following a temporary reduction electronics globally.
During the final quarter the manufacturing PMI in online functionality but, after the online functionality was restored improved to the neutral 50 level and the rate of sales decline eased.
in the second half, strong eCommerce sales growth returned and the Australasia had a strong first quarter, but this then gave way to a more full-year eCommerce sales decline reduced to 16%.
eCommerce challenging trading environment as the Australian natural resources sales share improved from 32% in the first half to 36% in the second sector slowed.
Against this backdrop the business successfully went half, and is on track to return to the 40% level it reached during the live with a new IT system.
The regions eCommerce performance was impacted by the weak During the year Allied added over 30,000 new products to its portfolio, Japan sales performance, as Japan has a high eCommerce sales including products from new suppliers such as Siemens, Keithley share of around 70%.
As a result, eCommerce sales in Asia Paci c Instruments Tektronix and Yokogawa.
The business extended its product declined by 3% during the year growth of 3% excluding Japan.
range with Panasonic to include passives and semiconductors, and eCommerce sales share over the year was at at around 50%.
signed a new distribution agreement with Orion Power Systems to add its power protection solutions for data and security applications Asia Paci c had considerable success winning large corporate to its product portfolio.
Allieds strong automation & control offer was accounts during the year, securing over 30 new contracts, and the signi cantly enhanced during the year when the business signed regions product offer was enhanced via new agreements with an agreement with Siemens to become an authorised distributor Agilent Technologies and an extended partnership with SMC.
Asia Paci cs contribution as a percentage of sales reduced to 7.2% The 20% reduction in contribution at constant exchange rates from 10.5%, primarily re ecting increased operating costs, due to primarily re ected the negative operating leverage caused by in ation, higher stock costs and investment in marketing initiatives xed cost in ation against a backdrop of lower sales, together to raise our brand awareness, and a reduction in gross margin.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201321 Business review continued UK PROCESSES Growth Growth Change Change 1 1 2013 2012 reported underlying 2013 2012 reported underlying Sales 375.1m 364.7m 2.9% 3.7% Process costs 139.4 m 138.7 m 0.5 % 1.5 % Gross margin 49.3% 50.0% Costs % of sales 11.3 % 11.0 % Operating costs 79.0 m 76.5 m 3.2 % 3.2 % 1 Adjusted for currency Contribution 105.9m 106.0m 0.1 % 0.1 % Contribution % The Processes principally comprise our teams that manage our of sales 28.2% 29.1% Group-wide Marketing, Offer and IT activities, together with Group management and head of ce costs.
Process costs rose by 1.5% 1 Sales adjusted for trading days at constant exchange, primarily re ecting the impact of xed cost in ation offset by ef ciencies following the move to a global Our UK operation, which celebrated its 75th anniversary during operating model.
the year, is the largest high service distributor in its market.
The UK There has been ongoing investment in our initiatives to drive future business reported underlying sales growth of 3.7%, of which 2.3% sales growth.
This includes enhancements to our websites to make points comprised sales of Raspberry Pi both within the UK and it faster and easier to buy products from us.
We have also made internationally.
Raspberry Pi is a low-cost, credit card-sized single-board improvements to our leading suite of technical design tools for computer designed and developed by the Raspberry Pi Foundation, customers.
Version 4.0 of DesignSpark PCB now features a new a charity established to promote computer development skills in library manager, which integrates with ModelSource, a new online education across the world.
As such, it is a lower-margin product.
component library which is freely available as a standalone tool via Excluding the sales of Raspberry Pi products and accessories, the the DesignSpark website.
The libraries are aligned with our product UK business generated 1.4% underlying sales growth.
Maintenance offer and enable engineers to focus on innovation, research and comprises around 75% of the UKs sales, and the relatively low development rather than spending time on creating the basic exposure to the electronics market bene ted the UKs performance.
building blocks of the design.
There was a good performance from our corporate accounts as we We have strengthened existing partnerships with leading global continued to attract new customers and expand our product range brands and added new suppliers to our product portfolio.
RS added with existing accounts.
We also began to sell value-added services over 40,000 new products in the year, with Allied adding over 30,000. to these accounts, such as insight into their procurement behaviour.
We have extended our relationship with Siemens to North America, Corporate accounts now contribute over a quarter of the UKs sales.
added passives and semiconductors to our Panasonic range in North eCommerce revenue grew by 10% during the year, with eCommerce America, expanded our portfolio of Agilent Technologies test & revenue share averaging 62% compared to 58% in the prior year.
This measurement products in Asia Paci c and signed a new distribution strong performance was driven by continued investment in search agreement with Samtec, a leading supplier of connectors, covering engine marketing and search engine optimisation, the development Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Paci c. of our online chat service, Live Chat, and the enhancements made to Following the move to a global operating model we have also signed our websites to make it easier for customers to order and purchase a number of new global freight contracts.
These agreements will products from us.
further improve the service provision to customers and provide Following the 1.4% point reduction in gross margin in the first half, the support for driving sales growth while reducing the total cost of UKs gross margin returned to 50% in the second half, as it bene ted global freight services.
from our actions to improve customer discount effectiveness and our price differentiation strategy versus the competition.
This resulted in a full-year decline in gross margin of 0.7% points which, combined with 3% cost growth from increased sales volumes and in ation, led to an unchanged contribution year-on-year.
Contribution as a percentage of sales was maintained at a strong level in excess of 28%.
22 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report: Business review the group is well placed to capture market share in its international markets and we are therefore increasing investment in our strategic initiatives WATCH SIMONS VIDEO INTERVIEW ONLINE CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK In the first seven weeks of the new financial year, the Group has delivered sales growth of 1%.
The International business grew by 1% and the UK was at.
Within International, Continental Europe grew by 2%, North America grew by 1% and Asia Paci c declined by 1%.
Whilst mindful of challenging economic conditions, we are implementing our common global strategy and expect to make progress towards our medium-term performance goals.
The Group is well placed to capture market share in its international markets and we are therefore increasing investment in our strategic initiatives.
Ian Mason, Group Chief Executive In the next year we are planning to invest around 40 million in capital expenditure to support our Simon Boddie, Group Finance Director medium-term growth 23 May 2013 ambitions To watch Simons video interview visit: www.
com Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201323
