12 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The Board of Directors is responsible for strategy and measuring the Groups progress against strategic objectives.
Executive management is responsible for implementing strategy through a sustainable business model, which is simple and decentralised, and designed to maximise responsiveness to local market conditions and to minimise central overhead costs.
The Group is well placed to take advantage of structural Proven strategy to deliver growth above growth growth opportunities given its broad range of solutions and of global industrial production market leading position in its core geographies.
The Group also expects to benefit from the increasing demand for cable The Group has consistently delivered and is committed to management solutions in growth areas such as alternative continue delivering long-term growth of between 3% and 4% energy, mass transit, and ofce and home equipment markets, above the growth in global industrial production.
Since 2007, where the Group already provides a strong range of cable the Group has achieved a constant currency revenue growth management solutions.
The Group believes that all of these ofapproximately 5.5% CAGR, compared with modest growth trends will help it meet its objective of outperforming growth in industrial production over the same period.
in underlying industrial production levels.
According to Oxford The Groups aim is to continue to implement its strategy of Economics, global industrial production is forecast to grow at extending its leadership in the industry and to be its customers aCAGR of 3.8% in the period from 2013 to 2017. partner of choice by providing consistent, high quality, reliable Through its understanding of local and regional industry and innovative cable management solutions as well as strong requirements, its technical expertise, broad product portfolio customer service.
The following are key elements of the and operational capabilities, the Group intends to take Groups strategy: advantage of the opportunities in these markets to further increase its market share.
t focus on providing cable management solutions for the Groups market segments which have high growth opportunities primarily driven by the increasing demand for Solar case study power and data: t design and produce innovative products and solutions: HellermannTytons EdgeClip has been selected by a global customer that delivers turn-key photovoltaic power t increase customer penetration: installations.
The customer recently faced operational safety t strengthen presence in geographies with high growth issues with its metal-based edge clip solution results from opportunities: and an increase in the direct current voltage in modules from 1 kV to the level of 1.5 kV.
HellermannTytons EdgeClip t continue to invest in the Groups manufacturing and logistics tting solution eliminated the threat of voltage ashovers.
infrastructure in order to maintain high service levels whilst Following a trial phase, HellermannTyton received a blanket minimising overall cost at the point of delivery.
Ov Ov ver er ervi vi vie ew ew w Strategic report Go Go over five vern rn nan an anc ce ce e F Fiinancial s ina nanc n ia all st t tat at atem em emen en ents ts ts O O O Ot Ot ther i he her r in n nfo fo form rm rmat at atio io ion n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 The Group uses a number of key performance indicators KPIs to measure day-to-day operational and financial activity in the business.
Most of these are studied on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
A comprehensive management report, including profit and loss statements for each segment as well as key ratios related to efficiency and customer service, is prepared and provided to the executive management team and the Board on a monthly basis.
The Group has determined that the following KPIs, covering The Group KPIs are shown below: both financial and operational performance, are the most 2013 2012 effective measures of progress towards achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
Constant currency organic sales growth 11.1% 5.3% Key performance indicators Underlying return on sales 15.4% 15.4% Constant currency organic sales growth Underlying EBITDA margin 19.5% 19.5% Constant currency sales growth is a measure of how we are Underlying EPS 22.81 cents 22.23 cents growing our business organically.
We aim to achieve year-onyear organic growth in sales, on a constant currency basis, of CO emissions tonnes per million 2 34% above global industrial production, which excludes the items produced 2.48 2.57 effects of currency translation and acquisitions or divestments.
Underlying return on sales Underlying return on sales is dened as underlying EBITA as a percentage of sales and is a measure of profitability in our business.
Our intention is to maintain a return in the mid-teens throughout the cycle as we continue to invest in resources and infrastructure to grow the business.
A reconciliation of underlying operating profit to reported operating profit is presented on page 16.
Underlying EBITDA margin Our intention is to maintain the underlying EBITDA margin at around the 20% level throughout the cycle as we continue to invest in resources and infrastructure to grow the business.
A reconciliation of underlying EBITDA to reported operating profit is presented on page 16.
Underlying earnings per share Earnings per share EPS is a commonly used measure of financial performance for shareholders.
We aim to achieve growth in underlying basic i. e. undiluted EPS.
Underlying basicEPS is dened as the ratio of underlying earnings for the year to the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Underlying earnings excludes certain non-operational items which are presented in Note 5 ofthe consolidated financial statements.
CO emissions 2 Good environmental practice and the impact that our operations have on the environment are of great importance to HellermannTyton.
CO emissions are dened as tonnes of 2 business miles and electrical and gas usage CO created as a 2 result of the Groups operations per million parts produced by the Groups manufacturing operations.
14 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group revenue in the year ended 31 December 2013 was 538.0 million, 11.1% ahead of 2012 in constant currency and 4.6% ahead at reported rates.
Revenue by geographic segment Growth % Year ended Year ended million 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Reported rates Constant currency EMEA 283.4 270.3 4.8% 7.6% Americas 136.1 128.9 5.6% 12.8% Asian 118.5 115.0 3.0% 17.3% Total revenue 538.0 514.2 4.6% 11.1% Revenue for the EMEA segment was 283.4 million, which is Revenue for the Asian segment was 118.5 million, which 4.8% higher than 2012 and 7.6% higher in constant currency, is 3.0% higher than 2012 and 17.3% higher in constant despite challenging market conditions.
currency as a result of increased sales volumes in the Automotive market.
Revenue for the Americas segment was 136.1 million, which is 5.6% higher than 2012 and 12.8% higher in constant currency, reecting increased sales volumes, particularly in theAutomotive market.
Automotive case study HellermannTyton placed a strong emphasis on working closely with the engineers at a major North American OEM to design, develop and prototype 24 custom and standard fasteners as well as cable channels.
Our involvement in the development stage meant that we were in a strong position to win the production business which was ultimately awarded due to HellermannTytons North American manufacturing and tool-making capabilities and fast design and prototype turnaround time.
The harness is being assembled in the Philippines and shippedto the US for assembly onto the vehicle, so our An additional benefit is that the fasteners have all been added globalmanufacturing and supply chain capabilities mean to the OEMs global parts list and have begun to be introduced thatwe are able to supply the harness maker directly from across all of its car lines, resulting in increased revenue growth ouroperations in the region.
opportunities globally beyond this platform.
