REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Argos business review Argos will undertake a three-year investment programme to reinvent itself as a digital retail leader.
Argos outlined in October 2012 a five-year including Check & Reserve, grew 10% to reach transformation plan designed to address its 42% of Argos total sales, with the remaining 9% competitive challenges, exploit marketplace of multi-channel sales comprising products opportunities and restore it to sustainable either ordered in-store for home delivery, or growth.
Under the plan Argos will undertake by telephone.
The fastest growing channel a three-year investment programme to reinvent continues to be online Check & Reserve, which itself as a digital retail leader, effectively grew 11% to represent 31% of total sales.
moving from a catalogue-led to a digitally-led Total website and app visits increased by business.
There are four key elements to the 24% compared to last year.
The ease of access to transformation plan: Argos website through mobile devices has been Reposition Argos channels for a digital future a significant driver of the increase in web visits, Argos will develop its online, mobile and with visits to the website from mobile devices up tablet channels to be the primary channels 116%.
The Argos Apple iPhone and Android apps for interacting and communicating with continue to be a popular way to access Argos customers.
Stores and catalogues will remain products with over 1.6m downloads of the apps important but their roles will be adapted in in the year.
The high level of visits from mobile order to support a digital offer: devices has led to a significant increase in the Provide more product choice, which is proportion of sales through the mobile channel available to customers faster Few which have doubled in the year and now companies in the UK can match Argos ability represent 10% of Argos total sales.
to move as many non-food products, of all A number of projects were initiated during Stores remain a key shapes and sizes, into local markets on a the year to begin repositioning our channels for component of the Argos national scale in a fast and cost-efficient way.
The website was relaunched in multi-channel model Argos is well positioned through its store October 2012 to provide improved functionality, estate and supply chain to offer same-day search ability and look and feel.
A 1-click Check and next-day fulfilment on a wider range & Reserve function was launched in October of products: 2012 which improves the speed and convenience Develop a customer offer that has universal of reserving products for store collection.
An appeal Argos has a substantial opportunity improved mobile site and an iPad tablet app were to grow the business by expanding its also launched before Christmas 2012. customer reach with a more universally In January 2013, Argos commenced a trial appealing offer, including extended ranges of a different Argos catalogue format in the of branded and own-brand product: and north east of England, with a catalogue with a Website and app visits Operate a leaner and more flexible cost base reduced number of product lines, combined with increased by 24% Argos will maintain its focus on costs and extended product ranges available online for compared to last year it will target further cost reductions to help both immediate and next day store collection.
fund the investment in the transformation During the 2013 14 financial year, Argos plan, while continuing to take the expects to continue towards its strategic opportunity at store lease expiration to repositioning of its channels.
It intends to obtain reduced terms on leases it chooses develop a digital catalogue with the first one to renew.
Future lease renewals provide being launched before Christmas.
A number of ongoing flexibility to adjust the store store trials will also start which will include more portfolio to strategic and market conditions.
innovation with web-based browsers replacing catalogues, Wi-fi which will enable customers Operational review to use their smartphones and tablets in stores, A further 700 exclusive and Reposition Argos channels for a digital future and a fast-track collection service for goods own-brand lines are included Multi-channel sales continue to grow and now purchased online or via a mobile device.
in the latest catalogue represent 2.0bn or 51% of Argos total sales, up from 48% last year.
Total internet orders, 12 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION Argos key facts Sales m Number of stores Argos sales increased by 1.5% During the year, 11 stores were 4,347 751 748 745 4,282 737 730 4,194 or 58m in total.
This was driven closed, reducing the store portfolio 3,931 3,873 predominantly by strong growth in to 737.
Around 110 stores have been tablets and e-readers.
There was also refurbished in the year bringing the strong growth in white goods and total number of refurbished stores core electricals, which helped to to date to 460.
All 737 stores offer offset declines in video games around 16,000 product lines for systems, photographic, homewares collection, with an additional 4,000 and seasonal categories.
lines available to order from any store for home delivery.
Definitions: Income received from goods and services.
Definitions: Total number of stores at Source: Audited financial statements.
09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Sales trends % change Number of lines in the main 0.9 1.5 catalogue Spring Summer 23,900 23,300 Like-for-like sales increased by 2.1% 3.5 1.5 in the year.
Net closed space reduced With 19,900 lines, the Spring Summer 7.7 sales by 0.6%.
2.1 Definition: Annual percentage change in This decrease has been primarily in sales.
Like-for-like sales are calculated on 0.6 the furniture and jewellery categories, stores that have been open for more than a partially offset by increases in nursery year: and the contribution to sales from net space is the sales performances for the first and toys and new categories such as 52 weeks trading of any newly opened stores health and beauty.
less the sales performances for the last 52 weeks of any stores that have been closed.
Definition: Total number of lines in the main Source: Audited financial statements Spring Summer Argos catalogue.
09 10 11 12 13 Like-for-like Space 09 10 11 12 13 Benchmark operating profit Sales across more than 51 Operating profit margin m and margin % one channel % 48 46 7.1% Benchmark operating profit increased 43 Multi-channel sales grew to over 6.1% 5.2% by 7% or 6m, to 100m.
This recovery 40 51% or 2.0bn of sales.
The internet in profit was due to an improved level represented 42% of sales: over two- 2.6% of sales, partially offset by a reduction thirds of this or 31% of total sales 304 2.4% in the gross margin rate.
It was further were customers using online Check 266 supported by an overall cost base & Reserve for store collection.
through the mobile commerce channel, which is included within Definition: Benchmark operating profit internet sales, now represent 10% is defined as operating profit before of total sales, an increase from 5% amortisation of acquisition intangibles, 100 last year.
94 store impairment and onerous lease charges or releases and exceptional items.
Definition: Percentage of sales across Source: Audited financial statements.
There are three ordering channels: the internet, phone or store and two fulfilment channels, store or home delivery.
Check & Reserve internet Check & Reserve phone Home delivery internet Home delivery phone Home delivery store FOR ALL CHARTS, 2012 IS ON A 52-WEEK PRO FORMA BASIS.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 13 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Argos business review continued Provide more product choice, available to customers, achieving high recall scores in customers faster analysis following Christmas 2012 trading.
Argos is well positioned to offer, cost effectively, Argos Facebook page has increased in popularity a wide range of products for rapid fulfilment.
with 630,000 likes and Twitter is a popular The key to Argos fulfilment advantage will be way for customers to find out about Argos a hub and spoke distribution model, utilising latest offers.
existing Argos stores and replenishment Argos is a leading value retailer and remains capabilities.
This will enable Argos to offer highly price competitive, supported by the market-leading immediacy of fulfilment on a Groups sourcing scale and infrastructure wider range of products.
Trials began in January advantages, together with the benefit of Argos 2013 to test both the operational and customer low-cost operating model.
Argos competitive offer aspects of this new network.
price position is measured weekly using internet price comparisons to maintain a price position Develop a customer offer that has better than the competition on its highest universal appeal volume lines.
Argos offers around 900 WOW Tablets were a strong driver of growth in the deals in the catalogue including some of the financial year, with Argos adding to its range of biggest consumer brand names.
products to ensure a strong position in this competitive market.
New devices from Apple, Operate a leaner, more flexible cost base Samsung, Asus and Google have all been added Stores, which provide a national chain of pick to the range in the last year.
Childrens tablet up points, remain a key component of the devices from LeapPad and Vtech have also been Argos multi-channel model, with nearly 90% a strong contributor to growth.
of all sales involving a store.
Stores are also Argos has further enhanced its convenience strategically important to Argos transformation credentials with an increased range of white plan to become a digital retail leader.
However, goods available for in-store collection, following over the next five years Argos has around 275 last years successful trial, allowing customers to store lease renewals or break clauses due.
Using pick up a range of white goods from around 450 this flexibility, Argos will focus on improving its larger stores.
Other categories which saw good store network by relocating or closing some growth during the year included core electricals older stores and opening some new stores if and toys.
In the last financial Argos suite of 35 exclusive or own-brands year there were 11 store closures and two continue to extend choice and offer great value relocations, leading to a reduction in the store to customers, with an increase of around 700 portfolio to 737 stores.
This level of store lines in the Spring Summer 2013 catalogue closures was consistent with its plans at the start compared to last year from its Alba, Bush, Chad of the year.
In the 2013 14 financial year, it is Valley, Hygena, Schreiber and Habitat ranges.
expected there will be around 10 store closures, Customer service levels continue to improve, where the lease has come to an end, alongside a with measures of customer experience strong number of additional stores that are likely to be throughout the year.
Argos Aliens TV advertising relocated to better sites.
campaign continues to be well received by 14 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION Financial review Total operating and distribution costs decreased Total sales in the 52 weeks to 2 March 2013 by 10m with the impact of underlying cost increased by 1.5% to 3,931m.
Net space sales inflation pressures being more than offset by change reduced sales by 0.6% with 11 store further cost savings.
This was a particularly closures reducing the store portfolio to 737. strong performance given the sales growth Like-for-like sales grew by 2.1%.
Consumer delivered during the financial year.
Benchmark electronics continued to deliver an improved operating profit was 100.3m, a 6.1m or 6% sales performance driven by strong growth in increase on the previous years 94.2m.
keep up to date with the latest tablets and e-readers, which together with Argos news and information good growth in white goods and core electricals via our corporate website more than offset the market-driven declines in www.
com the video gaming and photography categories and the weaker trading in homewares and seasonal products.
Following a slight decline last year, Argos achieved an overall marketshare gain across the total of its tracked market categories.
52 WEEkS TO 2 mARCH 2013 25 FEBRUARY 2012 The gross margin rate was down by approximately 50 basis points.
The negative Sales m 3,931.3 3,872.6 drivers were an adverse sales mix, resulting Benchmark operating profit m 100.3 94.2 from the improved performance in the margin-dilutive consumer electronics category, Benchmark operating margin 2.6% 2.4% and ongoing price investment.
These reductions were partially offset by the expected benefit Like-for-like sales change 2.1% 8.9% from a lower level of stock clearance activity Net space sales change 0.6% 1.2% and the anticipated benefit of favourable Total sales change 1.5% 7.7% currency and reduced shipping costs.
Since June 2011 Argos has been trialling a Gross margin rate movement Down c. 50bps Down c. 50bps TV shopping channel concept.
Following the Benchmark operating profit change 6% 57% announcement of the Argos transformation plan in October 2012, the decision has been taken to Number of stores at year-end 737 748 cease operation of the channel from May 2013.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 15
