REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Homebase business review Homebase is to position itself as a clearly differentiated, multi-channel home enhancement retailer.
The Homebase strategy is to position itself as Homebase completed seven further mezzanine a clearly differentiated multi-channel home refits and one midi refit during the year, all of enhancement retailer, creating both a store and which incorporated the premium Odina and online experience, with a softer, more stylish Schreiber ranges.
The total number of mezzanine female-friendly proposition.
Homebase has commenced a trial of The premium Odina range is now displayed dramatically different store formats, supported in 28 stores, with a further four stores carrying by increased levels of staff service which creates the space-efficient, small-format solution.
a shopping experience where customers find The Schreiber kitchen range was extended to ideas and inspiration for their homes and 136 stores following a low-cost investment gardens.
The in-store experience is supported programme which includes an edited range by an enhanced multi-channel offer which on display or a carcass display showcasing improves product availability and a website construction, material quality and examples which offers information, advice and inspiration.
Homebase has developed a strong range of Homebase has continued its programme exclusive brands like Habitat, Laura Ashley, of garden centre refits, which incorporate Odina, Schreiber and Qualcast, which give it inspirational garden displays to provide a clear point of customer differentiation and ideas, supported by practical advice from competitive advantage.
This will accelerate knowledgeable colleagues.
Twelve refits the development of Homebase as a destination were completed in the year, bringing the for a broader range of home and garden projects, total number to 34.
Homebases new mobile securing a larger share of customer spend and a website already accounts higher frequency of visit.
Accelerating multi-channel for 16% of total web visits Internet sales participation has grown by 16% Operational review year-on-year to almost 5% of Homebases total New format development sales.
Within this, Reserve and Collect sales Following the success of the new store grew 27% to comprise 1.5% of Homebases total proposition in Aylesford, the next evolution of sales while website visits increased by 23% over this concept was opened in the Ruislip store at last year.
The learnings from During the year, Homebase launched a Aylesford were used to improve further the refreshed website to showcase its exclusive proposition and included both a Habitat and a brand strategy.
In October 2012, Homebase Laura Ashley concession.
In December, Solihull launched a mobile website, which is Our installation services continue was refitted as part of a planned downsizing, transactional for both home-delivery items to receive recommendation rates and a Habitat concession was opened in the and store reservations and which already above 90% Ewell store.
accounts for 16% of total web visits.
Habitat products are now available in over 200 Homebase stores 16 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION Homebase key facts Sales m Number of stores 349 345 341 341 336 Homebase sales decreased by 5.2% During the year, five stores were 1,572 1,551 1,513 1,510 or 79m in total.
Seasonal categories closed reducing the store portfolio 1,431 accounted for the majority of the to 336.
Homebase completed seven decline as a result of the inclement further mezzanine refits and one weather during Homebases 2012 midi refit during the year, all of which peak trading period.
Big ticket incorporated the premium Odina and sales were also lower reflecting Schreiber ranges.
The total number of a challenging market.
Other mezzanine refits now stands at 26. categories were marginally down.
Definitions: Total number of stores at yearend.
Mezzanine stores contain a mezzanine Definitions: Income received for goods selling floor which is typically used to display and services.
09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Non-mezzanine With mezzanine Sales trends % change Sales per square foot 3.5 99 Like-for-like sales decreased by 4.9% 98 Sales per square foot based on total 97 95 93 in the year.
Net closed space reduced year-end selling space decreased to 3.9 sales by 0.3%.
The reduction in the year was driven mainly by lower overall sales, Definition: Annual percentage change in due to the combination of poor sales.
Like-for-like sales are calculated on seasonal sales throughout the first stores that have been open for more than half of 2012 and a challenging big a year: the contribution to sales from net ticket market throughout the year.
space is the sales performances for the first 52 weeks trading of any newly opened stores 4.9 Definitions: Annual sales divided by less the sales performances for the last 52 1.4 year-end total selling space.
weeks of any stores that have been closed.
2.6 Source: Audited financial statements Source: Audited financial statements 0.3 measured internally.
5.2 09 10 11 12 13 Like-for-like Space 09 10 11 12 13 Benchmark operating profit m and margin % Operating profit margin Benchmark operating profit decreased by 52% or 12m, to 11m.
This decline 3.1% in profit was as a result of the negative 2.6% sales performance, partially offset by 1.5% an improved gross margin rate and a 1.0% 0.8% cost base reduction of 2%.
48 41 Definition: Benchmark operating profit is defined as operating profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, store impairment and onerous lease charges or releases and exceptional items.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 17 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Homebase business review continued Exclusive brands As part of Homebases social media A key differentiator for Homebase is its strong development, in May 2012 the first ever portfolio of exclusive brands, such as Habitat, Homebase Facebook app was launched, enabling Laura Ashley, Qualcast, Odina and Schreiber.
customers to ask an expert a question.
During the year, Homebase has accelerated this Homebase posts on Facebook have been viewed strategy with Habitat and Laura Ashley over 3.2 million times in the year.
The Qualcast brand has been redesigned the new Homebase YouTube channel extended into hand tools and watering products with over 1.2 million video views in the year.
with sales growth approximately doubling year-on-year.
Store estate Habitat products are now available in over As part of Homebases ongoing management 200 Homebase stores, including ranges in of the store portfolio, in the last financial year furniture, paint, wallpaper and tiling.
Habitat there were five store closures, leading to a gives the Homebase customer greater choice reduction in the store portfolio to 336 stores.
with premium quality, contemporary styling, as This level of store closures was consistent with well as some iconic designs that have been best its plans at the start of the year.
Homebase will sellers for many years.
continue to examine the opportunity for store closures, relocations or downsizes as either Loyalty programme leases expire or lease break clauses occur.
Over Homebase connects with over seven million the next five years, Homebase has around 70 active Nectar customers and Nectar has store lease renewals or break clauses due.
In the a participation rate of more than 60% of 2013 14 financial year, it is expected there will Homebases sales.
During the year, promotional be around 10 store closures.
mechanics continued to be trialled through direct communication, targeting customers based upon their spending behaviour.
Homebase continues to drive sales with events such as triple points weekends and category-specific points promotions.
Over 19 million direct mail packs were sent to customers to increase brand engagement resulting in significantly increased spend per customer.
18 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION Financial review The gross margin rate improved by approximately Total sales in the 52 weeks to 2 March 2013 75 basis points.
The key positive drivers were the decreased by 5.2% to 1,431m.
Net space sales anticipated benefit of favourable currency and change reduced sales by 0.3% with five store reduced shipping costs, a beneficial sales mix closures reducing the store portfolio to 336. over the year and a reduced level of customer Like-for-like sales declined by 4.9%.
Seasonal participation of promotional offers.
These product sales were adversely impacted by record benefits were partially offset by an increased poor weather conditions, particularly in the first level of seasonal stock clearance activity.
keep up to date with the half of the year, while big ticket sales were lower Total operating and distribution costs latest Homebase news overall, reflecting the continuing challenging reduced by 17m with the impact of underlying and information via our market.
Remaining categories were slightly cost inflation pressures being more than offset corporate website down.
Homebase continued to increase its by further cost savings.
com market share in the DIY sheds market as reported profit was 11.0m, a 11.8m or 52% decline on by the independent third party, GfK, with this the previous years 22.8m.
latest gain being its fourth consecutive year of market-share growth.
52 WEEkS TO 2 mARCH 2013 25 FEBRUARY 2012 Sales m 1,430.7 1,509.8 Benchmark operating profit m 11.0 22.8 Benchmark operating margin 0.8% 1.5% Like-for-like sales change 4.9% 2.0% Net space sales change 0.3% 0.6% Total sales change 5.2% 2.6% Gross margin rate movement Up c. 75bps c. 0bps Benchmark operating profit change 52% 52% Number of stores at year-end 336 341 Of which contain a mezzanine floor 186 187 Store selling space at year-end million sq ft 15.4 15.6 Of which garden centre area 3.6 3.6 mezzanine floor area 1.8 1.8 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 19
