12 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Operational excellence Common s tructures, smarter sourcing, impr oved production ef ciency Meggitt is no stranger to operational excellence.
In 2007, these However, with a new functional head comes the savings look set to double, encouraging us to approach opportunity to identify areas of best practice from strategic sourcing from a global Meggitt perspective each of our businesses and create a network through and leverage the groups collective supply chain talent.
which all Meggitts experts in the eld can share and Beyond sourcing, we are setting out a purchasing solve problems and ensure the best standards are strategy for all our commodities in the context of local, everyones standards.
As we continue to develop common structures and In 2006, we expanded, consolidated and relocated approaches to project and programme management, several manufacturing facilities.
We expanded our Meggitt businesses will collaborate more, use polymers plant in Leicestershire, UK to accommodate resources better and expand customer services.
a nearby related facility, we doubled the size of our In 2006, our sensing systems and wheel and brakes sensors and controls facility in China and we are in the businesses reaped the rewards of a redesigned new process of expanding our Swiss condition monitoring product introduction process which delivered a more factory.
Vibro-Meter in the US and in the UK, Meggitt disciplined approach to product development, better Defence Systems, Ashford and Meggitt Thermal technical and commercial risk management, renewed Systems, Dunstable formerly Avica relocated locally.
focus on the return on investment in the context of We consolidated Meggitt Airdynamics with Whittaker business planning and a high degree of customer Controls and, in 2007, three defence systems businesses satisfaction and compliance.
will merge onto one site in California.
And we are enjoying the bene ts of smarter direct Every move, consolidation or expansion has deployed and indirect sourcing.
In 2006, the group saved around process reengineering to improve the way things are 2 million on industrial gases, telecoms, stationery, done as well as where they are done and there were packaging, consumable tooling, factory supplies, plaudits from signi cant customers who experienced logistics and travel andless than two years since operationally seamless transfers and transformations.
its inceptionour international purchasing of ce in All projects showed how improved production ef ciency Singapore saved the group around 1 million, working goes hand in hand with the well-being of people at with around two thirds of our businesses on machined work in attractive spacesgood working environments parts, castings, electronic printed circuits, components, where people can do their best.
Alan Lee Director Asia Procurement, Meggitt Asia Paci c, Singapore With K G Lim, Quality & Engineering Manager Strategic Procurement centre and Roy Lee, Strategic Procurement Manager right Whether you are in curtains involve people more than or connectors, the art of bricks and mortar.
Two procurement is about working years after we launched our across functionsand having international purchasing a vision.
of ce in Singapore in 2004, we reduced costs across the Before joining Meggitt, group and saw the corporate I thought nothing could face of Meggitt and its buying match the excitement of power rise to the fore in sourcing millions of dollars Asia.
Now we are part of a worth of product in Asia and compelling global initiative then replacing external based on marshalling the sourcing with on-the-ground entire groups collective supply manufacturing here.
I helped chain talent into a truly build two factoriesand even strategic materials organisation ran one for a while.
that could save the group over Meggitt already manufactures $25 million a year.
Now thats in Asia and its sourcing goals what I call a vision.
Operational excellence, satis ed customers Dunlop Aerospace Braking Systems ultra high life brake-by-wire system for the Embraer Phenom 300 Light Jet programme is the first to be put through the companys new product introduction process.
All milestones were met on or before their due dates.
Joint Strike Fighter Multiple Meggitt companies have won product contracts on state-of-the-art combat aircraft such as the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
Wheels and brakes, speed sensors and a thermal management system are some of them.
We will continue to ensure we understand what our government and defence customers want so we can access development funding and secure positions on the new military projects that will feed our programme pipeline.
