STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements.
consistently: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for each financial year.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the explained in the financial statements.
Group financial statements under IFRSs IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply with the Companies International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the the corporate and financial information included on the Companys International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance from legislation in other jurisdictions.
However, directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: 36 MELROSE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006
