NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the fourth Annual General Meeting of 9.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities the Directors be the Company will be held at the offices of Investec at 2 Gresham generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Street, London, EC2V 7QP at 11.00 a. m. on 14 May 2007 for the section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all following purposes: the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of that section up to an aggregate nominal ORDINARY BUSINESS amount of 85,710.
This authority will expire unless previously 1.
To receive the Companys audited financial statements for the renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general financial year ended 31 December 2006, together with the meeting 15 months after the date of the passing of this Directors report and the Auditors report on those financial resolution or at the conclusion of the next Annual General statements.
Meeting of the Company following the passing of this resolution, whichever first occurs, save that the Company may 2.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or 31 December 2006. might require relevant securities to be allotted after expiry of this authority and the Directors may allot relevant securities in 3.
To re-elect Mr Perry Crosthwaite, who retires by rotation, pursuance of that offer or agreement as if the authority as a Director of the Company.
conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To re-elect Mr Geoffrey Martin, who retires by rotation, 10.
That, in substitution for all existing powers, and subject to the as a Director of the Company.
passing of resolution 9, the Directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities 5.
To elect Mr John Grant, who has been appointed as a Director within the meaning of section 94 2 of the Act for cash since the last Annual General Meeting, as a director of the pursuant to the general authority conferred by resolution 9 Company.
as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to the allotment, provided that the power conferred by this resolution: 6.
To elect Mr Miles Templeman, who has been re-appointed as a director since the last Annual General Meeting, as a director a will expire unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by of the Company.
the Company in general meeting 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution or at the conclusion of the 7.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company next Annual General Meeting of the Company following the to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the passing of this resolution, whichever first occurs, save that conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company the Company may before such expiry make an offer or at which accounts are laid and to authorise the Directors to agreement which would or might require equity securities to determine their remuneration.
be allotted after expiry of this power and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement SPECIAL BUSINESS as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed, in the case of resolutions 8 and 9, b is limited to: as ordinary resolutions and, in the case of resolution 10 as a i. allotments of equity securities in connection with a rights special resolution: issue: and ii.
allotments of equity securities for cash otherwise than 8.
That the Directors Remuneration report contained in the pursuant to paragraph i up to an aggregate nominal Companys Report and Financial statements for the year ended value of 12,856.
MELROSE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 81 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued NOTES For the purposes of this resolution 10, rights issue means an offer These notes are important and require your immediate attention.
of equity securities, open for acceptance for a period fixed by the Directors, to holders of Ordinary Shares made in proportion as 1.
The holders of Ordinary Shares and Convertible B Shares in the nearly as may be to their respective existing holdings of Ordinary Company are entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting, Shares but subject to the Directors having but only holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to vote.
A a right to make such exclusions or other arrangements in member entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy or connection with the offer as they deem necessary or expedient: proxies to attend and on a poll to vote on their behalf.
A proxy a to deal with equity securities representing fractional need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
To be effective, a b to deal with legal or practical problems arising in any overseas form of proxy must be completed, signed and deposited with territory or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary the Companys registrars at the address specified on the form receipts, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock of proxy not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the exchange, or any matter whatsoever.
meeting together with any authority under which it is executed or a notarially certified copy of such authority.
Depositing a The power conferred on the Directors by this resolution 10 shall completed form of proxy will not preclude a member from also apply to a sale of Treasury Shares, which is an allotment of attending the meeting and voting in person.
equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of the Act but with the omission of the words pursuant to the general authority conferred 3.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities by resolution 9.
Regulations 2001, to be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purposes of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys By order of the Board Registered office register of members by 6.00 pm on 11 May 2007.
Changes Precision House to entries on the register of members after this time shall be GARRY E BARNES Arden Road disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend COMPANY SECRETARY Alcester or vote at the meeting.
Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting: a the register of Directors interests in shares of the Company: b copies of all service agreements under which Directors of the Company are employed by the Company or any subsidiaries: and c a copy of the terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors of the Company.
82 MELROSE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CONTENTS HARTWELL RECENTLY DEVELOPED THIS LATCH FOR BOMBARDIERS LEARJET 45 MAIN ENTRY DOOR MECHANISM.
THE UNIQUE DESIGN ELIMINATES A COMMON PROBLEM OF FINISH DETERIORATION BY AUTOMATICALLY LIFTING THE EXTERNAL HANDLE OFF THE SURFACE OF THE DOOR WHEN OPERATED FROM INSIDE THE AIRCRAFT.
1 Highlights 2 Melrose at a glance 4 Chairmans statement 6 Chief Executives review 8 Business review 16 Finance Directors Review 22 Board of Directors 24 Directors report 28 Corporate governance report 32 Remuneration report 36 Statement of Directors responsibilities 37 Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose PLC on the consolidated financial statements 38 Consolidated income statement 39 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 40 Consolidated balance sheet 41 Consolidated cash flow statement 42 Notes to the accounts 70 Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose PLC on the parent Company financial statements 71 Company balance sheet for Melrose PLC 72 Notes to the Company balance sheet 80 Company and shareholder information 81 Notice of Annual General Meeting Designed and produced by Merchant.
Printed by Granite MELROSE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 MELROSE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Melrose PLC Cleveland House 33 King Street London SW1Y 6RJ Tel: 44 0 20 7766 7670 Fax: 44 0 20 7766 7671 www.
