Accounting policies The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with management to make estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 equal the related actual results.
that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements arise in relation to revenue recognition, the impairment of intangible assets, recognition Misys adopted IFRS with a transition date of 1 June 2004.
Comparative figures for the year ended 31 May 2005 and the Groups balance sheet of provisions in respect of onerous property contracts, regulatory reviews and complaints provisions and the recognition of deferred tax as at 31 May 2005 that were previously reported in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom UK assets.
The accounting policies in respect of these items are set out below and details of the estimates and judgements impacting the GAAP have been restated to comply with IFRS, with the exception of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 financial statements are set out in notes 17, 26 and 27.
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement which have been applied prospectively from 1 June 2005.
Revenue recognition Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting receivable from clients for goods and services provided by the Group, net of discounts and sales taxes.
Standards allows certain exemptions from the retrospective application of IFRS prior to 1 June 2004.
Where these exemptions Revenue from system sales is recognised when a signed contract have been used, they are explained under the relevant headings below.
The consolidated financial information has been prepared exists, delivery to a customer has occurred with no significant vendor obligations remaining and where the collection of the resulting under the historical cost convention, except as described under the heading Financial Instruments.
In instances where a significant vendor obligation exists, revenue recognition is delayed until the Basis of consolidation obligation has been satisfied.
No revenue is recognised for multiple deliveries or multiple element products if an element of the contract The Groups financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Misys plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
remains undelivered and is essential to the functionality of the elements already delivered.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a Maintenance fees are recognised rateably over the period of the subsidiary are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the contract.
EDI and remote processing services transaction processing are recognised as the services are performed.
identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of Revenue from professional services, such as implementation, identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to income in the period of acquisition.
training and consultancy, is recognised as the services are performed.
Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period have been included Revenue on certain larger composite contracts is recognised in the financial statements from the date of acquisition.
Subsidiary undertakings disposed of are included in the financial statements up on a percentage of completion basis over the period from the commencement of performance on the contract to customer to the date of disposal.
Accordingly, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the acceptance.
The degree of completion of a contract is measured using the costs incurred to date or milestones reached, depending consolidated cash flow statement include the results and cash flows for the period of ownership.
upon the nature of the individual contract and the most appropriate measure of the percentage of completion.
Losses on contracts are Recent accounting developments recognised as soon as a loss is foreseen by reference to the estimated costs of completion.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures was issued in August 2005 and is required to be implemented by Misys from 1 June 2007.
Within Sesame, commission revenue received from insurers based This new standard incorporates the disclosure requirements of IAS 32, which it supersedes, and adds further quantitative and qualitative on gross premiums written is presented gross of commission payable to Independent Financial Advisors IFAs and is recognised when disclosures in relation to financial instruments.
These disclosures will be made in future periods.
Annual fees received from certain IFAs for industry training, compliance support and access to Misys networks listing of IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 applicable from 1 May 2006 addresses the insurance providers and products are recognised over the relevant subscription period.
issue of whether IFRS 2 applies to transactions in which the entity cannot specifically identify some or all of the goods and services Share incentive schemes received.
This interpretation is not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
The Group operates several equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives applicable from the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to 1 June 2006 prohibits reassessment of the treatment of embedded derivatives subsequent to initial recognition unless there is a change the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any nonmarket vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that otherwise would occur under the contract, in which case targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, a revised estimate is made of the Critical accounting estimates and judgements number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
If the revised estimate differs from the original estimate, the charge to the Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future income statement is adjusted over the remaining vesting period of the options.
events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Page 62 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 Pensions Foreign currencies The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes Items included in the financial statements of Group companies are covering the majority of its employees.
The costs of these pension measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in schemes are charged to the income statement as incurred.
In addition, which each entity operates, their functional currency.
The consolidated the Group has a closed funded defined benefit pension scheme in the financial statements are presented in sterling.
UK, as well as a number of other smaller defined benefit arrangements outside the UK.
The remaining active members of the closed UK Each overseas operation translates foreign currency transactions defined benefit scheme now contribute to a defined contribution section into their own functional currency at rates ruling at the date of each of the scheme.
Full independent actuarial valuations are carried out on transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are at least a triennial basis and updated to each balance sheet date.
The retranslated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date, and currency assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
translation differences are recognised in the income statement.
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values.
Pension On consolidation, the results of overseas operations are translated to scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and sterling at the average exchange rate for the period, and their assets discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The pension balance sheet date.
Currency translation differences are recognised scheme surplus to the extent that it is recoverable or deficit is in the translation reserve.
recognised in full on the balance sheet.
Any current or past service cost is recognised in the income statement.
The net of the expected Exchange gains and losses on foreign currency borrowings used to increase in the present value of the schemes liabilities, and the finance an equity investment in an overseas operation are offset in Groups long-term expected return on its schemes assets, are reserves against the exchange differences arising on the retranslation included in the income statement.
of the net investment, up to the level of the investment.
The exchange differences on any ineffective portion are recognised in the income Any difference arising from experience or assumption changes and statement.
differences between the expected return on assets and those actually achieved are charged or credited to the statement of total recognised Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a income and expense as they arise.
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the When a foreign operation is disposed, the accumulated translation lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership differences that relate to it are removed from equity and recognised to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases are As permitted under IFRS 1, cumulative translation differences in capitalised in the balance sheet at the lower of cost or present value respect of foreign operations have been deemed to be nil at of the minimum lease payments and are depreciated over their 1 June 2004. useful lives.
The capital elements of future obligations under leases are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest elements The Group hedges its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks of the lease obligations are charged to income on an actuarial basis using derivatives and foreign currency borrowings.
Details of the over the period of the lease.
Rentals paid under operating leases are accounting policies in respect of these are given in the financial charged to income on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Onerous property contracts Intangible assets goodwill Provision for onerous lease commitments is based on an estimate Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the consideration, net of the net unavoidable lease payments on these properties, being the of costs, less the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable rental due, plus any termination costs, less any income expected to assets and liabilities acquired.
be derived from the properties being sublet.
The provisions are discounted at an appropriate rate to take into account the effect of Goodwill is recognised as an intangible asset and reviewed for the time value of money.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently Taxation reversed.
Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, together with deferred taxation.
Deferred taxation is recognised, using the liability On the disposal of a previously acquired subsidiary, the attributable method, in respect of all temporary differences that have originated amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or loss on disposal.
events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being Resultant deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it tested for impairment at that date.
As permitted under IFRS 1, is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1 June 1998 underlying temporary differences can be deducted, or where there has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any are deferred tax liabilities against which the assets can be recovered.
subsequent gain or loss on disposal.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that Contingent consideration are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, Where part or all of the amount of purchase consideration is based on tax rates and laws enacted at the balance sheet date.
contingent on future events, the cost of acquisition initially recorded is a reasonable estimate of the fair value of amounts expected to be Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement payable in the future.
except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also dealt with in equity.
Page 63 Accounting policies continued The cost of acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the with corresponding adjustments continuing to be made to goodwill lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows until the ultimate outcome is known.
These liabilities are reported cash-generating units.
under provisions in the balance sheet.
Inventories Other intangible assets and research and development expenditure Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Research expenditure, including the cost of in-house software Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
research, is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
Financial instruments Software development expenditure is capitalised when the Group is Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance able to demonstrate all of the following: the technical feasibility of sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the resulting asset: the ability and intention to complete the the instrument.
A more detailed description of the accounting policy development and use or sell it: how the asset will generate probable for each type of significant financial instrument is given below: future economic benefits: and the ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the asset during its development.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at Development costs which do not meet these criteria are recognised amortised cost, as the carrying value is reduced by appropriate in the income statement as incurred and are not subsequently allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Investments Capitalised development costs are normally amortised on a straight Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where line basis over their useful economic lives, once the related software a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms product is available for use.
require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned.
Investments are initially measured at fair Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software licences that value, equating to cost, including transaction costs.
do not form an integral part of related hardware, are capitalised at cost and amortised over their useful economic lives.
Intangible assets Investments are subsequently measured at fair value unless this acquired through a business combination are initially measured at fair cannot be measured reliably by reference to quoted prices in an value and amortised over their useful economic lives.
active market, in which case they continue to be measured at historical cost, net of any impairment.
Estimated useful lives by major class of assets are as follows: Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according Acquired intangibles 4-10 years to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest Developed software 3-5 years in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Third party software 3-5 years Bank borrowings Property, plant and equipment Borrowings are initially stated as the net proceeds, being the Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated principal loan element, net of issue and finance costs.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis so as together with finance costs are allocated to the income statement to write off the cost, less estimated residual value of each asset, over over the term of the facility at the effective rate of interest.
Accrued its expected useful life.
The residual values and useful economic lives finance costs attributable to borrowings where the maturity at the of property, plant and equipment are reviewed annually.
Freehold land date of issue is less than 12 months are included in other payables is not depreciated.
The useful lives by major class of assets applied within current liabilities.
For all other borrowings, accrued finance from the date of purchase are: charges and issue costs are included in the carrying value of those borrowings.
Freehold and long leasehold property 50 years Trade payables Short leasehold property over lease term Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Computer and other equipment 4-10 years Equity instruments Impairment of assets Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Goodwill is reviewed for Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting impairment annually.
from 1 June 2005 The business activities of the Group expose it to financial risks that An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the arise from changes in both foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The The Group uses forward currency contracts and interest rate caps to recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs hedge these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial to sell and its value in use.
Page 64 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are These derivative instruments were considered to be hedges because recognised directly in equity where they are designated as effective they were used to reduce the risk profile of an existing underlying hedges of future cash flows.
The ineffective portion of the hedge, exposure in accordance with the Groups risk management policies.
where it occurs, is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When derivatives were used for hedging purposes, the Group If the item being hedged is a non-financial asset or liability then deferred the derivatives impact on the income statement profit the associated gains or losses on the associated derivative that until the impact of the underlying transaction was also recognised.
had previously been recognised in equity are included in the Premiums or discounts arising on the purchase of derivative measurement of the asset or liability at the time it is recognised.
instruments were amortised over the shorter of the life of the Conversely if the item being hedged is a financial asset or liability, instrument and the underlying transaction.
any amounts arising from changes in fair value that are deferred in equity are subsequently recognised in the income statement in the Where forward currency contracts were used to hedge balance same accounting period in which the hedged item affects net income.
sheet items, the balance sheet items were translated at the rate of exchange that was contained within the hedge.
Where the instrument Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, where was used to hedge against future transactions that were not yet they are not designated as effective hedges of future cash flows, are shown on the balance sheet, any gains and losses were deferred recognised in the income statement.
Any changes in the fair value of until the transaction occurred.
the underlying transaction are also recognised in the income statement.
Where a derivative ceased to be a hedge, either as a result of the underlying exposure which it was hedging having been extinguished Hedge accounting of a transaction is discontinued when the hedging or because the future transaction was no longer considered likely to instrument is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when the hedging occur, the derivative was either cancelled, sold or matched against a instrument no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cost of termination was recognised in the profit and loss account in the period of termination.
Where the derivative Under these circumstances any cumulative gain or loss on the was matched by a new derivative, any resultant gain or loss was hedging instrument, which has already been recognised in equity, is immediately recognised in the profit and loss account.
retained in equity until the transaction occurs.
However if a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, any net cumulative gain Provisions or loss that has already been recognised in equity is immediately Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal transferred to the income statement.
or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: A derivative that is embedded in another financial instrument, or and if this amount is capable of being reliably estimated.
If such an in a host contract, is treated as a separate derivative if its risks and obligation is not capable of being reliably estimated it is classified as characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Under these circumstances the host contract is not carried at fair value but any unrealised gains or losses on the derivative are Exceptional items reported in the income statement.
Where certain expense or revenue items recorded in a period are material by their size or incidence, these are disclosed as Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting exceptional within a separate line on the income statement.
from 1 June 2004 to 31 May 2005 During this period derivative instruments were used by the Group solely to reduce or eliminate exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Derivative instruments that were used included forward currency contracts, currency swaps and interest rate caps.
