Independent auditors report to the members of Misys plc on the parent company accounts We have audited the parent company financial statements of Misys Basis of audit opinion plc for the year ended 31 May 2006 which comprise the balance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards sheet, and the related notes.
These parent company financial on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates We have reported separately on the Group financial statements and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the of Misys plc for the year ended 31 May 2006. parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors applied and adequately disclosed.
As described on page 57 the Directors responsibilities for preparing the Directors remuneration report and the parent company financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom information and explanations which we considered necessary in Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Practice are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the report to be audited.
Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this Opinion opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to In our opinion: any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 May 2006: financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the the parent company financial statements and the part of the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you whether in the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent parent company financial statements.
with the parent company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Financial review that is cross referred from the business review section  LLP of the Directors report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not London received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, 27 July 2006 or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the items listed in the contents section of the Annual Report, apart from the 2006 audited financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
