About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary Report from the auditors We have audited the group financial statements of Mitchells & Butlers plc Basis of audit opinion for the year ended 30 September 2006 which comprise the Group We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards income statement, the Group statement of recognised income and on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
expense, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant and the related notes 1 to 34.
These group financial statements have to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the group We have reported separately on the parent company financial financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are statements of Mitchells & Butlers plc for the year ended 30 September appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and 2006 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that adequately disclosed.
is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the in the group financial statements.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in the group financial statements in accordance with applicable United accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2006 as adopted by the European Union as set out in the Statement of and of its profit for the year then ended: Directors responsibilities.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared in Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and IAS Regulation: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial the group financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view, the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether the information Ernst & Young LLP given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
Registered auditor London We also report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the 28 November 2006 information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Operating and financial review, the Directors report, the Corporate governance statement, the Audit Committee report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and the Five year review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
40 Report Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 |
