About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Report from the auditors | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary Report from the auditors We have audited the parent company financial statements of Mitchells statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be & Butlers plc for the year ended 30 September 2006 which comprise audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates a Balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 13.
These parent company and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Mitchells & Butlers plc for the year ended 30 September 2006. information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, report to be audited.
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors In our opinion: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, the Directors remuneration report and the parent company financial the parent company financial statements give a true and fair statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as Practice as set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
at 30 September 2006: Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements the parent company financial statements and the part of the and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company the parent company financial statements.
financial statements give a true and fair view, the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance Ernst & Young LLP with the Companies Act 1985 and whether the information given Registered auditor in the parent company Directors report is consistent with the London financial statements.
28 November 2006 We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Operating and financial review, the Directors report, the Corporate governance statement, the Audit Committee report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and the Five year review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial 90 Report Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 |
