About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company balance sheet | Shareholder information | Glossary Shareholder information Electronic communication Special Dividend and share consolidation Shareholders can register to receive an e-mail notification of the The Company paid, on 25 October 2006, a Special Dividend of 1 availability of the Companys latest shareholder communications per share to shareholders on the Register at the close of business at the following website, www.
The website on 17 October 2006. also enables shareholders to view details of their own shareholding or electronically appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf on any poll As approved by shareholders on 17 October 2006, the Special that may be held at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Dividend was accompanied by a consolidation of the Companys share capital, effective from 18 October 2006, whereby shareholders Amalgamating your share accounts received 34 new ordinary shares for every 41 existing ordinary shares If you received more than one copy of this report, it may be because held on 17 October 2006. the Registrar has more than one record of shareholdings in your name.
To ensure that you do not receive duplicate mailings in future, you can have all your shares amalgamated into one account by Contacts contacting the Registrar at the address below.
Registered office 27 Fleet Street Dividend mandates Birmingham B3 1JP Shareholders who wish dividends to be paid directly into a bank or Telephone 44 0 870 609 3000 building society account, should contact the Registrar for a dividend Fax 44 0 121 233 2246 mandate form.
This method of payment removes the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures that your account Registrar is credited on the due date.
Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway, Worthing Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP West Sussex BN99 6DA Shareholders can choose to reinvest dividends received to purchase Telephone 0870 241 3930 from the UK further shares in the Company through a DRIP.
A DRIP application Telephone 44 121 415 7088 for non-UK callers form is available at the following website, www.
com investors Fax 44 0 1903 702 424 Low cost share dealing service If you have hearing difficulties, a text phone is available A simple, low cost postal facility for buying and selling Mitchells on 0870 600 3950, for callers with compatible equipment.
& Butlers plc ordinary shares is available through the Companys Registrar.
Information may be obtained from the address below Low cost share dealing service and ISAs telephone 0870 242 4244 or at www.
co. uk dealing or visit www.
co. uk Individual savings accounts ISAs Stockbrokers ISAs in Mitchells & Butlers plc ordinary shares are available through JPMorgan Cazenove Limited the Registrar and information may be obtained from the address below.
Merrill Lynch International Share price information Auditor The latest Mitchells & Butlers plc share price is available in the Ernst & Young LLP financial press or on Ceefax and Teletext and also on the Financial Times Cityline Service, telephone 44 0 906 003 1366 calls Investment bankers charged at 60p per minute.
Citigroup ShareGift Solicitors The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share donation Allen & Overy LLP scheme for shareholders with small holdings of shares, whose value makes them uneconomic to sell.
Details can be obtained from the Design and production Registrar or the ShareGift website www.
org or by calling Sheppard Day ShareGift on 44 0 20 7828 1151.
Print Six Continents demerger Royle Corporate Print The entitlements received by former shareholders of Six Continents PLC on the separation in 2003 of the Retail Mitchells & Butlers and Printed on Hotels InterContinental Hotels Group businesses, together with a Cover: 250gsm Hanno Art Gloss summary of the UK Capital Gains Tax treatment of those entitlements, Inners: 120gsm Challenger Offset are set out on the Companys website at www.
com cgt The website also contains information to assist in calculating the Hanno Art Gloss is made from a totally chlorine free pulp and base cost of Six Continents ordinary shares to demerger.
is produced by an environmentally accredited mill: ISO 14001.
Challenger Offset is elementally chlorine free and is produced by an environmentally accredited mill: ISO 14001.
The document has been printed by an environmentally certified printer: ISO 14001.
100 Report Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 | About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary Glossary Acquired Sites Incremental pre-tax returns 239 pub restaurant sites acquired from Whitbread PLC in July 2006.
Growth in annual pre-tax operating profit expressed as a percentage of the associated capital investment.
For sites which do not have Amenity 12 months post-investment trading, incremental return is estimated Design, dcor, furniture and facilities that contribute to the environment based on an annualisation of actual post-investment trading.
IFRS AWT Average weekly take International Financial Reporting Standards The average sales per pub per week, calculated as total sales divided by the average number of pubs trading during the year divided by the National Minimum Wage number of weeks in the financial year.
The minimum amount an employer must pay its workers as defined by law.
Blended net interest rate Net interest divided by average net debt expressed as a percentage.
On-trade Any retail outlet which has a licence to sell alcohol for consumption Brands on the premises e. g. pubs, restaurants, nightclubs, clubs.
Outlets which trade under a common name, or their own individual names under an externally recognised group name, with a consistent Operating profit design, drinks range, menu, service style and promotional programme.
Earnings before interest, tax and exceptional items.
Business franchise Outlet employment ratio An agreement where an entrepreneur gains access to high quality pubs Pub employment costs divided by total sales, expressed as a percentage.
and a sophisticated business support infrastructure whilst the Company retains its scale purchasing and overhead advantages and shares in Post-tax cash return the trading upside through a franchise fee.
The Company receives a EBITDA less tax divided by average net operating assets less revaluation commercial rent for the property and retains the property ownership.
reserve plus accumulated depreciation plus goodwill written off.
Capacity management Productivity The process that seeks to ensure that a pub can service maximum volumes Sales less hourly paid wages divided by the number of hours worked.
at peak trading times whilst maintaining customer satisfaction levels.
Refinancing Cash flow from operations The repayment of an existing loan with the proceeds from a new loan.
The cash generated from the operations of the Company generally defined as revenues less all operating expenses.
Same outlet like-for-like sales growth The increase in sales performance of all managed pubs that were trading CAGR for the two periods being compared, expressed as a percentage.
Compound Annual Growth Rate Securitisation Covers A means of raising finance secured on identifiable and predictable cash The number of main meals sold.
flows derived from a particular set of assets.
Cover turn Share buyback The total number of main meals sold divided by the number of main The purchase in the open market by a listed company of its own shares.
meals that could be sold in one sitting.
Uninvested like-for-like sales growth EBITDA The increase in sales performance of those managed pubs that have not Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and received expansionary investment of more than 30,000 in either year exceptional items.
being compared, expressed as a percentage.
External costs Costs influenced by outside factors, i. e. regulatory and energy costs.
Formats Outlets where to the customers eye the business trades without any overt branding or badging but the customer offer and operating template are List of images managed to defined standards.
Front cover Gross margin The Blackfriar, Nicholsons, City of London Gross profit divided by sales, expressed as a percentage.
Inside front cover Gross profit Sales less cost of goods sold, expressed in monetary terms s. Browns, Maddox Street, Central London Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Mitchells & Butlers plc Mitchells & Butlers plc 27 Fleet Street Annual report and accounts 2006 Birmingham B3 1JP Tel: 44 0 870 609 3000 Fax: 44 0 121 233 2246 www.
com Report Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Report 1 | Mitchells & Butlers plc Mitchells & Butlers plc 27 Fleet Street Annual review and summary Birmingham B3 1JP financial statement 2006 Tel: 44 0 870 609 3000 Fax: 44 0 121 233 2246 www.
com Review Delivering quality, adding value About us Glossary List of images Acquired Sites Gross margin Front cover 239 pub restaurant sites acquired from Gross profit divided by sales, expressed as The Albany, Premium Country Dining, Whitbread PLC in July 2006. a percentage.
Thames Ditton Amenity Gross profit Inside front cover Design, dcor, furniture and facilities that Sales less cost of goods sold, expressed in ONeills, Muswell Hill, London contribute to the environment and atmosphere monetary terms s. of a pub.
Page 1 Mitchells & Butlers is the leading operator of managed pubs and Incremental pre-tax returns Browns, Windsor AWT Average weekly take Growth in annual pre-tax operating profit The Spaniards Inn, Metro Professionals, pub restaurants in the UK.
We have around 2,000 businesses The average sales per pub per week, calculated expressed as a percentage of the associated Hampstead, London as total sales divided by the average number capital investment.
For sites which do not The Clachan, Nicholsons, Central London offering food, drink, entertainment and accommodation in prime of pubs trading during the year divided by the have 12 months post-investment trading, number of weeks in the financial year.
incremental return is estimated based on an Pages 2-3 locations across the country.
annualisation of actual post-investment trading.
The Argyll Arms, Nicholsons, Central London Blended net interest rate The Fieldhouse, Ember Inns, Solihull Net interest divided by average net debt, IFRS The Spaniards Inn, Metro Professionals, expressed as a percentage.
International Financial Reporting Standards Hampstead, London The Barley Mow, Sizzling Pub Co. Banbury Brands National Minimum Wage ONeills, Great Marlborough St, London Highlights Outlets which trade under a common name, or The minimum amount an employer must pay The White Swan, Premium Country Dining, their own individual names under an externally its workers as defined by law.
Edgbaston, Birmingham recognised group name, with a consistent Browns, Windsor design, drinks range, menu, service style and On-trade The Little Owl, Vintage Inns, Solihull promotional programme.
Any retail outlet which has a licence to sell Harvester, The Windsor Lad, Windsor alcohol for consumption on the premises Toby Carvery, Thanet Business franchise e. g. pubs, restaurants, nightclubs, clubs.
All Bar One, Chiswell Street, London 5.5% An agreement where an entrepreneur gains The Newton Arms, Sizzling Pub Co. Blackpool access to high quality pubs and a sophisticated Operating profit Revenue 1,720m business support infrastructure whilst the Earnings before interest, tax and Page 5 Company retains its scale purchasing and exceptional items.
The Crown, Ember Inns, Sutton Coldfield overhead advantages and shares in the trading upside through a franchise fee.
The Company Outlet employment ratio Pages 6-7 receives a commercial rent for the property and Pub employment costs divided by total sales, The Fieldhouse, Ember Inns, Solihull retains the property ownership.
All Bar One, Chiswell Street, London 6.7% Capacity management Post-tax cash return Pages 8-9 The process that seeks to ensure that a pub can EBITDA less tax divided by average net Crackerjack Prawns taken from the EBITDA 430m service maximum volumes at peak trading times operating assets less revaluation reserve Harvester menu whilst maintaining customer satisfaction levels.
plus accumulated depreciation plus goodwill The Black Horse, Bistro, Milton Keynes written off.
The Crown & Anchor, West Bromwich Cash flow from operations The White Swan, Premium Country Dining, The cash generated from the operations of the Productivity Edgbaston, Birmingham Company generally defined as revenues less all Sales less hourly paid wages divided by the 6.9% operating expenses.
Pages 10-11 Sign from Harvester, The David Copperfield, CAGR Refinancing Broadstairs Operating profit 309m Compound Annual Growth Rate The repayment of an existing loan with the The Crown, Ember Inns, Sutton Coldfield proceeds from a new loan.
The Black Horse, Bistro, Milton Keynes Covers Harvester, The Fountain, Milton Keynes The number of main meals sold.
Same outlet like-for-like sales growth Harvester, The Windsor Lad, Windsor The increase in sales performance of all managed The Rocket, Scream, Central London Cover turn pubs that were trading for the two periods being Leffe beer 15.4% The total number of main meals sold divided compared, expressed as a percentage.
The Crown & Anchor, West Bromwich by the number of main meals that could be The Albany, Premium Country Dining, Earnings per share 29.3p sold in one sitting.
Securitisation Thames Ditton A means of raising finance secured on EBITDA identifiable and predictable cash flows derived Pages 12-13 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, from a particular set of assets.
Browns, Windsor amortisation and exceptional items.
The Albany, Premium Country Dining, Share buyback Thames Ditton External costs The purchase in the open market by a listed The Three Magpies Hotel, Sizzling Pub Co. 14.0% Costs influenced by outside factors, i. e. company of its own shares.
Rotherham regulatory and energy costs.
Dividends 12.25p Uninvested like-for-like sales growth Pages 14-15 Formats The increase in sales performance of those The Bulls Head, Bistro, Meriden Outlets where to the customers eye the managed pubs that have not received The Blackfriar, Nicholsons, City of London business trades without any overt branding or expansionary investment of more than Before exceptional items badging but the customer offer and operating 30,000 in either year being compared, Pages 16-18 template are managed to defined standards.
The Spaniards Inn, Metro Professionals, Hampstead, London The Crown & Anchor, West Bromwich The Rocket, Scream, Central London Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:50 Page 1 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Review 06 Growth & diversity Our successful value and volume strategy has delivered a strong trading 08 performance.
We consistently offer our customers great choice, service, amenity and value and we continue to capture the growth in the eating-out market.
08 Eating & drinking out Our wide range of menus offering high quality food, expertly prepared, and the extension of our drinks range with speciality beers, a varied selection of wines, fresh juices and soft drinks, have helped deliver strong organic sales growth.
10 Innovation & evolution The wide social appeal of our pubs is attracting a broader range of customers and we are continually developing and evolving our proven brands and formats to meet their requirements.
Our investment in our pubs is widening our lead over our competitors.
12 Value & volume Strong sales growth has driven gains in our purchasing contracts, allowing us to reinvest to offer our customers even greater value and quality.
The quality and focus of our people, enhanced through training, ensure a high level of service.
14 Scale & location The superior scale and location of our unique, high quality estate, together with the sales growth driven by the success of our high-take brands and formats, have resulted in significant asset appreciation.
12 14 2 Group at a glance | 4 Chairmans statement | 6 Chief executives review | 8 Business review | 16 Social responsibility | 19 Finance directors report | 20 Summary financial statement | 22 Board of directors | 24 Summary directors report | 24 Corporate governance | 25 Summary remuneration report | 28 Shareholder information | 29 Glossary Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Review 1 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:50 Page 2 Group at a glance Group at a glance Pubs and bars 1,320 Restaurants 832 Our sales strategy Four principal levers Amenity offering a high quality, well-maintained environment Value consistently driving quality and value across all products Range improving the range of drinks and food that we sell Service motivating our staff to offer great service and work productively 2 Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:50 Page 3 Retail sales mix Average weekly take 17.5k Food 35% Beer & cider 31% Wines & soft drinks 13% Spirits 11% 8.2k Accommodation & other 6% Machines 4% Pro forma including Acquired Sites.
1996 2006 Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Review 3 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:50 Page 4 Chairmans statement In review... 14% on last year and consistent with our commitment to As well as delivering progressive growth in dividends in line with the medium term earnings prospects for the business.
another strong operational The dedication and focus of our employees has been performance, this outstanding year has been one It is a tribute to the professionalism of our employees that the of considerable corporate activity during the year has served only to increase corporate activity their motivation and focus on the successful execution of our operating strategy and the delivery of sales and earnings and achievement for growth.
I would like to thank all of them for their hard work, Mitchells & Butlers.
tenacity and application throughout the busiest period of corporate activity the business has ever faced.
Despite some Roger Carr uncertain trading conditions in the first quarter and against Chairman the background of the continued shift of beer sales from the on-trade to the off-trade this operational focus has delivered like-for-like sales up 4.1%.
A year of considerable corporate activity In converting these sales gains to profit growth the business Mitchells & Butlers strategy is to build sustainable value has faced an unprecedented level of energy and regulatory by growing our sales and profits, investing our cash flows cost increases, some 24m in total.
However expertise in in the estate and value creative acquisitions and to reward managing productivity, controlling the cost base and delivering shareholders with progressive dividends and the return purchasing benefits has, once again, offset these increases of surplus funds when appropriate.
In 2006, good progress and generated net operating margins ahead of last year and has been made on all these fronts.
earnings per share, 15.4% ahead of last year.
In July, after careful evaluation, we successfully acquired Committed to the generation and delivery of value for 239 of the best pub restaurant sites in the UK for conversion shareholders to our proven brands and operating formats.
In September, Earlier in the year we rejected a pre-conditional proposal we refinanced the business at a reduced interest rate, from a consortium to acquire the entire equity of the increasing our securitised debt by 655m.
Throughout the Company for 550p a share.
This was based on the Boards year, we have sold a number of smaller drinks-led pubs absolute belief that this proposal materially under-valued the at attractive prices, including a package of 102 pubs which Company and its assets.
All of the actions and achievements was completed in October.
this year have been underpinned by the Boards absolute commitment to the creation and delivery of value to Well over 500m returned to shareholders by the end shareholders.
In Mitchells & Butlers brief history, this of October principle has been pivotal to all our decisions.
I can assure I am particularly pleased that, as well as investing 497m in you that it will remain firmly so in the future.
acquiring high quality sites that provide an additional platform for future growth and investing 182m in the development of the existing estate, we have also been able to return some 560m to shareholders by way of a Special Dividend and share buybacks.
In total, since demerger in 2003, we have now returned over 1.1bn to shareholders in addition to ordinary dividends.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.6p taking the total dividend for the year to 12.25p, an increase of Roger Carr, Chairman 4 Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:50 Page 5 We have a very high quality, diverse estate with an asset value of over 5.5bn Directors estimate as at August 2006 based on independent valuation Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Review 5 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:50 Page 6 Summary operating and financial review Chief executives review Growth & diversity Our focus on value, service and amenity has delivered strong results, with like-forlike sales up 4.1%.
Tim Clarke Chief executive Mitchells & Butlers has delivered another strong trading where people may not have the time or the inclination to cook, performance this year, with like-for-like sales growth of 4.1%.
and the increasing number of recreational visits by the growing Our focus on value, service and amenity in addition to tight population of retired people.
At the same time the decline of cost control has enabled us to increase net operating margins manual labour in the manufacturing industry has been the and generate operating profit of 309m, before exceptional major cause of the fall in habitual pub visiting to drink beer.
The trading performance, together with the reduction in shares in issue following share buybacks in FY2005 and Mitchells & Butlers extensive range of successful brands FY2006, have resulted in earnings per share growth of 15.4% and formats, developed through insight into the market at 29.3p, before exceptional items, for the year.
and consumer behaviour, are capturing this growth at all levels.
Our investment in our offers to build and maintain their In a challenging year, our unwavering focus on delivering appeal to the wider customer base is, we believe, leading superior customer value has ensured a strong trading to a widening gap of amenity standards, against much of performance in mixed market conditions where there have our competition.
been more positive growth rates in food, wine, soft drinks and cider, compared with those of beer and spirits.
The weakening Our overall strategy is to drive profitable volume growth, and of the on-trade beer market continues and the widening price thus shareholder value, by offering our customers unmatched gap between the on-trade and the supermarkets was thrown choice, service, amenity, and value.
The key elements of the into sharp relief by this summers World Cup, as the latter strategy are to: used beer promotions to drive sales of other products.
Lead the informal, value for money, casual dining market People continue to enjoy visiting the pub in larger numbers In 1995 we served our guests fewer than 15 million meals a than ever, with 72% of the adult population regularly going year but today, it is nearly 100 million.
We are the largest out to a pub, and increasingly this is to eat.
This compares on-trade caterer in the UK.
with around 60% of the adult population a generation ago.
Generate significant drinks market share gains However, at the same time, the habitual, regular usage by Our volume growth in drinks has significantly outstripped the those who used to visit three times a week or more, has market across virtually all categories.
Widen the inclusive appeal of the pub through high levels Key social changes driving the growth trend in the eatingof amenity and service out market are the increase in the number of women in This year, we have invested 182m in maintaining and employment and the rising number of single households, developing our pubs and an average of six days training per 6 Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:51 Page 7 staff member across a total of 44,000 employees, which is Our strategy of offering high quality further widening our lead over our competitors.
amenity and good value food and drink Deliver a profitable, integrated food and drinks offer is generating sustained sales growth.
We are able to combine food sales with higher margin drinks sales to maximise overall profitability and generate net operating margins of 18% of sales.
Extract volume driven efficiencies Purchasing and productivity gains this year have enabled us to absorb 24m of regulatory and energy costs, while maintaining pub employment costs at 24% of sales.
Extend a skill base of operational excellence throughout the estate Some of the strongest like-for-like sales growth in the industry for the third consecutive year is testament to the talent and operational expertise of our employees at all levels.
Grow profits and in turn generate asset appreciation which can be released for the benefit of shareholders The estate was valued at over 5.5bn in August of this year, including the valuation of our securitised pubs as a portfolio at 4.8bn, a 40% uplift per pub from 2003, which has enabled a further 655m of borrowing and a return of 560m to shareholders over the past 12 months, including the Special Dividend of 1 per share paid after the year end.
The success of this strategy is evident in that with approximately 3% of pubs in the UK, we have 10% of industry sales, and average weekly takes of 17,500, well over three times the industry average.
Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Review 7 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:51 Page 8 Summary operating and financial review Business review Eating & drinkng out 8 Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:51 Page 9 In the past five years, our draught beer offer has risen from 17 to 61 products and our wines from 114 to 232.
The Mitchells & Butlers estate has the world with Latino, Eastern, Italian, Ember Inns Cask Ale festival, offering been repositioned over the last decade and Western selections: in Ember Inns, guests a choice of 36 different ales during towards the growth areas of the market.
we serve an excellent curry selection, the six week run, has enjoyed a fifth Previously, a purely volume retailer providing authentic Asian food from successful year and provided, for the of beer, the Company has undertaken a specialist supplier.
first time, food dishes created specifically a calculated restructuring and to complement the beer on offer, repositioning of our estate to meet We are making constant improvements, maximising integrated sales.
not only in raising the quality of the ingredients used but also in the flawless The expansion of the drinks range Acquisitions and the format conversions execution of these dishes through staff has been underpinned by our focus on of large-scale sites in prime residential training and development of our kitchen the improvement in both the dispense locations, with the scale and capacity to management skills.
presentation through the correct deliver profitable volume growth in food glassware as well as the serve quality.
sales, have been key to accelerating our Aligned with the growth in food sales To date, we have installed integrated leadership position.
Equally important, is our capture of market share in drinks super chill technology that consistently our focus on quality, value and service sales, especially wine.
An extension of the delivers drinks at the appropriate has resulted in strong organic sales range of drinks available from imported temperature in over 700 of our pubs.
growth: on average, the price of a main beers from the Continent, wines from meal in a Mitchells & Butlers pub is the New World and fresh juices and soft This technology, together with the around 6 and our same outlet like-fordrinks has been matched by innovative, increased range of beers, is creating like food sales this year increased targeted marketing campaigns.
The a real point of customer differentiation.
The most recent acquisition of 239 pub restaurant sites from Whitbread PLC completed in July this year enables us to step up yet another gear in our repositioning of the estate.
Thus we anticipate food rising from 35% to around 40% of our sales within two years.
Consumers expectations of food quality have risen rapidly in recent years and our challenge is to offer something distinctive and different.
Our focus is on high quality, fresh food which is freshly prepared by skilled cooks and also on continuous innovation in menu development which allows us to offer guests greater variety.
In All Bar One, we now serve World Tapas sharing plates from around Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Review 9 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:51 Page 10 Summary operating and financial review Business review Innovation & evolution sophisticated environment.
Average take With the continuing growth in the eating-out market in the 30 Premium Country Dining sites is evident, Mitchells & Butlers has moved swiftly now 27,000 per week.
to develop the range of our brands and evolve The evolution of our individual formats our formats to capture this growth at all levels.
themselves is also critical to maintaining the consumer relevance of our offers.
With the continuing growth in the eatingmass market in urban residential areas, Segmenting our estate in the country out market evident, Mitchells & Butlers where there has been a dramatic rise dining market is allowing us to tailor has moved swiftly to develop the range in frequent, casual eating-out.
our offer more precisely to customer of our brands and evolve our formats requirements, providing a more to capture this growth at all levels.
In the more densely populated housing upmarket pub environment and menu estates, our highly successful Pub & range where there has been a similar Our expertise in developing and Carvery format, which offers freshly movement in the demographics of the harnessing consumer insight techniques cooked food at a very attractive 3.99 local population, and taking advantage has enabled us to challenge and stretch value price point, now serves over 2,500 of the opportunity for an increase the conventional definition of the pub, meals per week on average.
For example, expanding our formats to capture not just affluent commuter belts, our Premium on average a customer will spend 8 the established, mid-market, suburban, Country Dining formats are encouraging excluding VAT on food in a Vintage Inn, eating-out experience but new areas consumers to view the pub as an but around 10 in a Bistro pub or 16 of growth, from the affluent urban and increasingly desirable destination, in our Premium Country Dining format.
commuter belt markets, through to the offering high quality food and drink and excellent service The wide social appeal of our pubs in a modern, means that we now attract a broader range of customers, who have a high expectation of range, service, value and amenity.
Our continued investment in all these aspects throughout our estate is critical in further widening our lead over our competitors.
Equally, as our offers bring more customers into our pubs and pub restaurants to eat, our ability to leverage this higher footfall to boost associated, higher margin drinks sales is crucial.
Thus we are driving market share gains in drinks sales through our focus on complementing our innovative menu development with drinks ranges that offer both quality and provenance.
In our Metro Professionals format, aimed at more affluent customers in London and other major UK cities, an extended choice of draught and imported beers complements our menu offering with its fresh, contemporary twist.
10 Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:51 Page 11 Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Review 11 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:51 Page 12 Summary operating and financial review Business review 12 Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:51 Page 13 Value & volume with personality Critical to the success of our value and customer service is maintained at busy employee motivation and we have volume strategy is our ability to exploit trading times but employment costs are established company-wide programmes both the corporate and individual pub reduced in quieter periods.
Last year saw to ensure our people are able to fulfil scale to drive value for our guests, the strongest gains we have yet achieved their potential.
The Company invested which in turn drives profit.
Our skill in in staff productivity, with a 4% increase an average of six training days per developing high-take formats, combined in staff contribution per hour.
We are employee in 2005 06 and we have been with the sheer size of our pub estate, has constantly raising the bar on our capacity shortlisted in the 2006 Personnel Today underpinned our leadership in particular management, volume leadership and awards for the excellence in graduate segments.
For example, our Pub & kitchen skills to deliver greater volume recruitment category.
Carvery and Sizzling Pub Co. brands growth with improved productivity.
are now leading food sales in the Locals At the same time, employees are market, serving around 13 million meals incentivised in a way that aligns their In 1995, we served a year and, in the mid-market suburbs, objectives to those of the Company Harvester and Toby have continued to through schemes such as the employee our guests fewer than meet the burgeoning demand for casual Sharesave scheme, which ensures 15 million meals a year dining.
They are all generating market that Company success is shared directly leading food volumes in the pub with staff.
At the end of September this but today, it is nearly restaurant sector.
year, Mitchells & Butlers first three-year 100 million.
We are the Sharesave offering matured and Significant gains in our purchasing participating employees enjoyed a return largest on-trade caterer contracts this year, driven by our sales of nearly 250% on their savings.
growth, have allowed us not only to absorb the huge increase in regulatory The Company is committed and energy costs this year but also The recruitment, training and retention to a comprehensive employee to offset the growth of relatively lower of talented people remain at the heart communications programme, with margin products such as food and of our progress.
Our strong like-for-like well established channels such as wine.
The continuous reinvestment sales growth is testament to the quality, team meetings, conferences, in-house of these purchasing gains enables us focus and dedication of our employees publications and the intranet, keeping to offer better quality and value to our at all levels.
Many key operational staff informed on matters relating to the customers, thus increasing our volumes.
decisions are taken at the brand level, Company and its performance as well meaning that we have the flexibility and as driving a two-way communication High volumes at the pub level means pace to anticipate and meet changing flow between senior management and we can bring to bear our techniques consumer needs which is essential in employees.
A formal Business Forum, of scheduling, training and capacity building strong leadership skills and at which Executive Directors meet with management to transform staff inspiring brand commitment in staff.
elected employee representatives productivity levels.
Through advanced This, in turn, is critical to high standards to discuss business concerns, takes scheduling and sales forecasting of customer service.
systems, we are able to align closely the trading pattern of the pub with the Opportunity for continuous development A key element of the two-way number of rostered staff, ensuring that through training is fundamental to communication flow is the yearly corporate employee satisfaction survey.
This gauges staff opinion on a wide variety of Company issues and working practices in a confidential manner and provides an ongoing, objective measure for employee satisfaction.
The results for this years survey showed that the score for job satisfaction and motivation had improved for the third consecutive year and 94% of Mitchells & Butlers employees would recommend the Company as a good place to work.
The success of our value and volume strategy has delivered significant growth Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Review 13 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:51 Page 14 Summary operating and financial review Business review Scale & location 14 Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:51 Page 15 The superior scale and location of our unique, high quality estate, together with the sales growth driven by the success of our high-take brands and formats, has resulted in significant asset appreciation.
in sales and operating profit this year This performance is evidence of which has, in turn, resulted in asset the success of our strategy, which is appreciation, given that pubs are underpinned by the superior scale and generally valued by reference to the location of our pub estate, our proven cash flows that they generate.
track record of developing and operating a wide range of high-take formats In August this year, the securitised and the talent and commitment of our pub estate of 1,704 pubs was valued as employees in every part of the Company.
a portfolio at 4.8bn, which represents an uplift of 40% per pub on the previous valuation, carried out in 2003.
In total, our portfolio of pubs, including those acquired in July and around 230 pubs outside the securitisation, was estimated to be worth over 5.5bn in August.
This considerable increase in value has enabled us to borrow a further 655m and return 560m to shareholders over the past 12 months, including the Special Dividend of 1 per share paid after the year end.
In the three years since demerger, Mitchells & Butlers has returned over 1.1bn to shareholders, over and above ordinary dividends.
Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Review 15 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:52 Page 16 Summary operating and financial review Social responsibility Being responsible 16 Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:52 Page 17 Alcohol and social responsibility Mitchells & Butlers has had a comprehensive policy for the responsible sale of alcohol since 2000.
Our Alcohol and Social Responsibility Policy includes clear guidelines on the responsible operation of our pubs, the sale and promotion of alcohol, and our under 18s policy.
The policy is supported by employee training and development programmes.
The introduction of the policy led the industry.
We relaunched the Alcohol and Social Responsibility Policy in May 2006 to include tighter guidelines on pricing and promotions.
of that organisations code governing managers to become active members promotional activity, which in turn of the local Pubwatch Scheme.
Challenge 21 policy influenced the creation of the Social Examples of partnerships with local The Challenge 21 policy is an initiative Responsibility Standards document communities include: launched by Mitchells & Butlers to signed by all of the relevant trade support our staff in identifying underage associations and launched in conjunction Support for Business Improvement customers.
It is not an over 21s only with the Home Office earlier this year.
We support a dozen such entrance policy, but rather a requirement initiatives and are especially active to ask for ID if a customer appears to be Alcohol awareness in that for Broad Street, Birmingham.
under 21, so as to prove that he or she Mitchells & Butlers is an associate is at least 18 years of age.
This policy member of the Drinkaware Trust, an Participation in local city council and is now applied throughout the estate.
independent charitable trust aimed police initiatives such as Best Bar at changing the UKs drinking culture None Awards.
For example: Challenge 21 refresher training for all and tackling alcohol-related harms.
Hulls Best Bar None awards scheme, managers and staff is taking place in Information on units of alcohol is introduced by Humberside police and the autumn of 2006 in order to reduce provided on the drinks menus in a Hull City Councils Citysafe initiative, the incidence of underage purchase.
number of our brands and formats and offers accreditation for well run pubs further information about the Drinkaware with staff well trained in regard to During the last year we have moved to Trust website is also made available.
security, drug awareness, responsible accept as proof of age ID cards within drinking and the control of antisocial the PASS scheme.
Our employees are Licensing Act behaviour.
A Mitchells & Butlers pub, trained to recognise the PASS logo, and The Licensing Act 2003 the Act The Mainbrace, won the overall award to accept only such cards, or a passport came into effect on 24 November 2005. in the Best Pub category, out of or photo driving licence as proof of age.
From that date licensed premises have around 30 entrants.
been able to make use of any variations Conflict management to previous opening hours granted by Smoking Mitchells & Butlers recognises that the relevant local authority.
In 2004 we started a programme failure to identify and resolve potential of reducing the floor space in which sources of conflict in our pubs or on the Mitchells & Butlers applied for an smoking was allowed in all of our pubs.
door can have serious consequences.
average of just over one additional hour By the end of 2005 we had eliminated Conflict management training has per day per pub.
In making applications smoking at the bar across the estate, become a core ingredient of retail we sought to balance the opportunity to thereby reducing the exposure of staff management training, helping to reduce offer our customers more flexible opening to environmental tobacco smoke.
the risk of serious incidents and better times with respect for local communities.
protect both employees and guests.
We applied for no 24 hour licences.
In October 2005 the Government presented the Health Bill the Bill, Conflict management training also helps Predictions of a rise in alcohol-related containing proposals for reducing our staff to manage issues associated disorder as a result of the Act proved smoking in the workplace.
The Bill with drugs abuse.
Where there is any largely unfounded.
The on-trade has introduced the notion of banning evidence of such in our businesses, seen little or no increase in consumption smoking in pubs serving food, but we move rapidly to assess the situation and, in general, customers have taken allowing smoking in other pubs and and take appropriate, tough measures advantage of more flexible opening all membership clubs.
The Company to resolve the matter immediately.
viewed the proposal as illogical and participated actively in a campaign to Responsible promotions policy Partnerships with police and local bring about a total ban in all pubs and Mitchells & Butlers is a member of the communities clubs.
The campaign was successful British Beer & Pub Association and We encourage our licensed house and, as a result, a full ban will come played a central role in the formation Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Review 17 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:52 Page 18 Summary operating and financial review Social responsibility The Company makes donations in kind, such as offering its facilities for use pro bono, or by giving free meals in Company premises.
Some of our leading brands also support a charity of their choice.
For example, Ember Inns and their guests have raised around 6,700 for breast cancer charities during 2006. into effect in Wales in April 2007, Environment Alongside local initiatives, we also and later that summer in England.
We take our environmental responsibilities work with selected charities at a seriously, and have a policy of seeking national level.
The Company continues Meanwhile, ahead of the ban, we have continuous improvement, with particular to support Barnardos and made moved to a no smoking policy in a focus on recycling and energy usage.
By September, Additionally, our employees helped around 185 of our pub restaurants were We have established a programme to raise 22,000 to support three smoke-free in England and Wales.
for collecting and recycling glass and Barnardos regional projects.
Following A full ban on smoking in pubs came a successful trial, the initiative has been Mitchells & Butlers is an active into effect in Scotland in March 2006. rolled out and by September 2006 there participant in Fair Cities Birmingham, With careful planning and preparation, were over 500 pubs participating in the a programme that aims to enhance the the Company managed the change glass recycling programme and over employment opportunities of people from successfully.
The experience gained is 250 recycling cardboard.
Trainees who proving helpful in our detailed planning successfully complete a four week training for the new regime in England and Wales.
We continue to make progress in energy course at the Birmingham College of saving.
A reduction of 2% has been Food are guaranteed an interview for We are confident that a smoke-free achieved, despite a 3% increase in work in one of our local pubs.
Ten people environment will be beneficial to our demand driven by volume growth.
have already been placed in work.
staff and to our customers and will attract even more potential customers.
Our efforts in this area were recognised in As a company with headquarters in December 2005 when we were awarded Birmingham, we have a history of Good food and healthy eating the Energy Efficiency Accreditation by the supporting the cultural and economic We aim to provide a broad choice of Energy Institute and the Carbon Trust.
We are proud to have menu items in our establishments so supported the City of Birmingham that guests seeking healthier options Community Symphony Orchestra for 26 years.
Each of our businesses has an We are in our fifth year as corporate important role to play in its local patron of the Birmingham Repertory We are working closely with the Food community, and we strive to ensure Company, and have just announced Standards Agency the FSA to that our impact is positive.
Every year, a new programme of sponsorship of improve the nutritional content of our our pub managers and staff raise the Birmingham Royal Ballet.
In total, menus, with particular emphasis on significant funds for charitable causes the Companys corporate donations Harvester and childrens menus.
We and, to celebrate their contribution, we were over 200,000 in 2006 committed to specific salt reduction introduced the Heart of the Community 2005 143,170. targets, and are pleased to have met Awards in 2004.
These recognise the them for two successive years.
New efforts of our employees in helping Our role as neighbours FSA targets regarding salt content to forge good relations with their local Our pubs play an important role in in sausages and burgers targeted communities.
The winning pubs receive the life of the local community and the at children have been adopted.
25,000 collectively to donate to good Company is committed to ensuring that causes of their choice.
our businesses fulfil this role successfully, The salt and fat content of items on the remaining on good terms with those menu at Hollywood Bowl have been We promote an Employee Community who live nearby.
We encourage our reduced, and Harvester has recently Award Scheme, enabling employees who managers to be active members of launched its own website which support a charity through fundraising or the community, attending Residents includes nutritional data on all menu voluntary work to apply for a Company Associations meetings where possible, items and this is also available in each donation.
Last year a total of 40,000 was and dealing directly with neighbours to restaurant on request.
donated to charities through this scheme.
resolve any issues quickly and amicably.
18 Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:52 Page 19 Summary operating and financial review Finance directors report months, generating high incremental returns and providing the business with an additional source of profitable growth and value creation.
Realising Value creative disposals In addition to investing in the future of the business, we regularly challenge the ongoing trading value of our assets value against the option of disposal, particularly as alternative use and investment demand for individual pubs have been at substantially higher values than before.
Our financial performance reflects During the year, we raised 88m of cash from disposals, the quality of the including 53m from 21 smaller freehold properties in London licensed properties sold at a multiple of 22 times the EBITDA they generated in we have developed the prior 12 months.
Shortly after the year end, we completed the disposal of 102 smaller, community pubs to Trust Inns Ltd, and our operational a private company, for 101m.
focus on maximising the trading potential Efficient financing structure of each pub.
Based on an independent valuation of the ongoing securitised estate 1,704 pubs, Mitchells & Butlers total property assets were estimated in August to be worth over 5.5bn.
The Karim Naffah substantial appreciation of our asset base over the past three Finance director years demonstrates the value that has been added to our high quality estate through the successful implementation of our Mitchells & Butlers has continued to perform well this operational strategy.
year, with strong revenue growth and improving margins.
Earnings per share grew by 15.4% in the year, underpinning We identified a year ago that, as a result of its strong trading the proposed increase of 14% in the annual dividend.
performance since 2003 and the expected consequent increase in asset values, the business had created the Strong operating performance capacity to take on more debt.
We stated our intention to Our financial performance reflects the quality of the licensed refinance the balance sheet during the year, either to fund a properties we have developed and our operational focus on major acquisition or to return additional cash to shareholders.
maximising the trading potential of each pub, through the It is pleasing that the Company has, in practice, been able application and evolution of industry-leading brands and formats.
Like-for-like sales during the year grew by 4.1% and gross New bonds totalling 1.1bn were issued in September on margins were broadly maintained, despite the relatively highly attractive terms, with an average cash interest rate faster growth of food and wine.
With continued productivity fixed through hedging arrangements, at 5.4% pre-tax.
improvements and efficiency gains, net margins rose from Of this total, 450m was used to refinance existing notes 17.7% to 18% this year, surmounting an unprecedented and the incremental debt of 655m has enabled the Company challenge of 24m from additional regulatory and energy to pay the Special Dividend of 1 per share in October to costs, equivalent to some 1.4% points of margin.
shareholders, in addition to having financed the purchase of the Acquired Sites and repurchased 76m of shares during Investing for high returns the year.
We also made an additional contribution of 20m We invested 182m in the existing estate, including 73m of to the pension schemes in the year and have committed expansionary capital on development projects, with incremental a further 60m to be paid over the next two years.
pre-tax returns over the last two years of over 20%.
Going forward, our focus remains on driving profitable We also purchased, for 497m, 239 pub restaurant sites in sales growth in our base estate and through the important July.
Our extensive due diligence and rigorous site appraisals conversion of the Acquired Sites, generating strong cash flow prior to acquisition underpinned our confidence in the and future asset appreciation for the benefit of shareholders.
significant opportunity to increase the sales and profits of these sites by converting them to Mitchells & Butlers brands and operating formats.
We anticipate further investment of around 85m to complete the conversions over the next 18 Karim Naffah, Finance director Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Review 19 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:52 Page 20 Summary financial statement The 2005 financial year comprised 53 weeks.
All comparisons between a 6m contribution from the Acquired Sites resulted 2006 and 2005 of total sales, like-for-like sales, operating profit and in operating profit before exceptional items of 130m, 15% ahead earnings per share have been made on a 52 week basis to ensure of last year and a 0.6% point improvement in net operating margin.
comparability: all cash flow results include 53 weeks for 2005 and 52 weeks for 2006.
The information contained in the Summary financial Standard Commercial Property Developments Limited, the Groups statement has been prepared in accordance with International Financial in-house property development business, reported no sales or profit Reporting Standards for the first time.
Further information is available in the period compared to 8m and 1m respectively last year.
from the Companys website, www.
com This reects the nature of its business which tends to consist of a small number of large projects under consideration at any one time.
Total revenue for the year was 1,720m up 5.5% on last year.
Strong like-for-like sales growth continued in our pubs in both residential and During the year, the Group realised exceptional profits of 23m, High Street areas, reecting further significant market share gains.
With 20m after tax on the sale of individual pubs.
In addition exceptional the success of our ongoing sales and marketing activities, like-for-like costs of 7m were incurred in defending the potential offer for the food and drink sales were up 7.3% and 3.2% respectively with average Group from a consortium led by R20 and in renancing some of the retail prices up 2%.
Despite the faster growth of lower margin food and Groups securitised bonds.
Also in connection with the renancing, an wine, gross margins were in line with last year and the overall cost of exceptional interest cost of 4m, 3m after tax was recognised reecting goods was held constant reecting the purchasing benefit of our volume the write off of issue costs on the refinanced bonds.
Good profit conversion of incremental sales enabled us to offset gain of 40m was recognised following the settlement of prior years 24m of additional regulatory and energy costs.
In particular, further tax charges with HM Revenue & Customs.
employee productivity benets were achieved allowing us to maintain our pub employment cost ratio at 24% of sales despite the increase in the The net interest charge for the year before exceptional items was National Minimum Wage.
101m, in line with last year and the tax charge was 64m, also before exceptional items.
The effective tax rate was 31%, in line with the rate During the year we acquired 239 pub restaurant sites from Whitbread last year.
PLC the Acquired Sites for 497m providing a pipeline of conversion opportunities to uplift their sales and profits over the next 18 months.
Earnings per share before exceptional items were 29.3p, 15.4% ahead In addition, we invested 182m in the estate in the year, 109m of last year reecting the good trading performance and the benefit of to maintain the high levels of amenity in the pubs and in the ongoing the share buybacks this year and last year.
development and evolution of our operating formats.
The balance of 73m was spent on expansionary projects: 6 new pubs were opened The Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.6p per share.
Together and 65 existing pubs were converted to one of our brands or formats with the interim dividend of 3.65p paid in June, this gives a total dividend to uplift their sales and profits.
In addition, 4 Innkeepers Lodges were for the year of 12.25p, 14.0% higher than last year.
During the year, 18m opened adjacent to new or existing pubs.
Overall we are continuing of the Companys shares were repurchased for a total consideration to achieve an incremental pre-tax return of 20% on the expansionary of 76m.
investment of the last two years.
Net capital investment was 94m after achieving 88m of disposal proceeds.
The Groups operations continued to generate strong cash ow with EBITDA of 430m before exceptional items compared to 403m last Operating profit before exceptional items was 309m, 6.9% ahead year.
Net capital expenditure was 583m reecting the consideration of last year and including the contribution of 6m from the Acquired for the Acquired Sites together with 182m of expansionary and Sites for nine weeks of the year.
Net retail operating margin was 0.3% maintenance investment in the estate net of 88m disposal proceeds.
points ahead of last year.
As a result of the acquisition of the Acquired Sites, operating cash ow after net capital expenditure was an outow of 153m compared to an Revenue in the Pubs & Bars division was 2.0% ahead of last year, inow of 290m last year.
The net cash outow for the year was 442m including the dilution from disposals in the current and previous financial compared to an inow of 10m last year.
Following the renancing and years.
Like-for-like sales, on a same outlet basis, were ahead by 3.5%.
acquisition of the Acquired Sites net debt at the year end was 2,067m Drinks sales showed good growth, against a background of a further compared to 1,625m last year.
decline in the on-trade beer market.
Food sales across the division were strong as we continue to focus on improving the quality and value of our Non-current assets increased by 400m reecting the acquisition of menus, particularly in preparation for the forthcoming smoking ban the Acquired Sites and investment in the estate during the year, net of next summer.
In our community and local pubs, Sizzling Pub Co. Ember the disposal of 61 smaller pubs.
On an IAS 19 basis, the net deficit Inns and Metropolitan Professionals all delivered strong growth in food, in the pension scheme reduced to 99m following the 20m additional as did Nicholsons and our town pubs in town and city centres.
In contributions in the year and improved investment returns offset by contrast, conditions remained challenging for our later night businesses an assumption of higher future ination.
Overall, net assets attributable operating in the Bars & Venues market, particularly as a result of new to equity holders increased by 102m.
competition from longer opening hours following licensing deregulation.
The incremental sales, productivity improvements and cost savings more than offset the additional external cost challenge to generate net operating margins 0.1% point ahead of last year and operating profit before exceptional items of 179m, 2.3% ahead of last year.
Revenue in the Restaurant division was 11.4% ahead of last year at 762m.
This included the contribution of 34m from the Acquired Sites for the nine weeks of ownership.
Like-for-like sales growth for the division continued to be strong at 5.0% driven by the ongoing evolution of our brands and formats, new menu development, extended and improved drinks range and better drinks presentation and quality.
Our pub restaurants now serve on average over 2,000 meals each per week, turning their covers 16 times.
As anticipated, sales were adversely affected during the World Cup in June, however afterwards trading rebounded strongly with like-for-like sales in the last 12 weeks of the year ahead by 6.4%.
The divisions focus on high levels of volume growth and maximising the drop-through to profit of incremental sales, together with 20 Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:52 Page 21 Income statement 2006 2005 Statement of the independent auditors 52 weeks 53 weeks We have examined the Groups Summary financial statement for the m m 52 weeks ended 30 September 2006 which comprise the Summary income statement, Summary consolidated cash flow statement and Revenue 1,720 1,662 Summary balance sheet.
Operating profit Pubs & Bars 179 179 This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Restaurants 130 115 accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
To the fullest Retail 309 294 extent required by the law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to SCPD 1 anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Operating profit before exceptional items 309 295 Operating exceptional items 7 4 profit arising on property-related items 23 1 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual review and Total operating profit 325 292 summary financial statement in accordance with applicable law.
Net finance cost 113 105 Net finance income from pensions 8 3 Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency profit before taxation 220 190 of the Summary financial statement within the Annual review with the Taxation 25 60 full annual accounts, Directors report and Directors remuneration profit for the financial year 195 130 report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 Earnings per of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
ordinary share We also read the other information contained in the Annual review and Basic before exceptional items 29.3p 26.0p summary financial statement and consider the implications for our Basic after exceptional items 39.7p 25.4p report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Dividends per share 12.25p 10.75p inconsistencies with the Summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion Cash ow 2006 2005 We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 m m The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Operating profit before exceptional items 309 295 Depreciation and amortisation 121 116 Opinion EBITDA before exceptional items 430 411 In our opinion the Summary financial statement is consistent with the Working capital movement 9 16 full annual accounts, Directors report and Directors remuneration Other non-cash items 11 7 report of Mitchells & Butlers plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 September Additional pension contributions 20 30 2006 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 Net cash inow from operations before of the Companies Act 1985, and regulations made thereunder.
exceptional items 430 404 Net capital expenditure 583 110 Ernst & Young LLP Operating cash ow after net capital expenditure 153 294 Registered Auditor Exceptional licensing costs paid 4 London 28 November 2006 Cash ow from operations after net capital expenditure 153 290 Net interest paid 107 102 Tax paid 48 43 Dividends paid 56 50 Issue of ordinary share capital 2 Purchase of own shares 76 101 Proceeds on release of own shares held 12 14 Defence costs 4 Renancing costs 10 Net cash ow 442 10 This Summary financial statement was approved by the Board on 28 November 2006 and signed on its behalf by Tim Clarke and Balance sheet 2006 2005 Karim Naffah.
It does not contain sufficient information to provide m m as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of the Non-current assets 3,970 3,570 Group as that contained in the Annual report and financial statements Non-current assets for sale and disposal group 88 9 2006.
That report may be obtained, free of charge, by completing the relevant section of the enclosed proxy card and returning it to Lloyds Total non-current assets 4,058 3,579 TSB Registrars.
Current assets 498 316 Current liabilities 321 325 The auditors have issued an unqualified report on the financial Net current assets liabilities 177 9 statements containing no statement under Section 237 2 or 237 3 Total assets less current liabilities 4,235 3,570 of the Companies Act 1985.
Total non-current liabilities 2,950 2,387 Net assets shareholders funds 1,285 1,183 Information concerning Directors emoluments is shown on page 25.
Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Review 21 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:52 Page 22 Board of directors 12 3 45 6 78 9 10 Members of the executive committee 11 12 13 14 15 16 22 Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:52 Page 23 Board of directors 7 Drummond Hall 57 Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director in July 2004, he is Chief 1 Roger Carr 59 Non-Executive Chairman # Executive of Dairy Crest Group plc.
Prior to that, he had held Became Chairman of the Company on its separation from marketing positions in Procter & Gamble, Mars and Pepsi Cola, Six Continents PLC in 2003.
He is Chairman of Centrica plc and before moving to HP Bulmer plc where he became Managing Director Deputy Chairman of Cadbury Schweppes plc and a senior adviser of the Cider and Beer Division and a member of the Group Executive.
to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. Ltd.
He has previously held a number of senior appointments including Chief Executive of Williams plc, 8 Sir Tim Lankester 64 Non-Executive Director Chairman of Chubb plc and Chairman of Thames Water plc.
Appointed a Non-Executive Director in May 2003, he is President of He was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
From 1973 to 1995 he was a member on 1 October 2006. of the Civil Service rising to be Deputy Secretary of H. M. Treasury, Permanent Secretary, Overseas Development Administration, Foreign 2 Tim Clarke 49 Chief Executive and Commonwealth Office and Permanent Secretary, Department Became Chief Executive of the Company on its separation from for Education.
He served as Private Secretary at 10 Downing Street Six Continents PLC in 2003, having previously been Chief Executive and represented the UK on the Boards of the World Bank and of Six Continents PLC.
Between 1995 and 2000 he was Chief Executive the IMF.
He has held non-executive directorships of CU CGU of Bass Retail, which now constitutes the business of Mitchells & and Smith & Nephew and currently is a non-executive director Butlers plc.
He chairs the Executive Committee.
He is a director of the of ACTIS Capital.
British Beer & Pub Association, having been Chairman for 2002.
He is a non-executive director of Associated British Foods plc and was 9 Sara Weller 45 Non-Executive Director appointed as a non-executive director of the Birmingham Royal Ballet Appointed a Non-Executive Director in April 2003, she chairs the during the year.
Remuneration Committee and is the Senior Independent Director.
She is Managing Director of Argos Ltd having previously been Deputy 3 Karim Naffah 43 Finance Director Managing Director of J Sainsbury plc.
Earlier appointments were with Became Finance Director of the Company on its separation from Abbey National and Mars Confectionery.
In 1991, he joined Bass, becoming its Director of Strategic Planning in 1992.
In 2000, he became Strategy Director for that group and a member of the Strategic Business Committee and the executive committees of the Hotels and Retail A Non-Executive Director divisions.
He also held responsibility for the property development # A member of the Remuneration Committee and IT functions.
A member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees A member of the Nomination Committee 4 Mike Bramley 55 Managing Director, Pubs & Bars A member of the Executive Committee Became a Director of the Company on its demerger from Six Continents PLC in 2003.
He has been Managing Director, Pubs & Bars since September 2002.
In over 20 years with Bass Six Continents, he worked in a variety of roles in the pubs Members of the executive committee and brewing businesses.
In 1995, he became Commercial Director of Bass Taverns and in 1998, was appointed HR and Commercial 10 Bronagh Kennedy HR Director and General Counsel Director of Bass Leisure Retail.
He is a director of the British Beer & Pub Association.
11 John Butterfield Strategy Director 5 Tony Hughes 58 Managing Director, Restaurants 12 Adam Fowle Business Development Director Became a Director of the Company on its demerger from Six Continents PLC in 2003.
He has been Managing Director, 13 Adam Martin Marketing Director Restaurants since 2000.
In 1995, he joined Bass following senior management roles at B&Q, J.
In 2001 14 Richard Pratt Commercial Director he received the Hotel and Caterer Catey for the Pub Industry Award and in both 2002 and 2006, he was voted Retailers Retailer Individual 15 Jeremy Townsend Deputy Finance Director of the Year by the pub and restaurant industry.
16 Alison Wheaton Property and IT Director 6 George Fairweather 49 Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director in April 2003, he chairs the Audit Committee.
He is Group Finance Director of Alliance Boots plc having previously held the same role with Alliance UniChem Plc up until its merger with Boots Group.
Earlier appointments were with Elementis and Dawson International, both as Group Finance Director, and before that with Dixons Group and Procter & Gamble.
Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Review 23 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:52 Page 24 Summary directors report Principal activities Share capital Mitchells & Butlers is the leading operator of managed pubs and pub During the year the Company completed a share buyback programme.
restaurants with an estate of 2,152 sites at 30 September 2006, Approximately 18m of the Companys shares were purchased for 76m, principally located in the UK.
A review of the Groups performance of which 13.5m were cancelled and the remainder used by employee is contained in the full Directors report which cross-refers to the share trusts.
At the end of the year, the employee share trusts held Chairmans statement and Operating and financial review, incorporating 2.2m shares.
After the year end, on 18 October 2006, the share capital the Chief executives review, the Business review, the Finance directors of the Company was consolidated in the ratio of 34 new ordinary shares 13 1 report and Financial review contained in the Annual report and financial of 8 24p for every 41 existing ordinary shares of 7 12p.
statements 2006, a copy of which is available on request and can be viewed on the Companys website at www.
com investors Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC deregistration On 24 August 2006, the Company suspended its registration with the Dividends SEC under the US Securities and Exchange Act 1934.
As a result, the The Board recommends a final dividend for the year ended 30 September Company will no longer file with the SEC an annual report on Form 20-F 2006 of 8.6p per share to be paid on 5 February 2007 to shareholders or periodic reports on Form 6-K. on the register at the close of business on 8 December 2006.
This makes a total dividend for the year of 12.25p per share 2005 10.75p per share.
Donations The Company supports community initiatives and charitable causes.
In addition to this, a Special Dividend of 100p per share was paid Full details are given on pages 20 to 21 of the Annual Report.
The on 25 October 2006 as an interim dividend for the year ending Company made no payments for political purposes and intends to 29 September 2007. maintain its policy of not making such payments.
It will, however, as a precautionary measure to avoid inadvertent breach of the law, seek Directors shareholder authority at its 2007 AGM to make limited donations or incur Details of the current members of the Board are shown on pages 22 limited political expenditure, although it has no intention of using the and 23.
Karim Naffah, Sir Tim Lankester and Sara Weller will retire by authority.
rotation and offer themselves for reappointment at the Annual General Meeting on 1 February 2007.
The four Executive Directors, Messrs Annual General Meeting Bramley, Clarke, Hughes and Naffah, have service contracts with the Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11am on Thursday, Company.
The Non-Executive Directors serve under letters of appointment.
1 February 2007, is contained in a circular, sent to shareholders with this Review.
Employees The Group employed an average of 38,677 people in 2006 2005 37,411.
Details of the Groups employment policies are included on page 10 of the Annual Report.
Corporate governance The Board is committed to compliance with the principles of corporate The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good information governance as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance flows to the Board and its committees and between senior management the Code and considers that the Company has complied throughout and Non-Executive Directors, and for assisting the Directors with their the year ended 30 September 2006 with all the provisions of the Code.
Internal control Going concern The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control The Companys financial statements for the year to 30 September 2006 and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate discharge that responsibility, the Board confirms that it has established enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group the procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
procedures have been in place since the Company was listed and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
During the year, the Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its cost, and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
The Group additionally maintains Directors and officers insurance cover.
Board and committee structure To support the principles of good corporate governance, the Board, the members of which are shown on pages 22 and 23, is responsible to the shareholders for the good standing of the Company.
There were nine regular Board meetings during the year and further meetings as needed.
The Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Executive Committees of the Board met on several occasions throughout the year.
Their terms of reference are available on www.
com investors 24 Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:52 Page 25 Summary remuneration report This summary is an extract of information from the full Remuneration report Annual performance bonus and Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan STDIP contained in the Annual report and financial statements 2006, a copy of Challenging performance goals are set which must be achieved before a which is available on request and can be viewed on the Companys website bonus becomes payable.
For Executive Directors, these targets are linked at www.
The Remuneration report will be put to the to the Groups performance in achieving strategic business objectives and vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Throughout this report, delivering corporate financial targets and to each Directors achievement references to the year are to the 52 week period ended 30 September of personal business objectives.
The maximum bonus opportunity is 2006.
Comparatives are for the 53 week period ended 1 October 2005. currently equivalent to 100% of salary.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors Annual bonuses may be paid in cash but, at the discretion of the The following policy has applied throughout the year.
Committee, the Executive Directors may receive all or part of the bonus in the Companys shares under the Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee determines on behalf Bonuses awarded in shares for performance in 2005 06 will be deferred of the Board, with the benefit of advice from external consultants and for three years and, if the Executive Director is in the Companys the Human Resources function, the remuneration packages of the employment at the end of that period, matching shares may be awarded Executive Directors, the other members of the Executive Committee and of up to one times the deferred shares, subject to the satisfaction of a certain other senior executives.
The Committee is also responsible for performance condition based on growth in EPS.
For awards made in reviewing the fees of the Chairman.
The Committee aims to ensure that 2006 onwards, Dividend Accrued Shares, equal to the gross ordinary the packages are designed to attract, retain and motivate Directors and dividends applicable over the performance period will be awarded based executives of the highest calibre.
It has regard to levels of remuneration on the number of shares vesting.
in the Group and in the specific industries and businesses with which Group companies compete and is also sensitive to levels in the wider Performance restricted share plan PRSP community.
The Company operates performance-related policies This plan aims to encourage continuing improvement in the Groups designed to provide the appropriate balance between fixed remuneration performance over the longer term.
Using target or projected value calculations, performance-related incentives for Executive Directors will equate to Generally a three-year performance cycle will commence each year and approximately 60% of total remuneration.
at the end of the cycle two aspects of the Companys performance will be measured: Share and cash based incentives are designed so as to align the total shareholder return TSR against a comparator group of interests of executives with those of shareholders.
Executive Directors competitor companies: and are currently required to build and maintain significant shareholdings, the Companys cash return on cash capital employed CROCCE equivalent in value to twice their basic salary, but three times salary against its weighted average cost of capital WACC.
It is proposed to reduce this to one times salary for any future appointments, subject to this continuing to be market Awards will be graded according to the level of performance on each of practice at the time.
For awards made in 2006 onwards, Dividend Accrued Shares, equal to the gross ordinary dividend applicable over the performance Directors contracts period will be awarded based on the number of shares vesting.
In accordance with the Companys normal policy, the Executive Directors have rolling contracts which are subject to 12 months notice.
Pension arrangements Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts, but operate Executive Directors participate with other members in the relevant Group under letters of appointment.
The main components of remuneration are: Executive share options Grants of options under the Executive Share Option Plan were made Basic salary annually until June 2005.
No further grants are intended to be made Basic salary will normally be set at median market level when compared under this plan.
The maximum value of shares over which options were with an appropriate comparator group.
From 2007 onwards, by exception, granted in any year was twice salary for Executive Directors.
Options are basic salary may extend into the upper quartile to attract new employees exercisable three to ten years from grant subject to the achievement of and reward key individuals for consistent outstanding performance.
a performance condition set by the Committee.
Directors emoluments 2006 Total emoluments excluding pensions Basic Annual salaries performance 2006 2005 and fees bonus Benets 52 weeks 53 weeks 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Tim Clarke 526 402 23 951 842 Mike Bramley 357 266 20 643 549 Tony Hughes 357 266 22 645 575 Karim Naffah 376 288 13 677 595 Non-Executive Directors Roger Carr 209 209 203 George Fairweather 51 51 50 Drummond Hall 44 44 43 Sir Tim Lankester 44 44 43 Sara Weller 51 51 50 Total 2006 2,015 1,222 78 3,315 Total 2005 2,005 865 80 2,950 Drummond Halls fees are paid to Dairy Crest Group plc, his employer.
The figures above represent emoluments earned during the periods shown.
There were no payments for loss of office.
Benefits incorporate the value of all tax assessable benefits arising from employment with the Company, which relate in the main to the provision of a company car and healthcare cover.
Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Review 25 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:52 Page 26 Summary remuneration report continued Share plans Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan The values earned in the year in respect of shares receivable through the matching facility under the STDIP are as shown in the table below.
These matching shares relate to bonuses earned for 2004 05 which were rolled over under the terms of the plan and are valued at 391.25p per share, the share price on 5 December 2005, the award date.
Matching shares awarded from 2005 onwards are subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition and awards of matching shares will be released after three years.
Ordinary Value Director shares 000 Tim Clarke 37,948 148 Mike Bramley 46,666 183 Tony Hughes 51,084 200 Karim Naffah 27,002 106 Performance Restricted Share Plan A cycle of the PRSP ended on 30 September 2006.
The performance measures related to the Companys TSR performance against a group of comparator companies and to the excess of CROCCE over WACC.
The maximum potential awards to Executive Directors are shown in the table below: Maximum Maximum potential potential Maximum award as at Lapsed Exercised Granted award as at potential 02.10.05 in year in year in year 30.09.06 award as at Earliest shares shares shares shares shares 30.09.06 vesting Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 date Tim Clarke 556 119 86 236 587 3,460 30.11.06 Mike Bramley 366 77 56 160 393 2,318 30.11.06 Tony Hughes 366 77 56 160 393 2,318 30.11.06 Karim Naffah 392 83 60 169 418 2,463 30.11.06 Executive share options Under the terms of the demerger from Six Continents PLC, Directors and other employees were permitted to roll over their options granted under the Six Continents Executive Share Option Schemes into options over Mitchells & Butlers shares.
Grants of options subsequently were made under the Mitchells & Butlers Executive Share Option Plan until June 2005, although no further grants are intended to be made under this plan.
The Directors executive share options at 30 September 2006 are summarised in the table below: Shares Shares Weighted under Exercised under average option in year option at option Director 02.10.05 shares 30.09.06 price Tim Clarke 1,915,997 234,657 1,681,340 263.19p Mike Bramley 1,123,081 37,300 1,085,781 263.06p Tony Hughes 1,191,404 21,931 1,169,473 266.47p Karim Naffah 1,230,923 203,480 1,027,443 261.04p All-employee share schemes Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Companys all-employee share schemes on the same basis as other employees.
No grant of options under the Sharesave plan was made to any Director during the year.
Under the Share Incentive Plan, Executive Directors became entitled to the following shares during the year: Shares Conditional awarded share in 2003, now award in Director unconditional July 2006 Tim Clarke 910 577 Mike Bramley 692 558 Tony Hughes 756 558 Karim Naffah 834 577 26 Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:52 Page 27 Directors interests under all-employee share schemes at 30 September 2006 are shown in the table below: Share Incentive Plan Sharesave Conditional Director shares held Options Option price Tim Clarke 2,589 9,423 169p Mike Bramley 2,474 Tony Hughes 2,474 5,473 169p Karim Naffah 2,589 4,509 209p Directors shareholdings 30.09.06 02.10.05 Tim Clarke 587,291 427,978 Mike Bramley 125,682 47,926 Tony Hughes 133,773 62,793 Karim Naffah 271,119 144,380 Roger Carr 21,067 11,067 George Fairweather 2,000 Drummond Hall 3,500 2,500 Sir Tim Lankester 1,227 Sara Weller 5,252 2,200 Following the year end, as a result of the share consolidation on 18 October 2006, the Directors share interests were consolidated in the ratio 34:41.
Total shareholder return TSR From its listing on 15 April 2003 until 21 December 2003, the Company was a constituent of the FTSE 100 index: since then it has been included in the FTSE 250 index.
The graph below therefore measures the Companys TSR performance against both indices.
Mitchells & Butlers TSR versus FTSE 100 and 250 15.04.03 30.09.06 325 Mitchells & Butlers TSR 275 FTSE 250 TSR 225 175 FTSE 100 TSR 125 Source: Datastream 75 Apr 03 Sept 03 Apr 04 Sept 04 Apr 05 Sept 05 Apr 06 Sept 06 Pensions The Company provides an Executive Pension Plan and an unfunded Executive Top-Up Scheme in which the Executive Directors participate.
Their accrued pensions under these schemes, which would be paid annually on retirement at 60, based on service to 30 September 2006, are shown in the table below.
Mike Bramley has opted out of the Executive Pension Plan for future accrual with effect from 5 April 2006.
Accrued Years of pension pa pensionable at 30.09.06 Director Age service 000 Tim Clarke 49 16 276 Mike Bramley 55 26 232 Tony Hughes 58 11 122 Karim Naffah 43 15 157 Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Review 27 | 15120 M&B Review v12 TP:MAB Review 8 12 06 09:52 Page 28 Shareholder information Electronic communication Six Continents demerger Shareholders can register to receive an e-mail The entitlements received by former notification of the availability of the Companys shareholders of Six Continents PLC latest shareholder communications at the on the separation in 2003 of the Retail following website, www.
com investors Mitchells & Butlers and Hotels The website also enables shareholders InterContinental Hotels Group businesses, to view details of their own shareholding or together with a summary of the UK Capital electronically appoint a proxy to vote on their Gains Tax treatment of those entitlements, behalf on any poll that may be held at the are set out on the Companys website at forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The website also contains information to assist in calculating Amalgamating your share accounts the base cost of Six Continents ordinary If you received more than one copy of this shares to demerger.
report, it may be because the Registrar has more than one record of shareholdings in Special Dividend and share consolidation your name.
To ensure that you do not receive The Company paid, on 25 October 2006, duplicate mailings in future, you can have all a Special Dividend of 1 per share to your shares amalgamated into one account by shareholders on the Register at the close contacting the Registrar at the address below.
of business on 17 October 2006. Dividend mandates As approved by shareholders on 17 October Shareholders who wish dividends to be paid 2006, the Special Dividend was accompanied directly into a bank building society account by a consolidation of the Companys share should contact the Registrar for a dividend capital, effective from 18 October 2006, mandate form.
This method of payment whereby shareholders received 34 new removes the risk of delay or loss of dividend ordinary shares for every 41 existing ordinary cheques in the post and ensures that your shares held on 17 October 2006. account is credited on the due date.
Contacts Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Registered office Shareholders can choose to reinvest dividends 27 Fleet Street received to purchase further shares in the Birmingham B3 1JP Company through a DRIP.
A DRIP application Telephone 44 0 870 609 3000 form is available at the following website, Fax 44 0 121 233 2246 www.
com investors Registrar Low cost share dealing service Lloyds TSB Registrars A simple, low cost postal facility for buying and The Causeway, Worthing selling Mitchells & Butlers plc ordinary shares West Sussex BN99 6DA is available through the Companys Registrar: Telephone 0870 241 3930 information may be obtained from the address from the UK below or at www.
co. uk dealing Telephone 44 121 415 7088 for non-UK callers Individual savings accounts ISAs Fax 44 0 1903 702 424 ISAs in Mitchells & Butlers plc ordinary shares are available through the Registrar If you have hearing difficulties, a text phone and information may be obtained from the is available on 0870 600 3950, for callers address below.
Share price information Low cost share dealing service and ISAs The latest Mitchells & Butlers plc share price is telephone 0870 242 4244 or visit available in the financial press or on Ceefax and www.
co. uk Teletext and also on the Financial Times Cityline Service, telephone 44 0 906 003 1366 Stockbrokers calls charged at 60p per minute.
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Design and production Merrill Lynch International Sheppard Day ShareGift The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates this Auditor Print charity share donation scheme for shareholders Ernst & Young LLP Royle Corporate Print with small holdings of shares, whose value makes them uneconomic to sell.
Details can Investment bankers Printed on be obtained from the Registrar or the ShareGift Citigroup Cover: 200gsm Hanno Art Gloss website www.
org or by calling Inners: 150gsm Hanno Art Gloss ShareGift on 44 0 20 7828 1151.
Solicitors Allen & Overy LLP Hanno Art Gloss is made from a totally chlorine free pulp and is produced by an environmentally accredited mill: ISO 14001.
28 Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 | About us Glossary List of images Acquired Sites Gross margin Front cover 239 pub restaurant sites acquired from Gross profit divided by sales, expressed as The Albany, Premium Country Dining, Whitbread PLC in July 2006. a percentage.
The Spaniards Inn, Metro Professionals, Hampstead, London The Crown & Anchor, West Bromwich The Rocket, Scream, Central London Review Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Mitchells & Butlers plc Mitchells & Butlers plc 27 Fleet Street Annual review and summary Birmingham B3 1JP financial statement 2006 Tel: 44 0 870 609 3000 Fax: 44 0 121 233 2246 www.
com Review Delivering quality, adding value
