MAC RF62790 H 13 4 07 15:31 Page 142 Glossary and Definitions EIA Business, Financial and Accounting Environmental Impact Assessment.
ADASA EMS Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A.
ADR EPS American Depositary Receipt.
AIFR ESSAN All Injury Frequency Rate.
Empresa fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. former Chilean AMSA Government company that administrated water distribution Antofagasta Minerals S. A. in Antofagasta Region.
ATI EU Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. Antofagasta port.
Australian Dollars FCA Australian currency.
Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. Barrick Gold FCAB Barrick Gold Corporation joint venture partner.
Board FTSE The Directors of Antofagasta plc who collectively have Financial Times Stock Exchange.
responsibility for the conduct of the Groups business.
GAAP Cash Costs Generally Accepted Accounting Practice or Generally Accepted Cash costs are a measure of the cost of operational production Accounting Principles.
expressed in terms of cents per pound of payable copper GDP produced.
Cash costs are stated net of by-product credits and Gross Domestic Product.
include tolling charges for concentrates for Los Pelambres.
Cash costs exclude depreciation, financial income and expenses, Government hedging gains and losses, exchange gains and The Government of the Republic of Chile.
Group CCU Antofagasta plc and its subsidiary companies.
Compaa fide Cerveceras Unidas S. A. an investment of Quienco S. A.. IAS International Accounting Standards.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
ISO 9.001 An international quality management system standard published Combined Code by the International Organisation for Standardisation.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 and applicable ISO 14.001 to listed companies for reporting years beginning on or after An international environmental management system standard published by the International Organisation for Standardisation.
Companies Act 1985 IVA Principal legislation for United Kingdom company law.
Chilean Value Added Tax Chilean VAT.
London Inter Bank Offer Rate.
CVRD LME Companhia Vale Do Rio Doce joint venture partner.
DIA LTIFR Environmental Impact Declaration.
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
Directors OHSAS 18.001 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series standards The Directors of the Company.
for occupational health and safety management systems.
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation.
Realised Prices Effective sale price achieved comparing revenues grossed up Equatorial Mining Limited for tolling charges for concentrates with sales volumes.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 142 MAC RF62790 H 13 4 07 15:31 Page 143 Severity Rate and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, Number of lost days during the year in relation to the number economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and government of hours worked.
Resources are stated inclusive of reserves, as defined in JORC Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee.
Oxide and Sulphide Different kinds of copper contained ore. Oxide ore processing Tethyan Copper Company Limited generates cathode copper as the finished product.
Sulphide A company incorporated in Australia.
ore processing normally generates concentrate.
Turnbull Guidance Payable Copper The revised guidance on internal control for directors on The proportion of contained copper for which payment is the Combined Code issued by the Turnbull Review Group received after metallurgical deduction.
SX-EW UF Solvent Extraction and Electro Winning.
Process for extracting Unidades fide Fomentos, an inflation-adjusted unit of account metal from an ore and producing pure metal.
First the metal is used in Chile.
leached into solution: the resulting solution is then purified in the solvent extraction process: the solution is then treated in an electro UK chemical process electro winning to recover cathode copper.
Tailings Dam US Construction used to deposit the rock waste which remains United States.
as a result of the flotation process after the concentrate has US Dollars been extracted.
TC RC Treatment and refining charges being terms used to set Mining Industry the smelting and refining cost.
Grade A Copper Cathode Tolling Charges Highest quality copper cathode registered and certificated Charges or margins for converting concentrate into finished in the LME for Michilla and El Tesoro mines.
These include TC RCs, price participation and price By-products sharing for copper concentrate and roasting charges for Products obtained as result of copper processing.
Los Pelambres mine produces molybdenum concentrate and also receives credit for the gold and silver content in the copper Currency Abbreviations concentrate sold.
Cathode Copper US$000 Thousand US Dollars.
Refined copper produced by electrolytic refining of impure US$m Million US Dollars.
The product of a physical concentration process, such as Ch$ Chilean Peso.
flotation or gravity concentration, which involves separating CH$000 Thousand Chilean Pesos.
ore minerals from unwanted wasted rock.
Concentrates require Ch$m Million Chilean Pesos.
subsequent processing such as smelting or leaching to break A$ Australian Dollars.
down or dissolve the ore minerals and obtain the desired A$000 Thousand Australian Dollars.
Contained Copper Grade The proportion of copper present in the ore, expressed as Definitions and Conversion of a percentage.
Weights and Measures Cut-off Grade g t gram per tonne.
The lowest grade of mineralised material considered economic lb pound.
Used in the calculation of ore reserves and resources.
Process used to separate the copper contained in the ore by means of slowly percolating solutions.
A rock from which metal s or mineral s can be extracted.
Ore Resources Material of intrinsic economic interest occurring in such form Chemical Symbols and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual Cu Copper.
Part of Ore Resources for which appropriate assessments have been carried out to demonstrate at a given date extraction could be reasonably justified and which include consideration of Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 143 MAC RF62790 H 13 4 07 15:31 Page 144 Produced by Royle Financial Print Limited, London 2006 2006 2006 Anto AR06 cov 9mm spine aw 12 4 07 10:49 Page 2 2006 2006 2006 ANTOFAGASTA Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Anto AR06 cov 9mm spine aw 12 4 07 10:49 Page 1 ANTOFAGASTA Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 5 Princes Gate, London SW7 1QJ www.
