b Ore resources refer to material of intrinsic economic interest occurring in such form and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
Ore reserves refer to that part of a resource for which appropriate assessments have been carried out to demonstrate at a given date that extraction could be reasonably justified and which include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
Resources are stated inclusive of reserves.
c The reserves and resources disclosed in the table above relate only to the Groups current operations.
The Group also owns or is interested in a number of other properties which have been the subject of exploration programmes.
These include: i the Esperanza deposit for which a feasibility study is expected to be completed during 2007.
The current drill-inferred sulphide resource at Esperanza is 786 million tonnes of ore, with an average copper grade of 0.53%, an average gold grade of 0.20 g tonne and an average molybdenum grade of 0.012%, based on a cut-off grade for copper of 0.30%.
The resource also contains 72 million tonnes of oxide ore with an average copper grade of 0.43% at the same cut-off grade this is included within the Sierra Gorda resource figure provided in point iv below.
ii the Reko Diq deposit, for which an updated resources estimate is expected to be completed by the end of 2007.
The current estimate is 2.4 billion tonnes of ore, with an average copper grade of 0.51% and an average gold grade of 0.27 g tonne.
iii the Antucoya Buey Muerto deposit, for which the current estimate is 460 million tonnes of ore, with an average copper grade of 0.41%.
iv various mining properties in the Sierra Gorda region with a combined estimated resource of 385 million tonnes of ore, with an average copper grade of 0.53% this includes the 72 million tonnes of oxide ore at the Esperanza deposit referred to in point i above.
d The main changes in the ore resources are as follows: i the decrease in the total Los Pelambres resources of 137 million tonnes is due to the extraction of ore during 2006 55 million tonnes and the updating of the geological model to incorporate the results of recent drilling 83 million tonnes.
ii the decrease in the total El Tesoro resources of 14 million tonnes is due to the extraction of ore during 2006 10 million tonnes and the updating of the mine plan.
iii the decrease in the total Michilla resources of 2 million tonnes is due to the extraction of ore during 2006 6 million tonnes offset by changes to the open pit resources model.
e The operations at Michilla comprise an open pit mine, an underground mine and other workings.
A cut-off grade of 0.4% was applied to the open pit mine 2005 0.5%, a cut-off grade of 1.2% to the underground mine 2005 1.5% and a cut-off grade of 1.5% to other workings to arrive at the reserve and resource calculations.
f The totals in the table may include some small apparent differences as the specific individual figures have not been rounded.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 141
