Business review: Corporate responsibility The Morgan Crucible Company plc 35 Americas Cautionary statement Our Advanced Ceramics plant in New Bedford, Massachusetts, USA, has a tradition of strong This Business review has been prepared for community involvement with a rolling and only for the members of the Company programme through the year.
Initiatives as a body and no other persons.
Its sole include support for the United Way and the purpose is to assist shareholders to assess the Day of Caring, facilitating payroll giving, raising Companys strategies and the potential for funds for the American Cancer Society and those strategies to succeed.
The Company, the American Heart Foundation, supporting a its Directors, employees, agents or advisers local softball tournament and conducting a do not accept or assume responsibility for yearly Blood Drive when the local hospital any other purpose or to any other person to brings a mobile blood donation unit to the site whom this document is shown or into whose and employees donate blood throughout hands it may come and any such responsibility the day.
or liability is expressly disclaimed.
Our Thermal Ceramics plant in Augusta, This Business review contains forward-looking Georgia, USA is also a sponsor of the United statements that are subject to risk factors Way and of the Juvenile Diabetes Research associated with, amongst other things, the Foundation.
economic and business circumstances in the countries, sectors and markets in which the An employee based in Augusta with expertise Group operates.
These and other factors in emergency response planning helps with could adversely affect the outcome and the Community Emergency Response Team financial effects of the plans and events which trains people to be better prepared to described.
Forward-looking statements by their respond to emergency situations in their nature involve a number of risks, uncertainties neighbourhoods.
and assumptions because they relate to Europe events and or depend on circumstances In the UK employees from Carbon and that may or may not occur in the future and Technical Ceramics participated in the 2006 could cause actual results and outcomes to London Marathon, raising money for Cancer differ materially from those expressed in or Research UK and the Multiple Sclerosis implied by the forward-looking statements.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but The sports and social committee at the they may be affected by a wide range Ruabon site in North East Wales involved local of such variables.
children in a competition to design a Christmas card.
The winning design was printed and sold No assurances can be given that the forwardto raise money for schools and local charities.
looking statements in this Business review will be realised.
The forward-looking statements Suppliers and customers reflect the knowledge and information Our customer service strategy is to respond available at the date of preparation and will quickly to changing customer demand, to not be updated during the year but will be identify emerging needs and continuously to considered in the Business review for next year.
improve product availability, quality and value.
This Business review has not been audited or Accordingly we seek to stay close to customers, otherwise independently verified.
Our continuous improvement programmes support our aim that our products should meet or exceed customer requirements.
Over 90% of the Groups manufacturing capacity is accredited to ISO 9001.
We aim to work with our suppliers and partners in mutually beneficial ways, and, so far as is praticable, expect that our customers and suppliers, business partners and contractors throughout the supply chain, act in accordance with our policies and values.
