Principal accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2006 70252 4 Accounts 1 3 07 12:40 Page 74 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2006 Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the historic cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of pension assets and liabilities and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
Fixed asset investments Except as stated below, investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Fixed assets and depreciation No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
On other assets depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation of fixed assets over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold property 2% per annum Plant, machinery, motor vehicles and equipment between 10% and 33% per annum Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and laws.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Pensions The expense of defined benefit liabilities is determined using the projected unit method and charged to the profit and loss account based on actuarial assumptions at the beginning of the financial year.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of total recognised gains and losses in the period in which they occur.
Net pension obligations are included in the balance sheet at the present value of the scheme liabilities, less the fair value of the scheme assets.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Share based payments The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share Based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Company issues equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled, share based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a modified Black-Scholes model.
None of these awards when granted was subject to a share price related performance condition.
A liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date for cash-settled, share based payments.
Dividends The Company has adopted FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date and accordingly only recognises a liability once there is an obligation to pay.
As a result the dividend will only be recognised once the shareholders approve it.
