TRAINS UK NORTH AMERICA ALSA SPAIN C2C DURHAM SCHOOL SERVICES ALSA CENTRAL TRAINS STOCK TRANSPORTATION Alsa is Spains leading coach and bus operator with long distance coaching GATWICK EXPRESS STEWART INT AIRPORT services as well as regional urban bus MIDLAND MAINLINE The North American division is the operations.
In addition Alsa operates second largest operator of school bus ONE urban contracts in Porto and Marrakesh services in North America, spanning and international coach routes SILVERLINK two provinces and 25 states.
division operates over 14,000 school The Trains division operates a range of buses, delivering one million students to inter city, commuter and rural passenger school each day, serving more than 300 train services under franchise agreements school districts.
The franchises generally last for a period of seven years with the possibility of short-term extensions.
23 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 OPERATING REVIEW Revenue for the year was 207.3m In November, the National Express COACHES UK 2005: 200.5m with a normalised coach brand was awarded Superbrand operating profit of 23.7m 2005: status in a poll conducted amongst 21.5m.
Passenger growth of 5.5% more than 1,000 business professionals in the second half resulted in overall and a select panel of marketing, passenger growth of over 4%.
Our key advertising and branding experts by corridors have performed well and on YouGov.
In this prestigious survey some routes such as Bristol National Express was placed in the top and Stansted to London we have 300 brands as well as in the top 10 UK seen double digit passenger growth.
We are using this strong Our margins have increased above 11%.
position to develop our services to a Within our core schedule coaching broader customer base.
business, the success of yield managed We introduced easy access fares which ensure greater efficiency coaches onto a number of routes and utilisation of the fleet, helped drive across the network during 2006.
Such products enable us to four of these new style coaches are CHIEF EXECUTIVE, provide customers with improved value now operating on some of our busiest COACH DIVISION for money fares.
Funfares, from just 1, routes including East Midlands to are now offered on 32 popular routes.
Stansted Airport, Brighton to London Direct sales accounted for 65% of and Yorkshire to Heathrow and THE COACH DIVISION total sales and internet sales continued Gatwick.
Our new wheelchair PROVIDES BRITAINS ONLY to improve with over a quarter of all accessible Levante coach won two SCHEDULED NATIONAL bookings now made online, of which awards this year, Top Dual-Purpose COACH NETWORK AND over 90% of all tickets booked online Vehicle and the Clarkes Trophy for a SERVES MORE THAN 1,000 are distributed either as eor m-tickets coach offering the best access for the DESTINATIONS, PROVIDING or SMS messages.
We are committed to making APPROXIMATELY 19 MILLION New self service touch-screen the whole network fully accessible by fast issue ticket and journey planning the 2012 Olympics representing a CUSTOMER JOURNEYS kiosks have been installed at Heathrow, 100m investment.
THE AIRPORT Gatwick, Birmingham and Manchester During the year we worked closely SERVICES PROVIDE coach stations.
In September the with BAA at Heathrow to redevelop the PREMIER, HIGH FREQUENCY division scooped the top prize at the new 2.5m Central Bus Station SCHEDULED COACH National Customer Service Awards terminal.
This includes investment in SERVICES TO ALL THE winning Best Use of Technology in the infrastructure and taking on the UKS MAJOR AIRPORTS.
responsibility of operating the facility on EUROLINES OFFERS VALUE behalf of BAA.
We are working closely FOR MONEY EUROPEAN with BAA on the provision of coach TRAVEL BY COACH.
services for Heathrow Terminal 5 which THE DIVISION EMPLOYS opens in 2008.
Discussions regarding the redevelopment of Digbeth coach OVER 1,500 PEOPLE.
station are ongoing and we expect work to commence later this year.
BOOK YOUR TICKET ONLINE VIA WWW.
COM REVENUE AND RECEIVE IT ON YOUR MOBILE AS AN M-TICKET 207.3m 2005: 200.5m NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT 23.7m 2005: 21.5m 24 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 Revenue for the year was 300.8m This service regularly receives over BUSES UK 2005: 268.6m and normalised 3,000 hits a month.
We believe the operating profit was 40.7m provision of accurate, timely information 2005: 41.5m.
We are particularly is key to making our services attractive pleased with this result given the 9m and accessible to customers.
year-on-year increase in fuel costs.
Travel London continued to extend In Dundee we have relaunched a its operations with new contract awards number of radial routes around the city and extensions to existing contracts.
as part of our partnership agreement The redevelopment of the Battersea with Dundee City Council.
This included depot is planned which will give an the provision of new bus shelters and additional capacity for 100 buses.
customer information as well as In partnership with Surrey County investment in new liveries to promote Council and BAA, we are providing key the services.
A national concessionary services to support the construction of fares scheme was introduced in Heathrow Terminal 5.
NEIL BARKER Dundee in April 2006 and we have A Group priority for 2007 is to ACTING CHIEF EXECUTIVE, seen increases in both concessionary re-energise our relationships with BUS DIVISION and commercial patronage.
our key stakeholders in our heartland In the West Midlands we are bus operation in the West Midlands.
starting to see the benefits of the This will ensure that we develop new THE BUS DIVISION OPERATES launch of the national concessionary quality partnerships in the coming OVER 2,000 BUSES, fare scheme.
In partnership with year which will enable us to deliver PROVIDES APPROXIMATELY Coventry City Council, an improved marketing, customer care, investment 380 MILLION PASSENGER network was introduced following the in new buses and innovation.
Looking JOURNEYS AND EMPLOYS findings of a joint network study.
to the future we are working with Centro 7,000 PEOPLE IN THE WEST We continue to invest in our fleet.
and Birmingham City Council to put MIDLANDS, DUNDEE AND 80% of the West Midlands fleet is in place an overarching partnership low-floor, easy-access, the highest agreement to deliver improvements LONDON.
IT ALSO OPERATES percentage of any major fleet outside on selected key routes in the region.
THE MIDLAND METRO, THE London.
Automatic vehicle technology LIGHT RAIL SERVICE IN THE has been fitted to over 20% of the WEST MIDLANDS.
TWM fleet and real-time journey information is available across half of the network.
In addition SMS timetable and real-time information is available via SMS codes published at over 1,200 bus stops.
AN IMPROVED NETWORK IN COVENTRY REVENUE 300.8m 2005: 268.6m NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT 40.7m OUR SAFER TRAVEL INITIATIVE EXTENDS 2005: 41.5m INTO SURREY 25 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Revenue for the year was 1,497.6m In December we made our latest TRAINS UK 2005: 1,497.2m with normalised submission on the Brighton Main Line operating profit of 49.1m 2005: Route Utilisation Strategy, the outcome 64.2m.
The reduction in the operating of which will affect Gatwick Express.
profit primarily related to the transfer Our other London franchises performed of the Great Northern and Wessex well in the period.
At one a 25m modernisation and The division experienced a good refurbishment of the mainline inter city year with a 6.1% increase in passenger fleet was completed.
In April a new numbers driven by investment in customer service academy was opened services, good operational performance in London.
In addition the Stansted and strong airport growth.
Express has seen an enhanced In the industrys operational frequency to every 15 minutes and performance tables Gatwick Express seating capacity to cater for the topped the regional category and c2c increased demands of this growing DAVID FRANKS retained its position as Britains best airport.
To assist with the increased CHIEF EXECUTIVE, performing rail franchise.
Midland energy costs that the train industry TRAINS DIVISION Mainline retained its position as the UKs is facing, a project to introduce best performing inter city train company regenerative braking onto the one as well as Passenger Operator of the fleet of Class 360 trains is underway.
WE OPERATE C2C, CENTRAL Year award winner for 2006.
We have recently submitted our TRAINS, GATWICK EXPRESS, We have been working to bids for the East Midlands and New MIDLAND MAINLINE, ONE deliver greater value for money to our Cross Country franchises.
We believe INCLUDING THE STANSTED customers.
Off peak discounted fares we have submitted excellent bids which EXPRESS, AND SILVERLINK.
promotions have been introduced using reflect the aspirations and expectations WE PROVIDE 230 MILLION yield management systems in Midland of customers as well as the financial PASSENGER JOURNEYS Mainline MML and these have considerations of the Department for delivered growth of 20%.
We have also prequalified for PER YEAR AND EMPLOY the first train operator to launch a new the Inter City East Coast franchise, one 9,500 PEOPLE.
Print@Home facility, allowing customers of the most prestigious in the UK and to purchase and print their train tickets look forward to submitting a similarly at home.
In December the 50m excellent bid later in the year.
Whilst the Sheffield Station Gateway Masterplan, market for rail franchises remains a key hub for MML, was completed intense, we are committed to bidding and in the last quarter of the year, for franchises where we believe long MML moved into the new St. Pancras term growth and shareholder returns International station.
REVENUE C2C THE UKS BEST 1,497.6m PERFORMING RAILWAY 2005: 1,497.2m IN 2006 NATIONAL RAIL TRENDS, ORR NORMALISED OPERATING OUR CUSTOMER SERVICE ACADEMIES PROFIT PROVIDE A DEDICATED TRAINING RESOURCE FOR OUR PEOPLE 49.1m 2005: 64.2m 26 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 Our North American division goes from satisfaction.
The project will bring new NORTH AMERICA strength to strength.
Revenue in the standard, streamlined systems and division for the year was 283.7m processes to our operations, will 2005: 241.8m and normalised enhance significantly the quality of operating profit was 39.1m 2005: our information, allow our local 35.0m.
In local currency, revenue management to focus on the key roles was US$524.0m 2005: US$440.5m of customer and employee relationship and normalised operating profit was management and also develop our US$72.3m 2005: US$63.7m.
In addition to the In 2006 we experienced our best change in management focus, bidding season ever.
We won $30m of investment in technology is a key new business and achieved a retention enabler to deliver these improvements rate of greater than 95%.
We now and to achieve benefits of scale in operate in 25 US states and two such a geographically diverse business.
We expanded Ultimately the project will enable us BRIAN STOCK into Florida, New Jersey, Louisiana to improve our product offering and CHIEF EXECUTIVE, and Arkansas and completed six therefore achieve greater success.
As announced on 26 January, Our focus during the latter part the Port Authority of New York and of the year has been to integrate New Jersey Board Commissioners THE NORTH AMERICAN our North American companies have approved the purchase of the DIVISION CONSISTS OF under one management team.
operating lease at Stewart International STUDENT TRANSPORTATION.
Further progress continues in 2007 Airport, New York State for $78.5m.
IT OPERATES OVER with the amalgamation of key office Completion of the sale is anticipated 14,000 BUSES AND functions such as finance and in the second half of the year.
The focus on 200 MILLION PASSENGER one company and standardisation of processes and systems now provide JOURNEYS PER ANNUM.
us with the foundation to execute our THE DIVISION EMPLOYS Transformation Project.
Our Transformation Project, which commenced in the fourth quarter of 2006, is well underway and supporting further growth in North America.
Our focus is to differentiate our offering in the market and deliver even higher standards of customer service and THE HEART AND SOUL OF OUR OPERATIONS OUR CUSTOMERS AND DRIVERS REVENUE 283.7m 2005: 241.8m NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT 39.1m 2005: 35.0m 27 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Revenue in the year was 249.3m In December 2006, a 15 year contract ALSA SPAIN 2005: 18.2m and normalised to operate the urban network in the city operating profit was 44.3m 2005: of Leon was renewed and new school 2.6m.
We are delighted with the bus contracts were won in Levante.
progress of Alsa in its first full year as Bus station management contracts part of the Group.
Our experienced were awarded in Zaragoza and Seville.
local management team delivered The regional franchises in Cantabria, an excellent performance and the have been renewed until 2012 and financial integration project has been 2013 respectively.
We also acquired a successfully completed.
25% shareholding in Bilbobus, the We have continued to improve our largest private operator in Bilbao which fares and product offering.
Our long operates a fleet of over 270 buses.
distance coaching division saw Our Moroccan bus operation continues passenger growth of 2%.
Drawing on to flourish and we are currently our experience in the UK for the first shortlisted on a tender for 400 buses JAVIER CARBAJO time, we introduced promotional fares in the capital city of Rabat.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE, and special offers.
There has also been We were also pleased to be ALSA GROUP a greater focus on sales through the awarded, with partners Madrid Metro internet which now account for around and Caja Madrid bank, the concession 14% of total sales.
We believe we can to operate and maintain Madrids newly ALSA IS SPAINS LEADING further reduce our cost of sales through constructed light rail system which is PRIVATE OPERATOR OF increased promotion of the internet.
expected to commence in May 2007.
COACH AND BUS SERVICES During the year, our urban bus OPERATING 64 COACH division secured new business, AND 19 BUS CONCESSIONS retained contracts and moved into WITHIN THE SPANISH new geographic areas in Spain.
THE DIVISION We were awarded a contract to transfer customers to and from the new terminal PROVIDES NEARLY at Madrid Airport and we won two 62 MILLION PASSENGER new franchises in Catalonia to operate JOURNEYS PER ANNUM coach services from the AVE Station AND EMPLOYS OVER of Tarragona.
THE COACH IS A POPULAR OPTION FOR BUSINESS TRAVEL REVENUE 249.3m 2005: 18.2m NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT THE NEW TERMINAL 44.3m AT MADRID AIRPORT IS ONE OF A NUMBER OF 2005: 2.6m Alsa was acquired by the Group in December 2005.
NEW CONTRACTS 28 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 SUMMARY FINANCIAL REVIEW DIVISIONAL REVIEW Following the Groups announcement of Commentary on the divisional results the planned sale of the operating lease is included in the Operational Review.
on Stewart International Airport to the Other financial points to note are Port Authority of New York in 2007, the included below.
assets and related liabilities of the disposal group have been separately ALSA identified on the balance sheet, in In local currency, Alsas results are accordance with IFRS 5, Non-current revenue of a365.6m 2005: a26.7m assets held for sale and discontinued and a normalised operating profit of operations.
meet the definition of a discontinued This year has seen a great deal of operation, therefore the results, which work on the financial integration of Alsa, do not make a significant contribution, ADAM WALKER which is now complete.
The integration are included within continuing FINANCE DIRECTOR has involved the development of Alsa operations.
reporting processes to deliver financial results prepared under IFRS in line with JOINT VENTURES AND YEAR AT A GLANCE the Groups month end timetable.
ASSOCIATES We have achieved another strong set In addition, the valuation work on We hold a 40% investment in of results, increasing profit before tax intangibles and key assets has been Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited by 17% to 104.1m 2005: 89.3m, completed and the 31 December 2005 ICRRL and account for a number driven by a 29% increase in operating balance sheet updated in accordance of associates and joint ventures profit to 141.6m 2005: 109.5m.
Diluted earnings per share from The total charge for associates and TRAINS continuing operations improved 18% joint ventures was 29.5m 2005: Increased fuel costs have added 5.3m to 52.5p 2005: 44.5p.
8.8m, which comprises our share of to the cost base this year.
We expect Our financial key performance the post tax results from associates and electricity charges to increase in 2007, indicators are based on normalised joint ventures of 3.8m 2005: 8.8m although efficiency benefits such as results, which we feel reflect the and a 25.7m exceptional charge for regenerative braking would offset performance of the business more the designation of the Groups Eurostar this increase.
Normalised results are contract with ICRRL as an onerous Bid costs remain a significant defined as the statutory result before contract.
As noted at the half year we investment for this Division with a total the following, as appropriate: profit have provided for the Eurostar losses cost of 9.8m 2005: 6.1m included or loss on the sale of businesses, to the end of the contract in 2010. in normalised operating profit.
exceptional profit or loss on the disposal Our share of the operating profit As part of the DfT current of non-current assets and charges for for Altram for the period to 14 March re-mapping exercise, Central Trains, goodwill impairment, intangible asset 2006 was 0.1m 2005: loss of 0.2m.
Silverlink and Midland Mainline will run amortisation, exceptional items and tax The results of the joint ventures and until November 2007. relief thereon as appropriate.
associates within Alsa were a loss of BUSES Normalised Group operating profit 0.2m 2005: nil and a profit of 0.2m was up by 19% to 184.8m 2005: On 2 March 2006, we received 2005: nil respectively.
155.5m, on revenue of 2,525.5m clearance from the Office of Fair FINANCE COST Trading regarding our acquisition of 2005: 2,216.0m resulting in an Net interest payable increased to the outstanding 67% share holding increased operating margin of 7.3% 24.9m 2005: 11.4m, principally in Altram LRT Limited Altram.
Normalised profit before reflecting a higher level of net debt tax increased by 15% to 156.1m Completion occurred on 14 March as a result of the Alsa acquisition in 2005: 135.3m.
With an increase 2006 and the results of Altram have December 2005.
This was offset by been fully consolidated from this date.
in the effective tax rate from 21.8% the weakening of the US dollar which A normalised operating loss of 0.4m to 25.1% and the loss of rail profits, decreased the cost of servicing our is included in the divisional result.
normalised diluted earnings per share foreign currency denominated financing.
from continuing operations marginally NORTH AMERICA After excluding nil 2005: 5.1m for increased to 76.5p 2005: 76.3p.
In local currency, North America discontinued operations, continuing Net debt decreased by 125.0m increased normalised operating profit normalised operating profit before to 438.4m.
The proposed full year to US$72.3m 2005: US$63.7m.
depreciation and other non-cash items dividend per share will be increased Revenue has increased by US$83.5m EBITDA was 264.0m 2005: by 8% to 34.75p 2005: 32.25p.
212.5m and continuing EBITDA Additional legal costs and a new pay finance cover was 11.6 times award in Canada contributed to a 2005: 20.2 times.
The historic fuel hedges that were in place have ended in 2006, which will lead to a US$13m increase in the cost base in 2007.
29 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 SUMMARY FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED GOODWILL AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS TAXATION INTANGIBLE ASSETS Exceptional items totalled a net The total tax charge of 23.6m The goodwill and intangible assets income of 4.8m 2005: cost of 7.8m, 2005: 27.5m on profit before tax of arising on the Alsa acquisition in 2005 comprising a credit of 6.7m in relation 104.1m 2005: 89.3m represents an were provisionally classified as goodwill to defined benefit pension liabilities and effective rate of 22.7% 2005: 30.8%.
They have now charges of 1.9m in relation to the The tax charge on normalised profit of been reallocated within the balance integration of Alsa.
This has resulted in 174.2m reflects a negative past service cost 2005: 29.5m, which represents an reclassified as intangible assets that arises as a result of the A-day effective rate of 25.1% 2005: 21.8%.
representing the contracts acquired with changes to pension legislation which The normalised effective tax rate has the business.
The balance of 294.1m, increased the maximum limit on increased due to the higher proportion after further fair value adjustments, the lump-sum benefits that can be of overseas earnings in the Group.
withdrawn tax free on retirement.
The total tax charge includes a tax Amortisation of 27.8m 2005: We believe that to disclose this credit credit on exceptional items of 15.6m 4.9m was charged on the intangible within normalised profit would present 2005: 2.0m which includes the asset that arises from the Groups right a misleading picture of the results.
deferred tax impact of the Groups nonto operate its rail franchises 1.6m The profit on disposal of deductible intangible asset amortisation.
and on contracts acquired in Alsa non-current assets of 16.9m CASH FLOW 20.1m, UK Bus 1.6m and comprises 7.5m of profit on the The Group continues to generate North America 4.5m.
disposal of a car park in Sheffield and strong cash flow with a cash inflow from The impairment charge for the year 9.4m of profit on disposal of our 14% operations of 182.0m 2005: 79.9m, on the goodwill arising from the shareholding in Trainline.
Both profits which includes an outflow of 27.7m in acquisition of Prism Rail PLC in relate to the UK Trains division.
relation to the franchise exits in March.
December 2000 was 19.2m DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS The Groups operating cash flow by 2005: 33.3m : this goodwill is now An additional provision of 3.2m was Division and reconciliation of net debt fully amortised.
Although IFRS 3, booked in relation to the Groups Public are set out in tables 1 and 2. Business Combinations prohibits Transit business which was disposed The increase reflects the full year the amortisation of goodwill, the train of in 2005.
This provision reflects contribution from Alsa of 40.1m franchises acquired with Prism have the Directors best estimate of the 2005: outflow of 1.2m and the finite lives, and therefore the goodwill has been impaired over the remaining Groups liability regarding an industry benefit of various working capital timing cash flows.
wide employment issue in California, benefits in UK Trains and Central A goodwill impairment charge of over which the Group provided an functions.
This cash flow was used 1.0m has been charged on goodwill indemnity to the purchaser at the time to maintain high levels of investment acquired with the remaining share of the disposal.
across the Group, particularly in North capital of Altram.
America where most of the capital expenditure relates to contract wins.
TABLE 1: OPERATING CASH FLOW North UK UK UK American Central Bus Coaches Trains Bus Alsa functions Total m m m m m m m Normalised operating profit 40.7 23.7 49.1 39.1 44.3 12.1 184.8 Depreciation 15.7 5.7 21.6 25.3 12.9 0.5 81.7 Amortisation of leasehold property prepayment 0.1 0.5 0.6 Amortisation of fixed asset grants 1.9 0.1 2.0 Profit on disposal 0.2 0.1 2.2 0.6 0.4 3.1 Share-based payment 0.4 0.1 0.3 0.2 1.0 2.0 EBITDA 57.1 29.4 66.9 64.5 56.7 10.6 264.0 Working capital movement 15.7 0.2 34.3 12.2 0.3 26.2 33.1 Net cash inflow from operations 41.4 29.6 101.2 52.3 57.0 15.6 297.1 Net capital expenditure 16.1 3.8 12.3 38.0 16.9 0.3 87.4 Operating cash flow before one-offs 25.3 25.8 88.9 14.3 40.1 15.3 209.7 Other Franchise exits 27.7 Operating cash flow 182.0 Operating cash flow is intended to be the cash flow equivalent to normalised operating profit.
To reconcile the operating cash flow to the statutory cash flow the following items are included: Cash generated from operations of 254.5m 2005: 181.1m plus Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment of 24.3m 2005: 8.1m less Finance lease additions of 20.7m 2005: 57.0m and Purchase of property, plant and equipment of 73.5m 2005: 61.7m.
The non-operating items are then excluded which comprise 13.0m exceptional property proceeds, 8.4m payment to associates and 2.0m payments in relation to other exceptional items.
30 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 The working capital outflow in UK Bus Net interest paid of 20.6m comprising DIVIDEND comprises payments to the defined the cash outflow of 19.7m adjusted for An interim dividend of 10.75p per share benefit pension schemes in excess of loan fee amortisation of 0.9m is in line was paid in October 2006 and a final the income statement charge and the with last year as the 2005 cash flow dividend of 24.0p per share will be paid losses associated with the onerous included the termination of a US$200m in May 2007, bringing the total dividend contracts in our London business.
interest rate swap during the year.
This is a 8% The working capital movement in The receipt of tax rebates in increase in total dividends declared UK Trains relates to amounts received respect of prior years resulted in compared to 2005.
This dividend is in the year in relation to 2005.
In North reduced tax payments this year.
covered 2.2 times 2005: 2.3 times America, a timing difference has Acquisitions and disposals includes by normalised profits after tax.
contributed to the working capital the acquisitions in the year of 19.8m, FACILITIES outflow.
The cash flow benefit in Central deferred consideration of 3.0m, During the first half of the year, we Functions arises through the restructure acquisition of associates and refinanced our two existing bank debt of our insurance arrangements.
investments of 8.7m and proceeds facilities into one new 800 million five Net capital expenditure was from the disposal of investments and year revolving credit facility maturing in 87.4m 2005: 110.6m including intangible assets of 14.7m.
As at 31 December 2006, 20.7m 2005: 57.0m of additions outflow includes the acquisition of Alsa the headroom under the facility was purchased under finance leases and for 367.4m.
TABLE 2: RECONCILIATION OF NET DEBT 2006 2005 m m Operating cash flow 182.0 79.9 Exceptional cash flow 2.0 7.7 Exceptional property proceeds 13.0 Payments to associates 8.4 1.7 Net interest 20.6 22.0 Taxation 9.0 26.7 Share buy back 11.6 29.3 Financial investments and shares 15.8 8.4 Acquisitions and disposals 16.8 359.1 Dividends 49.7 41.6 Net funds flow 92.7 399.8 Foreign exchange 32.3 27.0 Funds flow post exchange 125.0 426.8 Opening net debt 563.4 136.6 Closing net debt 438.4 563.4 31 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ITS ABOUT WHAT WE DO AND HOW WE DO IT ational Express Groups our coach services, longer trains, rail commitment to corporate platform extensions, and greater usage responsibility goes far of buses for journeys where cars have beyond a passing historically been used.
We Review highlighted the important role believe that corporate that transport can play in tackling responsibility CR is about what we climate change and this is supported do and how we do it.
by Transport 2000, a leading non Corporate responsibility is at the government transport organisation, heart of what we do.
We report more which has highlighted that there are fully on our initiatives through our large net savings to be made when THE ULTIMATE IN dedicated Corporate Responsibility customers use public transport services ENERGY EFFICIENCY Report which is published each yearat instead of a car.
It is the role of public AND LUXURY ALSAS SUPRA COACH the time of our Annual General Meeting.
transport operators to make their Our profile in the CR area has also been services attractive to encourage car evidenced through our involvement with users to use public transport services.
key organisations in the field and our We know from our own research inclusion in a number of key CR indices: that there are net savings from the Dow Jones Sustainability and the customers using our services instead FTSE4Good.
of the car with coach travel being the With the forecasted increase most efficient of all modes.
This is in leisure travel and greater wealth highlighted on page 21.
With the enabling more time spent travelling, coach being the most environmentally public transport has a key role to play friendly mode, during 2007 we will be in improving our quality of life.
Our 2006 promoting the environmental benefits CR report will focus specifically on of travelling by coach.
highlighting to policymakers the At National Express we have been contribution that public transport can leading the industry in driving forward make to the economic, social and the national environmental agenda by environmental landscape and the overall heading up forums in the sectors quality of life.
We chair and guide much of the debate amongst rail CLIMATE CHANGE operators at the Rail Sustainability This year has seen the increased profile Development Group and participation of climate change.
The environmental in this forum has led to the rail industrys benefits of public transport have been commitment to reduce carbon very much at the forefront following emissions by 5% over the next 10 years.
the publication of the Department for Transports Eddington Transport Study and the Stern Review on the Economics of Climate Change.
As operators we are already providing additional capacity through growth in 32 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 In 2007 we have shown our danger level is at its lowest ever at commitment to reducing emissions 0.76 signals passed at danger per by joining the Climate Group, an million miles compared to 0.79 in independent, non profit organisation 2005.
We look forward to continuing dedicated to advancing business and this improvement.
government leadership on climate FUTURE LEADERS change.
We are one of the founding During 2006 the Group has members and will be developing developed a comprehensive leadership practical promotions and initiatives development strategy on the back of as part of the Were In This Together the Group Employee Survey which campaign to encourage changes in highlighted that a leaders performance individual behaviour which reduce has a big impact, both good and bad, carbon emissions.
As part of this Group on those around them.
This strategy we believe that by making it easier for ensures that as we grow our business, individuals to change their behaviour we develop those who will lead the through our products, services and business in the future.
The three year communications we can, step-by-step, leadership development plan has change public attitudes from concern to projects including personal and skills focus on positive action.
By signing up development, talent and succession to this initiative we have committed to planning, performance management, the development of a consumer reward and recognition, in addition to proposition which will make a difference.
ENGINEERS PROVIDE graduate and non graduate recruitment.
In addition we are participating in the COMPREHENSIVE AND Through focus groups we have REGULAR VEHICLE WWF One Planet Business discussion identified seven leadership capabilities MAINTENANCE TO ENSURE forum where companies with an interest THE HIGHEST EFFICIENCY to drive our business success.
Over the in sustainability will develop longer AND SAFETY STANDARDS coming year all our leaders, about term initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions.
LISTENING AND 4,000 of them, will be involved from the RESPONDING TO OUR CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT frontline to the boardroom.
CUSTOMERS NEEDS Within our operation we have trialled STAKEHOLDER RECOGNITION alternative fuels such as biodiesel in We are also focused on the requirements a fleet of 40 buses within the Alsa of our external stakeholders, many of fleet.
Within our Trains division we whom are key for the development of undertook a detailed review of energy our operations.
This identified a number from those who award us contracts of engineering and operational such as the Department for Transport, measures we can take to improve local authorities, transport bodies and energy efficiency and we are now school boards to our customers who focused on delivering these.
We have use our services each day.
In addition also implemented regenerative braking there are numerous other stakeholders across the divisions electric-powered such as non government organisations, fleet.
Most significantly we have Trades Unions, suppliers and reduced site energy usage at our user groups with whom we have train depots by 17% during the year.
In addition, the safety and Working with our stakeholders development of our people are key to we believe the biggest challenge for the success of our business as well as public transport in the future is to make our contribution and reputation in those its use easy and simple whether it be communities where we operate.
The planning journeys or the actual Groups overall vision is for continuous experience.
To make this a reality improvement in health, safety and during 2007, our commitment to environmental management and our customers will be focused on practice and, where appropriate, Making Travel Simpler.
n continuous improvement in health, safety and environmental performance.
In 2006 we continued to reduce the risk to customer and employee injuries across our operations and are pleased to report that our signals passed at 33 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY DIRECTORS 12 1 DAVID ROSS CHAIRMAN 2 RICHARD BOWKER CBE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 3 ADAM WALKER FINANCE DIRECTOR 4 RAY OTOOLE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER 5 SIR ANDREW FOSTER NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 6 BARRY GIBSON NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 7 SUE LYONS OBE 34 NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 8 JORGE COSMEN NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 9 TIM SCORE NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 10 TONY MCDONALD COMPANY SECRETARY 56 78 910 34 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY 1 DAVID ROSS 6 BARRY GIBSON CHAIRMAN NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR # David Ross joined the Board in February 2001 Barry Gibson joined the Board in November as a Non Executive Director and became 1999 and became the Senior Independent Chairman in May 2004.
He is Non Executive Director in September 2005.
He served on the Deputy Chairman of The Carphone Warehouse Board at BAA plc as Group Retailing Director.
Group PLC, a Non Executive Director of Trinity Until October 2001 he was the Group Chief Mirror PLC, Big Yellow Group PLC and Executive of Littlewoods Organisation plc.
He is also a Non Executive Director of William Aged 41.
Hill PLC and Homeserve plc.
2 RICHARD BOWKER CBE 7 SUE LYONS OBE CHIEF EXECUTIVE NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR # Richard Bowker was appointed to the Board Sue Lyons joined the Board in May 2001. as Chief Executive on 12 September 2006.
Her career has been principally with Rolls He was formerly Chief Executive of Royce which she joined in 1975 and where Partnerships for Schools PfS, a government she held the position of Managing Director, body responsible for delivering the Building Defence Europe.
In 1998 she received an Schools for the Future Investment Programme.
OBE for services to the engineering industry Between December 2001 and September and in 1999 she was awarded the European 2004 he was Chairman and Chief Executive Woman of Achievement Award Business of the Strategic Rail Authority.
Sue is also a Non Executive Director he was Group Commercial Director of Virgin DIVISIONAL HEADS of Wagon plc.
Group and Co-chairman of Virgin Rail.
Richard NEIL BARKER 8 JORGE COSMEN is a chartered management accountant and a ACTING CHIEF EXECUTIVE, BUS DIVISION NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Non Executive Director of British Waterways.
Neil Barker joined the Group as Operations Director of Jorge Cosmen was appointed to the Board Aged 41. the Groups Bus Division in January 2005.
In February on 1 December 2005 at the time of the Alsa 2007 he was appointed Acting Chief Executive of the 3 ADAM WALKER transaction.
He was Corporate Manager for Bus Division.
Neil joined the Company from Arriva plc FINANCE DIRECTOR the Alsa Group from 1995, becoming where he held a number of senior management roles Adam Walker joined the Board in March 2003, Chairman in 1999.
Between 1986 and 1995 latterly as managing director of the Midlands Regional Bus business.
He joined the Group in he worked in sales, distribution and banking.
October 2001 as Corporate Development He is a Business Administration graduate and PAUL BUNTING Director working closely with the Groups has an International MBA from the Instituto fide CHIEF EXECUTIVE, COACH DIVISION operational subsidiaries on developing their Empresa in Madrid.
Paul Bunting joined the Group in 2004 as Managing financial strategies.
Prior to joining the Group Director at Midland Mainline from Stagecoach, where 9 TIM SCORE he was Director of Corporate Finance at he was Business Development Director for the UK NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR # Bus Division.
Prior to that Paul has held a number Arthur Andersen and an Associate Director Tim Score was appointed to the Board in of senior positions within the rail industry, principally at NatWest Markets.
He is Chief Financial Officer in planning and marketing roles in both InterCity accountant.
Before joining ARM he and Regional Railway businesses.
Aged 47. worked as Finance Director of Rebus Group 4 RAY OTOOLE JAVIER CARBAJO Limited which he joined in 1999.
Between CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER CHIEF EXECUTIVE, ALSA GROUP 1997 and 1999, he was Group Finance Ray OToole joined the Board in November Javier Carbajo joined the Group in December 2005 Director of William Baird plc, which he joined 1999 as Chief Operating Officer.
He has when National Express acquired Alsa.
A graduate in from LucasVarity plc.
He is a chartered economics and with an MBA, Javier has been with 30 years operational experience in transport.
Alsa for 28 years during which time he has held accountant.
He spent the early part of his career in various management positions in most areas of the business.
engineering management positions at Greater 10 TONY MCDONALD In 1999 he was appointed Chief Executive of Manchester Passenger Transport Executive.
COMPANY SECRETARY Enatcar following its acquisition by Alsa.
In 2003 He joined National Express from FirstGroup Tony McDonald was appointed Company he was appointed CEO of Alsa Group.
Aged 54. plc, where he was responsible for its Secretary in May 2000.
Prior to joining the DAVID FRANKS operations in Yorkshire and the North West as Group he held senior legal positions with CHIEF EXECUTIVE, TRAINS DIVISION both Divisional Director and Group Engineering the in-house legal teams at Guardian Royal David Franks joined the Group in January 2003 as Director.
He is a Member of the British Exchange and BP and in private practice with Trains Divisional Director North.
He was appointed Transport Police Authority.
Aged 51. as Chief Executive of the Trains Division in February Slaughter and May.
David has over 30 years experience in the Aged 46.
5 SIR ANDREW FOSTER rail industry and immediately prior to joining National NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Express he was Managing Director of South Central Sir Andrew was appointed to the Board in at the GoAhead Group.
Member of the Audit Committee August 2004.
He has had an extensive career Member of the BRIAN STOCK in the public sector having served as Chief CHIEF EXECUTIVE, NORTH AMERICA Nomination Committee Executive of the Audit Commission for England Brian joined the Group in 2002 through the # Member of the and Wales between 1992 and 2003.
Before acquisition of Stock Transportation.
He has overseen Remuneration Committee this he was Deputy Chief Executive of the NHS the North American student bus operations since Member of the Safety and and is currently Deputy Chairman of the Royal March 2004 and was appointed as Chief Executive Environment Committee Bank of Canada Europe Limited and a Non of the Groups North American operations in October Executive Director of the Sports Council, 2004.
Brian has had over 25 years in the bus industry.
Nestor Health Care and PruHealth.
Sir Andrew Prior to joining the Group, Brian was President of Stock Transportation and responsible for guiding has also recently completed reviews of Further the business to become the fifth largest school bus Education and Athletics for the Government.
35 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES National Express Group PLC is the holding company of the National Express Group of companies.
Its subsidiary companies provide mass passenger transport services in the UK and overseas.
BUSINESS REVIEW More detailed information about the Groups activities, performance and future development can be found in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review and reviews of the Groups businesses on pages 3 to 33, which are incorporated into this report by reference.
DIVIDENDS The Directors recommend a final net dividend of 24.0p per share which, together with the interim net dividend of 10.75p per share paid on 20 October 2006, gives a total net dividend for the year of 34.75p per share 2005: 32.25p.
If approved by shareholders, the final dividend will be paid on 4 May 2007 to shareholders on the register at 27 April 2007.
DIRECTORS The Directors of the Company who served during the year were: David Ross Richard Bowker appointed 12 September 2006 Jorge Cosmen Sir Andrew Foster Barry Gibson Sue Lyons Ray OToole Tim Score Adam Walker Phil White resigned 11 September 2006 David Ross and Barry Gibson will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Richard Bowker will stand for election at the Annual General Meeting following his appointment to the Board on 12 September 2006.
Phil White resigned as Chief Executive and a Director of the Company on 11 September 2006.
The names and biographies of the current Directors appear on pages 34 and 35.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors, their interests in shares of the Company and service contracts are contained in the Summary Directors Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 44.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The Company has been notified of the following holders of 3% or more of its issued share capital excluding treasury shares for the purpose of Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985, as at 26 February 2007: European Express Enterprises Ltd 19,976,298 13.08% Newton Investment Management Ltd 15,320,955 10.09% Standard Life Group 6,696,605 4.40% Aegon Asset Management UK plc 6,425,409 4.23% Barclays Bank PLC 5,116,365 3.37% Legal & General Group Plc 5,070,738 3.33% Percentages as at date of notification.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting will be held on 1 May 2007.
Shareholders will be asked to approve five items of special business, details of which are given in the Notice of Meeting accompanying this report.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES The Company was granted authority at the Annual General Meeting in 2006 to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal capital.
This authority expires at this years Annual General Meeting and a resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
The share buy back programme initiated by the Company in 2005 as part of its overall finance strategy, continued in 2006.
During the period 10 May 2006 to 15 June 2006 the Company made the following purchases of its ordinary 5p shares: Percentage of Average Number issued share Nominal purchase of shares capital value price Shares purchased 1,425,000 0.93% 71,250 8.11 Shares cancelled Shares put into treasury 1,425,000 0.93% 71,250 As at 26 February 2007 the Company held a total of 1,825,000 ordinary 5p shares nominal value 91,250 in treasury equal to 1.2% of the issued share capital.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Directors Report confirm that: so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
GOING CONCERN It should be recognised that any consideration of the foreseeable future involves making a judgement, at a particular point in time, about future events which are inherently uncertain.
Nevertheless, at the time of preparation of these accounts and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
36 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 SUMMARY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance and ethical practices within all its operations and continues to review its policies on an ongoing basis.
The Board has endorsed a set of principles which establish the framework for how its businesses operate.
Key to these is working in an open and honest manner.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE In the opinion of the Directors the Company has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2003 the Combined Code throughout the year apart from provision B.
9 notice periods as follows: the notice period of Ray OToole, which previously had been 12 months, was increased to 24 months as at 1 September 2006.
This period reduces on a daily basis such that on 1 September 2007 the notice period will be 12 months.
This change was approved by the Remuneration Committee on the appointment of a new Chief Executive to the Group to try to ensure continuity of management.
APPLYING THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors The Directors believe it is essential for the Group to be led and controlled by an effective Board that provides entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of sound controls.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategic aims, its values and standards and ensuring the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve its goals.
The Board consists of the Chairman, three Executive and five Non Executive Directors.
The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive are held separately and the division of responsibility between them is clearly defined.
Barry Gibson is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board considers all of the Non Executive Directors to be independent other than Jorge Cosmen, and considered David Ross to be independent prior to his appointment as Chairman.
Mr Cosmen is not considered to be independent by the Board due to his close links with the Alsa business and significant interests in the shares of the Company which are held through European Express Enterprises Limited.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups businesses, implementation of its strategy, policies and budgets and its financial performance.
Executive management meetings, involving the Executive Directors and senior management from the divisions are held regularly to discuss current issues.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The Board has established a number of committees with defined terms of reference.
The principal committees are the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Safety and Environment Committee.
In addition there is an Executive Committee with authority to approve routine matters of business and a Tax and Treasury Committee which reviews the Groups tax planning, banking facilities and treasury reports.
The terms of reference of the Committees are set out in the Annual Report and Accounts and are available on the Companys website.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
External advisers are normally appointed when recruiting Board members: they use as a basis for their search a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment proposed by the Nomination Committee.
INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Reports from the Executive Directors, which include in-depth financial information, are circulated to Board members prior to every Board meeting.
Senior management and advisers give presentations to the Board on significant matters during the year.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations are complied with and advises the Board on governance matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
There is a procedure in place for any Director to take independent professional advice where considered necessary.
On appointment, Directors are offered an appropriate training course and are thereafter encouraged to keep abreast of matters affecting their duties as a Director and to attend training courses relevant to their role.
An induction process is in place for new Directors.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION During the year the annual performance evaluation, led by the Senior Independent Director, was undertaken by an external third party.
The evaluation covered in scope the Boards performance, its Committees and the Chairman.
The evaluation process involved a detailed questionnaire with input from all of the Directors followed by individual interviews.
Feedback was given to individual Directors and to the Board as a whole and action plans were developed as appropriate.
These will be reviewed as part of the 2007 evaluation.
RE-ELECTION In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association all Directors submit themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years.
Non Executive Directors are appointed for specific terms, subject to re-election.
Non Executive Directors will only be put forward for re-election if, following performance evaluation, the Board believes the Directors performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
37 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 SUMMARY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED INTERNAL CONTROL The Boards responsibilities The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues and has put in place an organisational structure with formally defined lines of responsibility, delegated authorities and clear operating processes.
The systems that the Board has established are designed to safeguard both the shareholders investment and the assets of the Group, and are described below.
Key elements of the control framework Strategic and financial planning an annual budgeting and strategic planning process has been established whereby each division and constituent operating company assesses its competitive position and goals, taking account of the strategic risks faced.
This strategy is translated into a financial plan with clear milestones and performance indicators.
Performance management the performance of each division and operating company against its plan is closely monitored by a formal monthly reporting process and by the attendance of the Executive Directors at monthly divisional Board meetings.
Annual fitness check process a self assessment review takes place at each operating company to assess the integrity of the balance sheet and to challenge the effective operation of key financial and information systems controls within each material accounting cycle.
This process is led by divisional finance Directors and is closely monitored by group finance and validated by the internal audit function.
Capital investment a clear process is in place for the approval of capital expenditure, which includes detailed appraisal of the benefits of the proposed investment and any associated key risks.
Material capital expenditure requires Board approval.
Health and safety Health and safety standards and benchmarks have been established in all our businesses and the performance of operating companies in meeting these standards is closely monitored.
Risk management reporting process each division and operating company evaluates its internal control environment and key risks, and the results are cascaded through management levels and the Audit Committee before being presented to the Board.
This process is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure the validity and relevance of the key risks reported and presented to the Board on a quarterly basis, unless exceptional issues arise.
The review covers strategic, financial, compliance and risk management controls.
These procedures are mandated and designed to manage the risk in order to ensure that the operations achieve their business objectives.
Internal audit the internal control system is independently monitored and supported by an outsourced internal audit function.
The internal audit function reports to management and the Audit Committee on the Groups financial and operational controls, and reviews the extent to which its recommendations have been implemented.
Board-level reporting on internal control during the year the Audit Committee has reviewed regular reports from the internal audit function, the external auditors, and executive management on matters relating to internal control, financial reporting and risk management.
The Audit Committee provides the Board with an independent assessment of the Groups financial position, accounting affairs and control systems.
In addition, the Board receives regular reports on how specific risks that are assessed as material to the Group are being managed.
38 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The members of the Committee are shown on page 35.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: determine the fees of the Chairman: determine the remuneration and conditions of employment including any termination arrangements of the Executive Directors: approve the remuneration and conditions of employment of the Divisional Chief Executives and Company Secretary: review the remuneration and conditions of employment of the senior management team: select and appoint any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
REMUNERATION OF NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The fees of the Non Executive Directors are set by the Board as a whole following an annual review.
The review takes account of fees paid for similar positions in the market, the time commitment required from the Director estimated to be 100 days per year for the Chairman and 20 days per year for the other Non Executive Directors and any additional responsibilities undertaken, such as acting as Chairman to one of the Board committees or Senior Independent Director.
Non Executive Directors are not eligible to receive pension entitlements or bonuses and may not participate in share option schemes.
For 2006 the basic fee for acting as a Non Executive Director was 40,000 a year.
An additional fee of 5,000 was paid for chairing one of the Board Committees.
An extra fee of 5,000 is paid to the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman, David Ross, has elected to take all of his fees as National Express Group shares.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Remuneration policy is based on the following broad principles set by the Committee: to provide a competitive remuneration package to attract and retain quality individuals: to align remuneration to drive the overall objectives of the business: to align the interests of management with the interests of shareholders: and to provide the foundation for overall reward and remuneration beyond the specific roles governed by the Remuneration Committee.
In implementing its policy, the Committee gives full consideration to the principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance with regard to Directors remuneration.
Remuneration policy is reviewed on an ongoing basis against the Committees broad principles and in light of emerging best practice in corporate governance.
During the year consideration was given to a new performance appraisal system.
As a result of the review a new appraisal system was introduced for the Executive Directors.
This has also been cascaded down to senior management throughout the Group.
Performance Related Versus Fixed Remuneration % FIXED VERSUS VARIABLE REMUNERATION A substantial proportion of the Executive Directors pay is performance 04 related.
The table opposite shows the balance between fixed and Target performance related pay at target and maximum performance levels.
Maximum Maximum performance assumes achievement of maximum bonus and full vesting of shares under the LTIP.
0% 25% 50% 75% 100% Value of shares vesting Performance related bonus Basic salary excluding pension contributions and benefits SUMMARY OF THE COMPONENTS OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION i Basic salary The salary of individual Executive Directors is reviewed at 1 January each year.
Account is taken of the performance of the individual concerned, together with any change in responsibilities that may have occurred and the rates for similar roles in a comparator group of companies.
The comparator group for the 2006 financial year was made up of two groups of companies.
These were a group of transport sector companies with a median market capitalisation of 1,280m and a group of companies from the FTSE Mid 250 drawn from all sectors with a median market capitalisation of 1,389m which reflects that of National Express following its merger with Alsa.
For 2007 the comparator groups will be based on similar groups of transport leisure and general sector companies drawn from the FTSE 250. ii Performance-related bonus The maximum potential bonus payable to Executive Directors was 100% of salary for 2006.
70% of the bonus payable was based on financial targets and 30% based on non-financial targets.
The non-financial targets encompass customer, operational excellence and people objectives.
No bonus is payable unless the Groups normalised profit budget is achieved.
Normalised profit is profit before tax, goodwill impairment, intangible amortisation and exceptional items.
Directors receive 50% of that part of the bonus referable to financial targets upon achieving budget and 100% of that part upon achieving a stretch target, which for 2006, was 107% of budget.
The stretch financial targets for 2006 have been met in full.
The balance of the 2006 bonus payable to individual Directors was, therefore, dependent on individual performance against the Directors personal objectives.
For 2007 bonus payments will be based on a similar structure.
39 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED iii Pensions Under the terms of their service agreements, Executive Directors are entitled to become members of one of the Group pension schemes or, if preferred, to receive payment of a fixed percentage of salary.
Adam Walker is a member of the National Express Group Staff Pension Plan the Plan which is an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved defined benefit scheme.
The benefits from this Plan are subject to HMRC limits.
Spouses pensions are provided in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
Ray OToole was a member of this Plan until 7 April 2006 and he now receives a salary supplement of 44% in lieu of pension contributions.
Richard Bowker is not a member of a company pension scheme and receives a 25% salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
iv Incentive scheme Long term incentive arrangements The National Express Group Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Meeting and operates as the Companys sole type of executive long term incentive arrangement.
The LTIP consists of annual awards of performance and matching shares.
Details of the plan are provided below.
Performance Shares Executive Directors are eligible to receive a conditional award of shares up to an equivalent of 1 x their annual basic salary.
The vesting of the award is conditional on meeting the performance conditions set out below.
Matching shares Executive Directors are also eligible to receive awards of matching shares that are based on a personal investment in National Express Group shares funded either through a personal investment for example using an annual bonus award or through pledging of shares already held but not already allocated to the LTIP.
The maximum investment pledge is 30% of gross salary per annum.
Matching awards are based on the ratio of 100 shares for every 30 shares purchased.
This is a two for one ratio on a grossed up for income tax basis.
Matching share awards are also conditional on the performance conditions set out below.
Performance conditions There are two distinct performance conditions applying to awards made.
First, the performance condition attached to one-half of an award Part A is based on the Companys normalised diluted earnings per share EPS growth performance in excess of inflation over a fixed three year period three financial years commencing with the financial year in which the award is made.
The performance condition attached to the other half of an award Part B is based on the Companys TSR performance over the same fixed three year period relative to the TSR of a comparator group of over 20 transport companies taken predominantly from the FTSE Industrial Transportation and FTSE Travel & Leisure sectors.
The companies comprising the comparator group have been chosen on the basis of their comparability to National Express Group based on their size and scope of business operations.
There is no ability to retest either performance condition.
For awards made in 2005 and 2006 Parts A and B will vest in accordance with the tables below: Average growth in the Companys normalised diluted EPS in excess of ination CPI Percentage of Part A that vests Less than 3% 0% 3% 30% 6% 100% Between 3% and 6% 30%100% pro rata Normalised diluted earnings per share are before tax, goodwill impairment, intangible amortisation and exceptional items.
CPI is a weighted measure of inflation calculated to reflect the scope of the Groups international operations and is currently based two-thirds on UK CPI and one-third on US CPI.
Rank of the Companys Total Shareholder Return against a comparator group Percentage of Part B that vests Below median 0% Median 30% 20th percentile 100% Between median and 20th percentile 30% and 100% pro rata EPS and TSR were chosen for the LTIP as the most appropriate measures of National Expresss long term performance since EPS remains an important growth measure and driver and TSR improves shareholder alignment and is consistent with Company objectives of providing long term returns to shareholders.
40 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 PERFORMANCE GRAPHS The following graphs show a comparison of National Express Group PLC total cumulative shareholder return against that achieved by the FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure Index and the FTSE 250 Index.
These graphs have been selected because the Company is a constituent of each index and the Committee, therefore, feels that these are the most appropriate indices to represent the Companys relative performance.
Total shareholder return versus Total shareholder return versus FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure Index FTSE 250 Index Source: Thomson Financial Source: Thomson Financial 250 250 200 200 150 150 100 100 50 50 0 0 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 National Express Group FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure Index National Express Group FTSE 250 Index Graph 1 looks at the value, by the end of 2006, of 100 invested in National Express Graph 2 looks at the value, by the end of 2006, of 100 invested in National Express Group on 31 December 2001 compared with 100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Travel Group on 31 December 2001 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE & Leisure Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS, NOTICE PERIODS AND TERMINATION PAYMENTS Executive Directors The contract dates and notice periods for the Executive Directors are as follows: Director Contract date Notice period from the Company Notice period from the Director Richard Bowker 22 May 2006 12 months 12 months Ray OToole 11 September 2003 To 1 September 2006 12 months.
6 months From 1 September 2006 24 months reducing on a daily basis to 12 months by 1 September 2007 Adam Walker 11 September 2003 12 months 6 months Former Director Phil White 21 May 2003 12 months 6 months It is the Committees general policy for the notice periods of Executive Directors to be no longer than 12 months.
However, the Committee approved a notice period of 24 months for Ray OToole on the appointment of a new Chief Executive to try to ensure continuity of management during this time of change.
The notice period reduces on a daily basis between 1 September 2006 and 31 August 2007 such that on 1 September 2007 the notice period will be 12 months.
The service contracts of Richard Bowker and Adam Walker contain a provision, exercisable at the option of the Company, to pay an amount on early termination of employment equal to one years salary.
In the case of Ray OToole the early termination payment will fall from two years as at 1 September 2006 to one years salary by 1 September 2007.
The Company will use the payment in lieu of notice provisions when the speed, certainty and protection of restrictive covenants afforded by such clauses are thought to be in the best interests of the Company and the circumstances surrounding the departure of the relevant Director justify their use.
The service contracts of Ray OToole and Adam Walker have a further provision that, where the Company initiates a termination, other than for cause, within six months of a change of control taking place the Company will exercise its option to make a payment in lieu of notice of an amount equal to the salary and benefits that the Director would have received during the notice period.
In any event the Committees policy is that payments to Directors on termination should reflect the circumstances that prevail at the time, also taking account of the Directors duty to mitigate if appropriate.
Non Executive Directors The Non Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company but are appointed for fixed three-year terms.
All Directors are required to stand at least once every three years for reappointment by shareholders.
41 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 Value Value SUMMARY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS Performance Benets related in lieu Total Total 1 2 2 Salary fees bonus Benets of pension 2006 2005 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Richard Bowker appointed 12 September 2006 154 154 13 38 359 Ray OToole 360 360 25 119 864 528 AdamWalker 320 320 23 663 489 Non Executive Directors 3 David Ross Chairman 160 160 150 Jorge Cosmen 40 40 3 Sir Andrew Foster 40 40 35 Barry Gibson 50 50 41 Sue Lyons 45 45 40 Tim Score 45 45 34 Former Executive Director 4 Phil White resigned 11 September 2006 349 349 30 51 778 1,010 1 Benefits in kind include a company car, fuel and health insurance.
2 Total remuneration excludes Company pension contributions which are shown below.
3 David Ross has elected to take his Chairmans fees as National Express Group shares.
4 This represents Phil Whites total 2006 bonus of 500,000 pro rated for his period as a Director.
FORMER DIRECTOR Phil White stepped down as Chief Executive of the Company on 11 September 2006.
He will remain in full time employment with the Group until 31 March 2007.
He will continue to receive his usual salary and benefits in accordance with the terms of his contract until this date.
On 31 March 2007 Phil White will receive, in accordance with his contractual entitlements, the title to his car value 74,000 and any accrued but unused holiday entitlement.
From 1 April 2007 to 30 September 2007 Phil White will act as a consultant for the Group for which he will receive a monthly fee of 25,000.
During this period he will, in particular, be assisting the Company in connection with a piece of ongoing litigation in New South Wales, Australia.
On retirement Phil White is entitled to exercise share options granted to him under the 2002 Executive Share Option Plan subject to the fulfilment of the applicable performance conditions.
In addition unvested awards held by Phil White under the Long Term Incentive Plan the Plan shall vest subject to the fulfilment of the applicable performance conditions in accordance with the rules of the Plan.
PENSIONS Pension benefits earned by Directors in the year to 31 December 2006 from both the approved and unapproved plans were: Movement in transfer Employer Increase Transfer value during contribution Accrued in period value of Accrued Transfer Transfer period less to defined benefit at net of increase benefit at value at value at Directors contribution 1 Jan 2006 indexation in period 31 Dec 2006 1 Jan 2006 31 Dec 2006 contributions plan Age NRA 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Ray OToole 51 60 28.5 4.5 61.6 33.8 351.8 461.5 105.6 Adam Walker 39 60 24.8 8.2 65.3 33.7 179.3 266.8 69.3 Former Executive Director Phil White resigned 11 September 2006 57 62 123.4 Normal Retirement Age.
Ray OToole ceased to accrue pension benefits on 7 April 2006.
Employer contribution shown is for the period 1 January 2006 to 11 September 2006 when Phil White resigned as a Director.
42 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS Directors interests and transactions The beneficial and non beneficial interests of the Directors in office as at 31 December 2006 are shown below: At Change from 1 January 31 December At 2006 or on 2006 to 31 December appointment 26 February 2006 if later 2007 Executive Directors Richard Bowker 2,554 Ray OToole 24,364 19,236 Adam Walker 19,400 9,700 Non Executive Directors Jorge Cosmen 23,017,253 18,506,130 Sir Andrew Foster Barry Gibson 3,000 3,000 Sue Lyons 2,072 2,072 David Ross 2,000,000 634,926 2,001,555 Tim Score Former Executive Director Phil White resigned 11 September 2006 165,408 165,408 For Phil White as at date of resignation.
In addition to their individual interests in shares the Executive Directors were, for Companies Act purposes, regarded as interested in the 319,574 shares held at 26 February 2007 by the National Express Group Employee Benefit Trust in respect of the Long Term Incentive Plan.
In order to align the interests of the Directors more closely with the shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has also determined that the Executive Directors should build up a share fund equal to at least one years salary over a period of five years.
ii Options granted under the 2002 National Express Group Executive Share Option Plan Part 2 Unapproved.
iii Options granted under the National Express Group Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
iv The performance condition is as follows: a for awards up to 50% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 4% p. a. b for awards between 51% of salary and up to 100% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 6% p. a. c for awards between 101% of salary and up to 150% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 8% p. a. d for awards between 151% of salary and up to 200% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 10% p. a.
Parts a and b are initially tested over years 03 with a facility to retest over years 04 and 05.
Parts c and d are not subject to retesting.
Straight line vesting occurs between EPS levels.
v The performance condition is as follows: a for awards up to 50% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 4% p. a. b for awards between 51% of salary and up to 100% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 5% p. a. c for awards between 101% of salary and up to 150% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 6% p. a. d for awards between 151% of salary and up to 200% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 10% p. a.
Performance is tested over years 0-3.
43 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP AWARDS Performance shares of 1 x salary are awarded to Executive Directors as nil cost options under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
In addition 100 matching shares are awarded for every 30 investment shares pledged or invested by the Director under the share matching element of the LTIP.
Further details of the LTIP and the applicable performance conditions are shown on page 40.
Note: For the purposes of the EPS performance conditions, CPI has been calculated to have increased by 3% during the year ended 31 December 2006.
44 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS OF NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC We have examined the groups summary financial statement for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise Summary Group Income Statement, Summary Group Balance Sheet, Summary Group Statement of Cash Flows, Summary Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the Segmental Analysis.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
To the fullest extent required by the law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements with the full annual accounts, Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
BASIS OF OPINION We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
OPINION In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the full Annual Report, Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report of National Express Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and regulations made thereunder.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London 1 March 2007 45 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 GROUP INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006 Total before Total before goodwill Goodwill goodwill Goodwill impairment, impairment, impairment, impairment, intangible intangible intangible intangible amortisation amortisation amortisation amortisation and and and and exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional items items Total items items Total 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 2,525.5 2,525.5 2,216.0 2,216.0 Operating costs before goodwill impairment, intangible amortisation and exceptional items 2,340.7 2,340.7 2,060.5 2,060.5 Goodwill impairment 20.2 20.2 33.3 33.3 Intangible amortisation 27.8 27.8 4.9 4.9 Exceptional items 4.8 4.8 7.8 7.8 Total operating costs 2,340.7 43.2 2,383.9 2,060.5 46.0 2,106.5 Group operating profit 184.8 43.2 141.6 155.5 46.0 109.5 Profit on disposal of non-current assets 16.9 16.9 Profit from operations 184.8 26.3 158.5 155.5 46.0 109.5 Share of post tax results from associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method 3.8 25.7 29.5 8.8 8.8 Finance income 12.4 12.4 10.8 10.8 Finance costs 37.3 37.3 22.2 22.2 Profit before tax 156.1 52.0 104.1 135.3 46.0 89.3 Tax expense 39.2 15.6 23.6 29.5 2.0 27.5 Profit after tax for the year from continuing operations 116.9 36.4 80.5 105.8 44.0 61.8 Loss profit for the year from discontinued operations 3.2 3.2 3.8 68.3 64.5 Profit loss for the year 116.9 39.6 77.3 109.6 112.3 2.7 Profit loss attributable to equity shareholders 116.1 39.6 76.5 109.5 112.3 2.8 Profit attributable to minority interests 0.8 0.8 0.1 0.1 116.9 39.6 77.3 109.6 112.3 2.7 Earnings loss per share: basic earnings loss per share 50.7p 2.0p diluted earnings loss per share 50.4p 2.0p Normalised earnings per share: basic earnings per share 77.0p 77.4p diluted earnings per share 76.5p 76.3p Earnings per share from continuing operations: basic earnings per share 52.8p 45.2p diluted earnings per share 52.5p 44.5p Dividends per ordinary share: interim 10.75p 10.00p final 24.00p 22.25p 34.75p 32.25p Dividends of 50.1m were paid during the year 2005: 41.6m.
Dividends of 52.5m were proposed for approval during the year 2005: 47.0m.
46 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 GROUP BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 2006 2006 2005 m m Non-current assets Intangible assets 697.6 766.3 Property, plant and equipment 501.9 514.4 Financial assets Available for sale 13.5 11.4 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.6 Investments accounted for using the equity method 8.7 4.8 Other receivables 4.1 26.2 Deferred tax asset 10.6 23.0 1,236.7 1,346.7 Current assets Inventories 15.5 18.7 Trade and other receivables 272.3 301.8 Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 8.1 6.7 Current tax assets 26.4 11.3 Cash and cash equivalents 143.6 145.5 465.9 484.0 Disposal group assets classified as held for sale 20.1 Total assets 1,722.7 1,830.7 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities Borrowings 538.4 495.5 Derivative financial instruments 8.3 8.3 Deferred tax liability 84.3 81.9 Other non-current liabilities 3.0 6.1 Defined benefit pension liability 52.8 88.8 Provisions 61.3 41.3 748.1 721.9 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 518.4 532.4 Financial liabilities Borrowings 43.6 214.4 Derivative financial instruments 6.4 13.4 Current tax liabilities 40.9 24.0 Provisions 17.4 12.3 626.7 796.5 Liabilities directly associated with disposal group assets classified as held for sale 2.4 Total liabilities 1,377.2 1,518.4 Net assets 345.5 312.3 Shareholders equity Called up share capital 7.7 7.5 Share premium account 189.8 174.2 Capital redemption reserve 0.2 0.2 Own shares 16.7 5.1 Other reserves 7.9 24.5 Retained earnings 153.3 108.1 Total shareholders equity 342.2 309.4 Minority interest in equity 3.3 2.9 Total equity 345.5 312.3 Adjusted for Alsa fair value movements as required by IFRS 3.
S R Bowker CBE Chief Executive A C Walker Finance Director 1 March 2007 47 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 GROUP STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006 2006 2005 m m Cash generated from operations 254.5 181.1 Tax paid 9.0 26.7 Net cash from operating activities 245.5 154.4 Cash flows from investing activities Payments to acquire businesses, net of cash acquired 19.8 218.8 Deferred consideration for businesses acquired 3.0 0.3 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 73.5 61.7 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 24.3 8.1 Payments to acquire investments 4.6 Payments to acquire associates 1.5 Receipts from disposal of investments 13.2 Receipts from disposal of businesses, net of cash disposed 71.3 Receipts from disposal of intangible assets 1.5 Interest received 12.4 10.8 Receipts from sale of shares for employee schemes 3.5 Net cash used in investing activities 51.0 187.1 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 15.8 4.9 Purchase of treasury shares 11.6 3.5 Share buy back 25.8 Interest paid 32.1 32.6 Finance lease principal payments 21.5 20.0 Repayment of loan notes 6.7 Net loans repaid advanced 89.9 148.1 Loans receivable repaid 1.0 Dividends paid 49.7 41.6 Net cash used in from financing activities 188.0 22.8 Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 6.5 9.9 Opening cash and cash equivalents 140.0 147.2 Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 6.5 9.9 Foreign exchange 2.9 2.7 Closing cash and cash equivalents 143.6 140.0 48 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 GROUP STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006 2006 2005 m m Income and expense recognised directly in equity Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations 55.3 50.3 Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign currency borrowings 46.8 45.5 Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit pension plans 20.6 32.0 Loss gain on cash flow hedges taken to equity 12.1 14.5 12.7 Transfers to the income statement Exchange differences on disposal of foreign operations 1.5 On cash flow hedges 1.6 9.4 1.6 7.9 Tax on exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations 1.3 7.1 Tax on share based payments 2.4 1.4 Deferred tax on actuarial gains losses 6.2 9.0 Deferred tax on cash flow hedges 3.7 1.4 Tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity 1.4 16.1 Net losses recognised directly in equity 0.2 4.5 Profit loss for the financial year 76.5 2.8 Profit attributable to minority interests 0.8 0.1 Total recognised income expense for the year 77.5 7.2 Income expense attributable to equity shareholders 76.7 7.3 Income attributable to minority interests 0.8 0.1 77.5 7.2 Effects of changes in accounting policy: Equity shareholders: Net loss on hedges on first-time adoption of IAS 39 18.4 Tax recognised on hedges on first-time adoption of IAS 39 5.6 12.8 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS Analysis by class and geography of business Operating Operating Revenue result Revenue result 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m UK Bus 300.8 40.7 268.6 41.5 UK Trains 1,497.6 49.1 1,497.2 64.2 UK Coach 207.3 23.7 200.5 21.5 Inter-segment sales elimination 13.2 10.3 UK operations 1,992.5 113.5 1,956.0 127.2 North American Bus 283.7 39.1 241.8 35.0 European Coach & Bus Alsa 249.3 44.3 18.2 2.6 Central functions 12.1 9.3 Result from continuing operations 2,525.5 184.8 2,216.0 155.5 Goodwill impairment 20.2 33.3 Intangible asset amortisation 27.8 4.9 Exceptional items 4.8 7.8 Group operating profit 141.6 109.5 Profit on disposal of non-current assets 16.9 Profit from operations 158.5 109.5 Share of post tax results from associates and joint ventures 29.5 8.8 Net finance costs 24.9 11.4 Profit before tax 104.1 89.3 Tax expense 23.6 27.5 Profit for the year from continuing operations 80.5 61.8 Loss from discontinued operations 3.2 64.5 Profit loss for the year 77.3 2.7 Intercompany sales only occur between the Groups UK Divisions.
49 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS ANALYSIS OF ORDINARY SHAREHOLDINGS AT 26 FEBRUARY 2007 By registering for electronic communications you can help us to conserve Per cent of Number Per cent of environmental resources by reducing print, paper and postage costs.
Number total number of shares ordinary of accounts of accounts 000 capital Log on to www.
co. uk if you would like to: By size of holding register your e-mail so that future shareholder information, including the 1500 7,883 56 1,413 1 annual report and accounts, are sent to you electronically: 5011,000 2,017 14 1,531 1 check the balance of your shareholding: 1,0015,000 2,995 21 6,739 4 5,00150,000 1,162 8 12,779 8 set up a dividend mandate online: 50,0011,000,000 193 1 46,994 31 change your registered postal address or your dividend mandate Over 1,000,000 31 84,385 55 details: or 14,281 100 153,841 100 submit your vote on line prior to a general meeting.
To sign up for the first time you should click on Register and follow the Per cent of Number Per cent of simple instructions you will need your shareholder reference number from Number total number of shares ordinary of accounts of accounts 000 capital your share certificate or dividend voucher or any other correspondence sent to you by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
By investor type Individuals 12,950 11 16,823 11 DIVIDENDS PAID DIRECT TO YOUR BANK ACCOUNT Institutional investors 1,206 78 119,433 78 Having dividends paid direct to your bank account has the following Other corporate investors 125 11 17,585 11 advantages: 14,281 100 153,841 100 avoids the risk of cheques being lost in the post: saves you time in presenting the cheque for payment: DIVIDENDS AND FINANCIAL CALENDAR the dividend is credited to your account on the payment date.
Final dividend ex dividend date 25 April 2007 The tax voucher is sent to your registered address at the same time as the Final dividend record date 27 April 2007 dividend is credited to your account.
To set up a new dividend mandate Annual General Meeting 1 May 2007 please log on to www.
co. uk or contact the Registrar at: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Final dividend payment date 4 May 2007 Shareholder helpline number: 0870 601 5366.
Interim results announced July 2007 COMPANY WEBSITE Interim dividend ex dividend date September 2007 The Company website at www.
com has information Interim dividend record date September 2007 about the Group, press releases, share price data and copies of the interim and annual report and accounts.
Interim dividend payment date September 2007 SHARE DEALING SERVICE A telephone and internet share dealing service, which provides a simple way to buy and sell shares, has been arranged through Lloyds TSB Registrars.
For further information log on to www.
co. uk dealing or telephone 0870 850 0852.
SHAREGIFT ShareGift is an independent charity share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity number 1052686.
Those shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the value of which make it uneconomic to sell them, can donate the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide range of charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be obtained from its website at www.
org and a ShareGift transfer form can be downloaded from www.
UNCLAIMED ASSETS REGISTER The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register UAR which provides a search facility for shareholdings and other financial assets that may have been forgotten.
For further information contact UAR, Bain House, 16 Connaught Place, London W1J 5JA.
50 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 CORPORATE INFORMATION Secretary and registered office A J McDonald National Express Group PLC 75 Davies Street London W1K 5HT Tel: 44 0 20 7529 2000 Fax: 44 0 20 7529 2100 e-mail: info@natex.
com REGISTERED NUMBER 2590560 REGISTRAR Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Shareholder helpline: 0870 601 5366 FINANCIAL ADVISORS Merrill Lynch International Limited Merrill Lynch Financial Centre 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ STOCKBROKERS Merrill Lynch International Limited Merrill Lynch Financial Centre 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ Morgan Stanley 20 and 25 Cabot Square Canary Wharf London E14 4QW CORPORATE SOLICITORS Ashurst Broadwalk House 5 Appold Street London EC2A 2HA AUDITORS Ernst & Young LLP 1 More London Place London SE1 2AF PRINCIPAL BANKERS HSBC Bank plc 8 Canada Square London E14 5HQ Royal Bank of Scotland 135 Bishopsgate London EC2M 3UR 51 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT INFORMATION SUMMARY REPORTS The Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement is a summary of information contained in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The aim is to provide shareholders with information in a clear and concise manner.
For this reason, the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement do not contain all the information to allow for a full understanding of the results of the Company and the Group and their state of affairs.
For further information the full Annual Report and Accounts, containing the Operating and Financial Review, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Report, the Directors Remuneration Report, the financial statements and the independent Auditors Report, which is unqualified, should be consulted.
A copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts may be obtained, free of charge, by writing to the Company Secretary, National Express Group PLC, 75 Davies Street, London W1K 5HT.
They are also available on the Groups website at www.
If you wish to receive the full Annual Report and Accounts in future years you should write to Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address on page 51.
52 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 CONTENTS 1 OUR BUSINESS 2 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 4 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 6 CUSTOMER SERVICE PUTTING OUR CUSTOMERS AT THE HEART OF WHAT WE DO 10 LEADING THE WAY TAKING THE INITIATIVE 12 KNOWING OUR STAKEHOLDERS UNDERSTANDING OUR CONTRIBUTION 16 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE GETTING THE DETAIL RIGHT 20 TAKING RESPONSIBILITY CARING ABOUT WHAT WE DO 22 OPERATING PERFORMANCE 24 OPERATING REVIEW COACHES UK BUSES UK TRAINS UK NORTH AMERICA ALSA SPAIN 29 SUMMARY FINANCIAL REVIEW 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ITS ABOUT WHAT WE DO AND HOW WE DO IT 34 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY 36 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT 37 SUMMARY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 39 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 45 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS OF NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC 46 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT GROUP INCOME STATEMENT GROUP BALANCE SHEET GROUP STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS GROUP STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement is 50 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION printed on Revive 50:50 Gloss, the paper is produced from 50% recovered waste and 50% virgin fibre.
Both the paper mill and printer involved in the production support the growth of responsible forest management and are both accredited to ISO14001 which specifies a process for continuous environmental improvement and both are FSC certified.
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
This annual report is available at www.
com nx ic reports Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London Printed by CTD NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC 53 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2006 MAKING National Express Group PLC 75 Davies Street TRAVEL London W1K 5HT Tel: 44 0 20 7529 2000 Fax: 44 0 20 7529 2100 e-mail: info@natex.
