Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Company Accounting Policies 73 National Grid Gas Company Accounting Policies a Basis of preparation of Company financial statements No depreciation is provided on freehold land and assets in These Company financial statements have been prepared in the course of construction.
Other tangible fixed assets are accordance with applicable UK accounting and financial reporting depreciated principally on a straight-line basis, at rates estimated standards and the Companies Act 1985. to write off their book values over their estimated useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic lives, which are The Company financial statements have been prepared on a reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is given to any historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial contractual arrangements and operational requirements relating instruments from 1 April 2005 onwards.
Unless otherwise determined by operational These Company financial statements are presented in requirements, the depreciation periods for the principal categories pounds sterling.
of tangible fixed assets are, in general, as shown below: Years The Company has not presented its own profit and loss Freehold and leasehold properties up to 50 account as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act Plant and machinery: 1985.
The Company has taken exemption from preparing a Mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 revised 1996 Meters 10 to 18 Cash Flow Statements.
Motor vehicles and office equipment up to 10 The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported c Impairment of fixed assets amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets Impairments of fixed assets are calculated as the difference and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses between the carrying values of the net assets of income during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from generating units, including where appropriate, investments, these estimates.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of net realisable value or estimated value in use at The Company has adopted FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, the date the impairment review is undertaken.
Net realisable value FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, FRS 23 The represents the amount that can be generated through the sale Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, FRS 25 Financial of assets.
Value in use represents the present value of expected Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial future cash flows discounted on a pre-tax basis, using the Instruments: Measurement.
The Company has also adopted estimated cost of capital of the income generating unit.
FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which replaces the disclosure requirements of FRS 25.
The impact of the adoption Impairment reviews are carried out if there is some indication that of these standards is shown in note 1. impairment may have occurred, or where otherwise required to ensure that fixed assets are not carried above their estimated b Tangible fixed assets recoverable amounts.
Impairments are recognised in the profit and Tangible fixed assets are included in the balance sheet at their loss account, and where material are disclosed as exceptional.
Costs include payroll costs Impairment reversals are recognised when, in managements and finance costs incurred which are directly attributable to the opinion, the reversal is permanent.
construction of tangible fixed assets.
Tangible fixed assets include assets in which the Companys interest comprises legally protected statutory or contractual rights of use.
Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, extensions to, or significant increases in, the capacity of tangible fixed assets.
Contributions received towards the cost of tangible fixed assets are included in creditors as deferred income and credited on a straight-line basis to the profit and loss account over the life of the assets.
74 Company Accounting Policies Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas d Replacement expenditure j Pensions Replacement expenditure represents the cost of planned The substantial majority of the Companys employees are maintenance of mains and services assets by replacing or lining members of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme.
This expenditure is principally undertaken to Company recognises pension costs in its profit and loss account repair and maintain the safety of the network and is written off as they are charged to the Company by Lattice.
The charge from as incurred.
Expenditure that enhances the performance of Lattice comprises the regular pension cost of the Companys mains and services assets is treated as an addition to tangible employees and variations from the regular pension cost in respect fixed assets.
of the effect of any surplus or deficit attributable to the Company.
The interest element of any surplus or deficit attributable to the e Fixed asset investments Company is included within the profit and loss account as a Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any financing charge.
Impairments are calculated such that the carrying value of the fixed asset investment is the lower of its k Leases cost or recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher Operating lease payments are charged to the profit and loss of its net realisable value and its value in use.
account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
f Deferred taxation l Financial instruments Deferred taxation is provided in full on all material timing Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified differences, with certain exceptions.
No provision for deferred according to the substance of the contractual arrangements taxation is made for any timing differences on non-monetary entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences assets arising from fair value adjustments, except where there a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all is a binding agreement to sell the assets concerned.
However, of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds received, net of no provision is made where it is more likely than not that any direct issue costs.
taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets.
Trade debtors do not carry any interest and are stated at Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for are considered recoverable.
Trade creditors are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Deferred tax balances have not been discounted.
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the g Stocks proceeds received, net of direct issue costs plus accrued interest Stocks are stated at cost less provision for deterioration and less any repayments.
Prior to 1 April 2005, accrued interest is obsolescence.
presented as part of current liabilities and not combined with the h Environmental costs principal amounts payable.
Environmental costs, based on discounted future estimated Finance charges are recognised in the profit and loss account in expenditures expected to be incurred, are provided for in full.
the period in which they are incurred.
The unwinding of the discount is included within the profit and loss account as a financing charge.
Derivative financial instruments are recorded as described below.
i Turnover m Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments Turnover primarily represents the amounts derived from the The Company enters into derivative financial instruments transportation of natural gas and the provision of related services.
derivatives in order to manage its interest rate and foreign Turnover includes an assessment of transportation services currency exposures.
The principal derivatives used include supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, currency swaps, and the year end, excludes inter-business and inter-company forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaptions.
transactions and is stated net of value added tax.
Where revenues received or receivable exceed the maximum amount permitted by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be made to future prices to reflect this over-recovery, no liability is recognised.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Company Accounting Policies 75 National Grid Gas National Grid Gas All derivative transactions are undertaken, or maintained, with a If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net view to providing a commercial hedge of the interest or currency cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the risks associated with the Companys underlying business profit and loss account immediately.
activities and the financing of those activities.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host With effect from 1 April 2005, derivatives are carried in the contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and balance sheet at their fair value.
characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised Prior to 1 April 2005, derivatives used for hedging purposes gains or losses reported in the profit and loss account.
were not recorded on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies were The notional amounts relating to financial instruments held to retranslated at hedged rates instead of closing rates.
manage interest rate risk through interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements, and currency profiles through foreign currency As permitted by the transition provisions of FRS 26, prior year contracts and cross currency swaps at 31 March 2006 amounted adjustments have not been made to the balance sheet as at to 2,043m and 1,296m respectively.
31 March 2005 or the profit and loss account for the year then ended.
n Restructuring costs Costs arising from the Companys restructuring programmes From 1 April 2005, the accounting policy for hedge accounting primarily relate to redundancy costs.
Redundancy costs are is as described below.
Disclosures on the impact of implementing charged to the profit and loss account in the period in which FRS 26 at 1 April 2005 are set out in note 1. the Company becomes irrevocably committed to incurring the Changes in the carrying value of financial instruments that are costs and the main features of the restructuring plan have been designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows cash announced to affected employees.
flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective o Share-based payments portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Equity-settled share-based payments are made to employees Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges are of the Company.
These are measured at fair value at date of subsequently recognised in the profit and loss account in the grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of equity-settled same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over Changes in the carrying value of financial instruments that are the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of shares designated as hedges of the changes in the fair value of assets that will eventually vest.
or liabilities fair value hedges are recognised in the profit and p Emission allowances loss account.
An equal and opposite amount is recorded as an Emission allowances initially are recorded within debtors at adjustment to the carrying value of hedged items, with a deemed cost.
For allocations of allowances granted to the corresponding entry in the profit and loss account, to the extent Company by the UK Government, cost is measured as fair that the change is attributable to the risk being hedged and that value at the date of allocation.
Receipts of such grants are the fair value hedge is effective.
treated as deferred income and are recognised in the profit Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for and loss account over the period to which they relate.
A provision hedge accounting are recognised in the profit and loss account is recorded in respect of the Companys obligation to deliver as they arise.
emission allowances and charges recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which carbon dioxide emissions Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument are made.
expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gains or losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently recognised in the profit and loss account in the same periods in which the previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment recorded to its carrying value, at the date hedge accounting is discontinued, is amortised to the profit and loss account using the effective interest method.
