34 Group Accounting Policies Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas Group Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 March 2006 a Basis of preparation of Group financial statements ii IFRS 3 Business combinations has not been applied These Group financial statements have been prepared in to business combinations that occurred before the date accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of transition.
IFRS and Interpretations adopted by the European Union.
Other choices made on the adoption of IFRS: They are prepared on the basis of all IFRSs and Interpretations i At the date of transition, the vast majority of assets were that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March 2006 and in valued at depreciated cost, as adjusted for IFRS measurement accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Article 4 changes, with some assets being measured at deemed cost.
The 2005 comparative financial information has also been prepared on this basis, with the exception of ii For Share-based payments, all active grants were recognised certain standards, details of which are given below, for which retrospectively.
See Group Accounting Policies q Sharecomparative information has not been restated.
In respect of the comparative financial information disclosed, New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations IFRS 1 requires that estimates made under IFRS must be adopted in 2005 06 consistent with estimates made for the same date under UK In preparing these financial statements, the Group has complied GAAP except where adjustments are required to reflect any with all IFRSs applicable for periods beginning on or after differences in accounting policies.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on an In addition, the Group has adopted the following amendments historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial to standards: instruments from 1 April 2005 onwards.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements These Group financial statements are presented in pounds sterling.
The amendment requires new disclosures about entities The preparation of financial statements requires management management of their capital resources and compliance with to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported capital requirements.
amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Actuarial Gains and assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures.
and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
The amendment allows entities which are members of a group defined benefit pension scheme, such as National Grid Gas, IFRS transitional arrangements to account for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution The Groups transition date to IFRS is 1 April 2004.
The rules scheme and not recognise a share of the assets and liabilities for first-time adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS 1 First-time or actuarial gains and losses in respect of the scheme.
adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
In preparing the Groups first IFRS financial statements, these Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition transition rules have been applied to the amounts reported and Measurement: Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast previously under generally accepted accounting principles in Intragroup Transactions the United Kingdom UK GAAP.
IFRS 1 generally requires full In consolidated financial statements, the amendment allows retrospective application of the Standards and Interpretations in the foreign currency risk of a highly probable forecast intragroup force at the first reporting date.
However, IFRS 1 allows certain transaction to qualify as a hedged item provided that the exemptions in the application of particular Standards to prior transaction is denominated in a currency other than the functional periods in order to assist companies with the transition process.
currency of the entity entering into that transaction and the National Grid Gas has applied the following exemptions: foreign currency risk will affect consolidated profit or loss.
i The Group has elected to adopt International Accounting IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Standard IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and This replaces the disclosure requirements in IAS 32 Financial Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure and locates in one and Measurement with effect from 1 April 2005, with no place all disclosures relating to financial instruments.
The new restatement of comparative information for the year to requirements incorporate many of IAS 32s disclosures as well as 31 March 2005.
Accounting policy notes n and o explain additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures on the risks the basis of accounting for financial instruments pre and post arising from financial instruments.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Group Accounting Policies 35 National Grid Gas New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets and not yet adopted liabilities are included in the income statement.
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups provides guidance on determining whether arrangements which overseas financing operations are translated at exchange rates convey the right to use an asset in return for a series of payments prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items should be accounted for in accordance IAS 17 Leases.
are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the Implementation of this Interpretation is not expected to have a period.
Exchange differences arising are classified as equity and material impact on the Groups results or assets and liabilities.
transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 addresses the issue of whether IFRS 2 d Intangible assets other than goodwill Share Based Payment applies to transactions in which the entity Identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill are recorded cannot identify specifically some or all of the goods or services at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provision for received.
Implementation of this Interpretation is not expected impairment.
to have a material impact on the Groups results or assets and liabilities.
Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, are recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified: it is IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives prohibits probable that the asset created will generate future economic reassessment of the treatment of embedded derivatives benefits: and that the development cost of the asset can be subsequent to initial recognition unless there is a change measured reliably.
Where no internally generated intangible asset in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash can be recognised, development expenditure is recorded as an flows that otherwise would be required under the contract, in expense in the period in which it is incurred.
which case reassessment is required.
Implementation of this Interpretation is not expected to have a material impact on Intangible assets other than goodwill are amortised on a straightthe Groups results or assets.
line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
Amortisation periods for the principal categories of intangible assets are: b Basis of consolidation Amortisation periods for categories of intangibles Years The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements Software 3 to 5 of the Company and its subsidiaries Group undertakings.
A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
e Property, plant and equipment Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost, less the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
the benefits from its activities.
Cost includes payroll and finance costs incurred which are directly Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting attributable to the construction of property, plant and equipment.
policies used under relevant local GAAP in the individual financial statements of the Company and subsidiaries into line with those Property, plant and equipment includes assets in which the used by the Group under IFRS.
Groups interest comprises legally protected statutory or contractual rights of use.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Group income statement from the effective date Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
including capital expenditure for safety and environmental assets, and extensions to, enhancements to, or replacement of existing c Foreign currencies assets.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the Group undertaking concerned, are recorded at the rates of Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each equipment are included in creditors as deferred income and balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are credited on a straight-line basis to the income statement over the denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing estimated economic useful lives of the assets to which they relate.
Other non-monetary assets are not retranslated No depreciation is provided on freehold land and assets in the unless they are carried at fair value.
As set out in note o below, as permitted by IFRS 1, prior to 1 April 2005 the Group adopted UK GAAP for hedge accounting and, consequently, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were translated at hedged rates instead of closing exchange rates.
36 Group Accounting Policies Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated, principally Deferred tax on a straight-line basis, at rates estimated to write off their book Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method values over their estimated useful economic lives.
In assessing and is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying estimated useful economic lives, which are reviewed on a regular amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the basis, consideration is given to any contractual arrangements and corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
operational requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable otherwise determined by operational requirements, the temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised depreciation periods for the principal categories of property, plant to the extent that is probable that taxable profits will be available and equipment are, in general, as shown below.
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Depreciation periods for category of assets Years Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary Plant and machinery difference arises from the initial recognition other than a business mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 combination of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects meters 10 to 18 neither the accounting profits nor the taxable profits.
Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on taxable temporary Motor vehicles and office equipment up to 10 differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary f Impairment of assets difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between reverse in the foreseeable future.
the carrying value of the asset and its recoverable amount, if lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which that realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been asset belongs.
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to costs to sell and estimated value in use at the date the equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Value in use represents the present value of expected future cash balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer flows, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all current market assessments of the time value of money and the or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each flows have not been adjusted.
balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that is has Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally Impairments are recognised in the income statement and, where enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against material, are disclosed separately.
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its g Taxation current tax asset and liabilities on a net basis.
Current tax Current tax asset and liabilities for the current and prior periods h Discontinued operations and non-current assets held are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or for sale paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used Cash flows and operations that relate to a major component of to compute the amount are those that are enacted or the business, or geographical area of operations, that have been substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
sold or are classified as held for sale are shown separately from the continuing operations of the Group.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged on assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Group Accounting Policies 37 National Grid Gas Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for m Leases sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale Rentals under operating leases are charged to income on a transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the Assets held under finance leases are recognised at their fair value asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments on present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, inception, and depreciated over their useful economic lives.
The which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a corresponding liability is recognised as a finance lease obligation completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Rental payments are apportioned between i Inventories finance costs and reduction in the finance lease obligation, Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable so as to achieve a constant rate of interest.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, n Financial instruments direct labour costs as well as those overheads that have been Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location according to the substance of the contractual arrangements and condition.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences j Environmental costs a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of Provision is made for environmental costs, based on future its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds received, net of estimated expenditures, discounted to present values.
Changes in the provision arising from revised estimates or Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and discount rates or changes in the expected timing of expenditures subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate are recognised in the income statement.
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective The unwinding of the discount is included within the income evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts statement as a financing charge.
due under the original payment terms.
Indications that the trade k Revenues receivable may become irrecoverable would include financial Revenues primarily represent the sales value derived from the difficulties of the debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, and transmission and distribution of gas together with the sales default or significant failure of payment.
value derived from the provision of gas metering services to Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised customers during the year and exclude value added tax and cost using the effective interest rate method.
together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables are Revenues include an assessment of transportation services derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income statement.
supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading Other financial investments are initially measured at cost including and the year end.
transaction costs, but with effect from 1 April 2005 are Where revenues received or receivable exceed the maximum subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of amount permitted by regulatory agreement and adjustments will investments classified at fair value through profit and loss are be made to future prices to reflect this over-recovery, no liability is included in the income statement, while changes in the fair value recognised.
Similarly no asset is recognised where a regulatory of investments classified as available-for-sale are recognised agreement permits adjustments to be made to future prices in directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of or is respect of an under-recovery.
determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or l Pensions and other post-retirement benefits loss for the period.
Investment income on investments classified The substantial majority of the Groups employees are members at fair value through profit and loss and on available-for-sale of the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK Pension investments is recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the scheme to the Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the Group.
Accordingly the Group accounts for the scheme as if it proceeds received, net of direct issue costs plus accrued interest were a defined contribution scheme.
The pension charge for less any repayments, and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
the year represents the contributions payable to the scheme Any difference between the proceeds after direct issue costs and for the period.
the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the life of the borrowing.
Prior to 1 April 2005, accrued interest is The Group does not recognise a share of the assets and liabilities presented as part of current liabilities and not combined with the or the actuarial gains and losses of the Scheme.
38 Group Accounting Policies Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value, Changes in the carrying value of financial instruments that are and are subsequently also measured at fair value.
Changes in the designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows cash fair value of derivative financial instruments are included in the flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective income statement to the extent hedge accounting is not applied.
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges are Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial subsequently recognised in the income statement in the same instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Where markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices an asset or a liability results from a forecasted transaction or firm for issued liabilities.
When independent prices are not available, commitment being hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are fair values are determined by using valuation techniques which included in the initial measurement of that non-monetary asset refer to observable market data.
These include comparison with or liability.
similar instruments where market observable prices exist, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other Changes in the carrying value of financial instruments that are valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
designated as hedges of the changes in the fair value of assets or liabilities fair value hedges are recognised in the income Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or statement.
An equal and opposite amount is recorded as an redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an adjustment to the carrying value of hedged items, with a accruals basis using the effective interest rate method.
corresponding entry in the income statement, to the extent that Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, the change is attributable to the risk being hedged and that the construction or production of qualifying assets being assets that fair value hedge is effective.
necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their Exchange gains or losses arising on financial instruments that are intended use or sale are added to their cost.
Such additions designated and effective as hedges of the Groups net investment cease when the assets are substantially ready for their intended in overseas operations net investment hedges are recorded use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the directly in equity, with any ineffective portion recognised income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
immediately in the income statement.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as commits to purchase or sell the assets.
Regular way transactions they arise.
require delivery of assets within the time frame generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies o Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gains or The Group enters into both derivative financial instruments losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in equity are derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments in order to initially retained in equity and subsequently recognised in the manage its interest rate and foreign currency exposures and income statement in the same periods in which the previously commodity price risks in respect of expected energy usage.
The hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For fair value hedges the principal derivatives used include interest rate swaps, forward rate cumulative adjustment recorded to its carrying value at the date agreements, currency swaps, forward foreign currency contracts, hedge accounting is discontinued is amortised to the income and interest rate swaptions.
statement using the effective interest method.
All derivative transactions are undertaken, or maintained, with a If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net view to providing a commercial hedge of the interest, currency or cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the commodity price risks associated with the Groups underlying income statement immediately.
business activities and the financing of those activities.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host With effect from 1 April 2005, derivatives are carried in the contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and balance sheet at their fair value.
characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts From 1 April 2005, the accounting policy for hedge accounting is and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised as described below.
Disclosures on the impact of implementing gains or losses reported in the income statement.
IAS 39 at 1 April 2005 are set out in note 2.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Group Accounting Policies 39 National Grid Gas Prior to 1 April 2005, the Group adopted UK GAAP accounting t Cash and cash equivalents principles for hedge accounting and for derivatives.
Derivatives Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in used for hedging purposes were not recorded on the balance hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments that are sheet as assets or liabilities.
Monetary assets and liabilities in readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an foreign currencies were retranslated at hedged rates instead insignificant change in value.
Exchange gains and losses relating to the u Key sources of estimation uncertainty hedge of the net investment in overseas subsidiaries were The preparation of financial statements requires management to recorded directly in equity.
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported As permitted by the provisions of IFRS 1, the comparative amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets balance sheet and income statement for the year ended and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses 31 March 2005 have not been restated to reflect the adoption during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these of IAS 39 or IAS 32. estimates.
Information about such judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies and or the Notes to the p Restructuring costs Accounts, and the key areas are summarised below.
Costs arising from Group restructuring programmes primarily relate to redundancy costs.
Redundancy costs are charged to Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the the income statement in the year in which the Group becomes amounts recognised in the financial statements: irrevocably committed to incurring the costs and the main The categorisation of certain items as exceptional and the features of the restructuring plan have been announced to definition of adjusted earnings notes 3 and 5. affected employees.
The exemptions adopted under IFRS including, in particular, those relating to business combinations Group accounting q Share-based payments policies a Basis of preparation of Group financial statements.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a charges for other intangible assets and property, plant and straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups equipment Group accounting policies d intangible assets estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
other than goodwill, e Property, plant and equipment and r Exceptional items and remeasurements f Impairment of assets.
Exceptional items are credits or charges relating to non-recurring Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives note 18. transactions that are material, by virtue of their size or nature, Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue and therefore relevant to understanding the Groups financial Group accounting policies k Revenues.
performance and are shown separately to provide a better Recoverability of deferred tax assets Group accounting indication of the underlying results of the Group.
Remeasurements are gains or losses arising from movements in the carrying value of financial instruments, principally derivatives, which provide economic hedges but do not achieve hedge accounting, or are ineffective under IAS 39 and are shown separately to provide a better indication of the underlying results of the Group.
s Emission allowances Emission allowances are recorded as an intangible asset within current assets and are initially recorded at deemed cost.
For allocations of emission allowances granted to the Group by the UK government, cost is measured as fair value at the date of allocation.
Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are recognised in the income statement over the period to which they relate.
A provision is recorded in respect of our obligation to deliver emission allowances and charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
