Accounting Policies Related items a Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements Related items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets and liabilities of National Grid Gas which are These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared in accordance with International not directly attributable to a specific regulatory business, but where there is a reasonable basis for Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and Interpretations adopted by the European Union, and apportioning those revenues, costs, assets or liabilities between the regulatory businesses.
These standard special condition A30 the condition of National Grid Gas plcs DN gas transporter licence items comprise activities in respect of the DNs carried out on a centralised basis and shared services.
issued under the Utilities Act 2000 the licence.
They are prepared on the basis of all IFRSs and Interpretations that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March 2006 and in accordance with These revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are apportioned between regulatory businesses in applicable United Kingdom law and Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
The 2005 comparative financial accordance with the activities giving rise to the income, costs, assets or liabilities.
information has also been prepared on this basis, with the exception of certain standards, details of which are given below, for which comparative information has not been restated.
Unrelated items Unrelated items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity of National Grid Gas In respect of the comparative financial information disclosed, IFRS 1 requires that estimates made which are not directly attributable to a specific regulatory business, and where there is no reasonable under IFRS must be consistent with estimates made for the same date under UK GAAP except where basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity between the regulatory adjustments are required to reflect any differences in accounting policies.
These items mainly comprise corporate activities, financial items, taxation, dividends, share capital and reserves.
These regulatory accounting statements are prepared on an historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments from 1 April 2005 onwards.
These revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity are apportioned between regulatory businesses using the following arbitrary bases: The licence under which these regulatory accounting statements are prepared was issued in May Corporate costs charged to National Grid Gas by National Grid are apportioned between the 2005 and these are the first regulatory accounting statements that fully reflect the requirements of the regulatory businesses using the same metrics as National Grid uses to determine the allocated condition contained in that licence.
The presentation of financial information in these regulatory charge to National Grid Gas.
accounting statements is significantly different to that in the regulatory accounting statements for the The non-current amount owed by National Grid Gas Holdings plc is apportioned between the year ended 31 March 2005.
Comparative information included within these regulatory accounting regulatory businesses in the ratio of their estimated regulatory values.
statements has been restated and presented in accordance with the requirements of the current Net debt at 1 April 2005, which comprises borrowings and bank overdrafts, less cash, cash condition, but has not been audited.
equivalents and financial investments at that date, has been apportioned between regulatory The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires management to make estimates and businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
No amounts were assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets apportioned to the fide-minimis business or to other activities.
The amounts at subsequent period and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual ends are determined by separately adjusting these initially apportioned amounts by the cash results could differ from these estimates.
generated or used by each regulatory business, movements in fair value of net debt allocated to each business and other funding movements.
Other funding movements comprise the Restructuring of the regulatory accounting statements movements arising from the sale of four DNs on 1 June 2005, which were apportioned between In May 2005, National Grid Gas was issued with amended gas transporter licences by Ofgem the regulatory businesses relative to net debt at 1 April 2005.
The adjustments to net debt at 1 including new requirements with respect to the preparation and publication of regulatory accounting April 2005 as a consequence of adopting IAS 39 were apportioned between the regulatory businesses relative to net debt at 1 April 2005. statements, these changes to be fully effective for the year ending 31 March 2006.
Previously, National Grid Gass gas transportation activities were reported as a single business in the regulatory Interest is apportioned between the regulatory businesses according to the relative level of net accounting statements.
The regulatory accounting statements for 2005 06 restructured regulatory debt determined according to the principles set out above.
accounting statements must separately report the activities of the component businesses of the gas Current and deferred taxation are apportioned between the regulatory businesses relative to he transportation activity, being the NTS business and the four DNs.
Furthermore, the NTS business results of undertaking notional current and deferred tax computations for each regulatory and the LNG storage business must be reported in a separate set of regulatory accounting statements business.
The estimated capital allowances pools at 1 April 2005 have been apportioned between the regulatory businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
It has been agreed with Ofgem that the metering business and the meter reading business will be reported in the DN regulatory accounting statements.
Current tax liabilities have been apportioned relative to current tax charges and tax paid or recovered is determined by balance.
These regulatory accounting statements are the first set of regulatory accounting statements prepared Equity dividends funded from profits for the year have been apportioned on the basis of profits in accordance with this new structure.
Comparative information for 2005 has been restated onto this for the year.
Equity dividends funded from retained earnings have been apportioned on the basis of relative equity.
new structure, according to the principles set out below, but has not been audited.
The total equity of National Grid Gas at 1 April 2005, comprising called up share capital, share Attribution of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity premium account, retained profits and other reserves, is determined as a balancing item at that The condition requires that all the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity of National Grid Gas date.
The amounts at subsequent period ends are determined by separately adjusting these are attributed to the regulatory businesses reported in the regulatory accounting statements of initially allocated amounts by the equity movements derived for each regulatory business as a consequence of all other allocations, including transfer to the regulatory businesses of funds National Grid Gas.
Those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity which are not directly received by National Grid Gas from the sale of four DNs on 1 June 2005. attributable to specific regulatory businesses, have been apportioned between one or more regulatory businesses according to whether they are related items or unrelated items.
24 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Accounting Policies Continued Outer Met Area scheme, such as National Grid Gas, to account for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution A geographical area on the boundary of the East of England DN and the London DN, the Outer Met scheme and not recognise a share of the assets and liabilities or actuarial gains and losses in respect of the scheme.
Area, forms part of the London DN for managerial, operational and cost accounting purposes.
For regulatory and income accounting purposes, the Outer Met Area is treated as part of the East of England DN.
Accordingly, the relevant operating costs, assets and liabilities are reported in these Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Cash Flow Hedge regulatory accounting statements as part of the East of England DN.
These operating costs, assets Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions.
In consolidated financial statements, the and liabilities are deemed to be 9% of the transportation business operating costs, assets and amendment allows the foreign currency risk of a highly probable forecast intragroup transaction to liabilities of the London DN.
qualify as a hedged item provided that the transaction is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity entering into that transaction and the foreign currency risk will affect IFRS transitional arrangements consolidated profit or loss.
National Grid Gass transition date to IFRS is 1 April 2004.
The rules for first-time adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
In preparing IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
This replaces the disclosure requirements in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure and locates in one place all disclosures relating these restructured regulatory accounting statements, which are National Grid Gass first IFRS to financial instruments.
The new requirements incorporate many of IAS 32s disclosures as well as regulatory accounting statements, these transition rules have been applied in converting them from additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures on the risks arising from financial instruments.
the old format regulatory accounting statements previously prepared under generally accepted accounting principles in the United Kingdom UK GAAP.
As there were no previous UK GAAP regulatory accounting statements with the content of the restructured regulatory accounting New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted statements, information is not provided on the impact of adopting IFRS.
Information on the overall IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease provides guidance on determining whether arrangements which convey the right to use an asset in return for a series of payments impacts on National Grid Gas can be found in that companys annual report and accounts for 2005 06. should be accounted for in accordance IAS 17 Leases.
Implementation of this Interpretation is not expected to have a material impact on National Grid Gass results or assets and liabilities.
IFRS 1 generally requires full retrospective application of the Standards and Interpretations in force at the first reporting date.
However, IFRS 1 allows certain exemptions in the application of particular IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 addresses the issue of whether IFRS 2 Share Based Payment applies to transactions in which the entity cannot identify specifically some or all of the goods or services Standards to prior periods in order to assist companies with the transition process.
National Grid Gas has applied the following exemptions in respect of these regulatory accounting statements: received.
i National Grid Gas has elected to adopt International Accounting Standard IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives prohibits reassessment of the treatment of Measurement with effect from 1 April 2005, with no restatement of comparative information for embedded derivatives subsequent to initial recognition unless there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that otherwise would be required under the contract, the year to 31 March 2005.
Accounting policy notes n and o explain the basis of accounting for financial instruments preand post 1 April 2005. in which case reassessment is required.
Implementation of this Interpretation is not expected to have a material impact on National Grid Gass results or assets.
ii IFRS 3 Business combinations has not been applied to business combinations that occurred before the date of transition.
b Basis of consolidation These regulatory accounting statements incorporate the financial statements of National Grid Gas plc Other choices made on the adoption of IFRS: and its subsidiaries Group undertakings.
A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by National Grid Gas plc.
i At the date of transition, the vast majority of assets were valued at depreciated cost, as adjusted for IFRS measurement changes, with some assets being measured at deemed cost.
Control is achieved where National Grid Gas plc has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain the benefits from its activities.
ii For Share-based payments, all active grants were recognised retrospectively.
See accounting policies note q Share-based payments.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used under relevant local GAAP in the individual financial statements of National Grid Gas plc and subsidiaries into line with New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted in 2005 06 those used by the Group under IFRS.
In preparing these regulatory accounting statements, National Grid Gas has complied with all IFRSs applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
In addition, National Grid Gas has The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year and covered by the accounting requirements of adopted the following amendments to standards: the condition are included in the regulatory accounting statements from the effective date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of during the year, or which otherwise cease to be Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The amendment requires new covered by the accounting requirements of the condition, are included in the regulatory accounting disclosures about entities management of their capital resources and compliance with capital statements up to the effective date of disposal, or the date when those accounting requirements requirements.
Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures.
The amendment allows entities which are members of a group defined benefit pension 25 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Accounting Policies Continued c Foreign currencies Other property, plant and equipment, apart from certain meters, which are depreciated on a sum-ofTransactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the National Grid Gas undertaking the-digits basis, are depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates estimated to write off their book concerned are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each values over their estimated useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic lives, balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is given to any contractual arrangements and retranslated at closing exchange rates.
Other non-monetary assets are not retranslated unless they operational requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise determined by operational are carried at fair value.
requirements, the depreciation periods for the principal categories of property, plant and equipment are, in general, as shown below: As set out in note o below, as permitted by IFRS 1, prior to 1 April 2005 National Grid Gas adopted UK GAAP for hedge accounting and, consequently, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Years foreign currencies were translated at hedged rates instead of closing exchange rates.
Plant and machinery: Mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included in the income Meters 10 to 18 statement.
Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing operations are translated at Motor vehicles and office equipment up to 10 exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are classified as f Impairment of assets equity and transferred to National Grid Gass translation reserve.
Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its recoverable amount, if lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that are d Intangible assets other than goodwill independent from other assets, National Grid Gas estimates the recoverable amount of the cash Identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill are recorded at cost less accumulated amortisation generating unit to which that asset belongs.
and any provision for impairment.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and estimated value in use Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, are recognised only if an asset is at the date the impairment review is undertaken.
created that can be identified: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and that the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Where no internally Value in use represents the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted using a pre-tax generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recorded as an expense in discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks the period in which it is incurred.
specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Intangible assets, other than goodwill are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some indication that the carrying value of the economic useful lives.
Amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: assets may have been impaired.
Years Impairments are recognised in the income statement and, where material, are disclosed separately.
Software 3 to 5 g Taxation e Property, plant and equipment Current tax Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment Current tax asset and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected losses.
to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Cost includes payroll costs and finance costs incurred which are directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and equipment.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method and is recognised on temporary Property, plant and equipment include assets in which National Grid Gass interest comprises legally differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the protected statutory or contractual rights of use.
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, including capital expenditure for Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax safety and environmental assets, and extensions to, or enhancements to, or replacement of existing assets are recognised to the extent that is probable that taxable profits will be available against which assets.
deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other than a business combination of assets Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and equipment are included in creditors as and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the accounting profits nor the taxable profits.
deferred income and credited on a straight-line basis to the profit and loss account over the estimated economic life of the assets to which they relate.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it No depreciation is provided on freehold land and assets in the course of construction.
is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
26 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Accounting Policies Continued Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is l Pensions settled or the asset is realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or The substantial majority of National Grid Gas employees are members of the defined benefit section substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the charging the net defined benefit cost of the scheme to National Grid Gas.
Accordingly National Grid deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Gas accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
The pension charge for the year represents the contributions payable to the scheme for the period.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to National Grid Gas does not recognise a share of the assets and liabilities or the actuarial gains and the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part losses of the Scheme.
of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that is has become probable that future m Leases taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the Assets held under finance leases are recognised at their fair value or, if lower, the present value of same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax asset and liabilities on a net the minimum lease payments on inception, and depreciated over their useful economic lives.
corresponding liability is recognised as a finance lease obligation within borrowings.
Rental payments are apportioned between finance costs and reduction in the finance lease obligation, so as to achieve h Discontinued operations and non-current assets held for sale a constant rate of interest.
Cash flows and operations that relate to a major component of the business, or geographical area of operations, that have been sold or are classified as held for sale are shown separately from the n Financial instruments continuing operations of National Grid Gas.
Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of interest in the assets of National Grid Gas after deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged on assets and disposal proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
groups classified as held for sale.
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, i Inventories less any appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is established for Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials irrecoverable amounts when there is objective evidence that National Grid Gas will not be able to and, where applicable, direct labour costs as well as those overheads that have been incurred in collect all amounts due under the original payment terms.
Indications that the trade receivable may bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
become irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, and default or significant failure of payment.
j Environmental costs Provision is made for environmental costs, based on future estimated expenditures, discounted to Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate present values.
Interest income, together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income statement.
Changes in the provision arising from revised estimates or discount rates or changes in the expected timing of expenditures are recognised in the income statement.
Other financial investments are initially measured at cost including transaction costs, but with effect from 1 April 2005 are subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of investments The unwinding of the discount is included within the income statement as a financing charge.
classified at fair value through profit and loss are included in the income statement, while changes in the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss k Revenues previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Investment income Revenues primarily represent the sales value derived from the distribution of gas together with the on investments classified at fair value through profit and loss and on available-for-sale investments is sales value derived from the provision of gas metering services to customers during the year and recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
exclude value added tax and intra-group sales.
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs Revenues include an assessment of transportation services supplied to customers between the date plus accrued interest less any repayments, and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference of the last meter reading and the year end.
between the proceeds after direct issue costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the life of the borrowing.
Prior to 1 April 2005, accrued interest is presented as part of Where revenues received or receivable exceed the maximum amount permitted by regulatory current liabilities and not combined with the principal amounts payable.
agreement and adjustments will be made to future prices to reflect this over-recovery, no liability is recognised.
Similarly no asset is recognised where a regulatory agreement permits adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an under-recovery.
27 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Accounting Policies Continued Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value, and are subsequently also measured at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are included in the Exchange gains or losses arising on financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges income statement to the extent hedge accounting is not applied.
of National Grid Gass net investment in overseas operations net investment hedges are recorded directly in equity, with any ineffective portion recognised immediately in the income statement.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for issued Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the liabilities.
When independent prices are not available, fair values are determined by using valuation income statement as they arise.
techniques which refer to observable market data.
These include comparison with similar instruments Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or where market observable prices exist, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gains or losses valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
relating to cash flow hedges recognised in equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement in the same periods in which the previously hedged item affects Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are net profit or loss.
For fair value hedges the cumulative adjustment recorded to its carrying value at the accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate method.
date hedge accounting is discontinued is amortised to the income statement using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets being assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in sale are added to their cost.
Such additions cease when the assets are substantially ready for their equity is transferred to the income statement immediately.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, being the the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income date that National Grid Gas commits to purchase or sell the assets.
Regular way transactions require statement.
delivery of assets within the time frame generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
Prior to 1 April 2005, National Grid Gas adopted UK GAAP accounting principles for hedge accounting and for derivatives.
Derivatives used for hedging purposes were not recorded on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies were o Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments retranslated at hedged rates instead of closing rates.
Exchange gains and losses relating to the National Grid Gas enters into both derivative financial instruments derivatives and non-derivative hedge of the net investment in overseas subsidiaries were recorded directly in equity.
financial instruments in order to manage its interest rate and foreign currency exposures and commodity price risks in respect of expected energy usage.
The principal derivatives used include As permitted by the provisions of IFRS 1, the comparative balance sheets and income statements for interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, currency swaps, forward foreign currency contracts, the year ended 31 March 2005 have not been restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 39 or IAS 32. and interest rate swaptions.
All derivative transactions are undertaken, or maintained, with a view to providing a commercial p Restructuring costs hedge of the interest, currency or commodity price risks associated with National Grid Gass Costs arising from National Grid Gass restructuring programmes primarily relate to redundancy costs.
underlying business activities and the financing of those activities.
Redundancy costs are charged to the income statement in the year in which National Grid Gas becomes irrevocably committed to incurring the costs and the main features of the restructuring plan With effect from 1 April 2005, derivatives are carried in the balance sheet at their fair value.
have been announced to affected employees.
From 1 April 2005, the accounting policy for hedge accounting is as described below.
Disclosures on q Share-based payments the impact of implementing IAS 39 at 1 April 2005 are set out in note 1.
National Grid Gas issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Changes in the carrying value of financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value future cash flows cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on National Grid Gass estimate of shares that will hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged eventually vest.. item affects net profit or loss.
Where an asset or a liability results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the initial measurement of r Exceptional items that non-monetary asset or liability.
Exceptional items are credits or charges relating to non-recurring transactions that are material, by virtue of their size or nature, and therefore relevant to understanding National Grid Gass financial Changes in the carrying value of financial instruments that are designated as hedges of the changes performance and are shown separately to provide a better indication of the underlying results of in the fair value of assets or liabilities fair value hedges are recognised in the income statement.
equal and opposite amount is recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of hedged items, with a corresponding entry in the income statement, to the extent that the change is attributable to the risk Remeasurements are gains or losses arising from movements in the carrying value of financial being hedged and that the fair value hedge is effective.
instruments, principally derivatives, which provide economic hedges but do not achieve hedge 28 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Accounting Policies Continued accounting, or are ineffective under IAS 39 and are shown separately to provide a better indication of the underlying results of National Grid Gas.
s Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an insignificant change in value.
t Key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies and or the Notes to the Regulatory Accounting Statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: The categorisation of certain items as exceptional and the definition of adjusted earnings note 5.
The exemptions adopted under IFRS including, in particular, those relating to business combinations accounting policies note a Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies notes d intangible assets other than goodwill, e Property, plant and equipment and f Impairment of assets.
Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives note 17.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue accounting policies note k Revenues.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets accounting policies note g Taxation and note 14.
29 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06
