Statement of Directors Responsibilities for Preparing Regulatory Accounting Statements The Directors of National Grid Gas plc are required by the condition, as amended by consents received from Ofgem, to prepare regulatory accounting statements for each financial period, which comply with the obligations set out on page 1 above.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the regulatory accounting statements, National Grid Gas plc has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates and all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for preparing the regulatory accounting statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that National Grid Gas plc will continue in business.
Therefore, the regulatory accounting statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that National Grid Gas plc and its related undertakings keep accounting records in such a form that the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities, reserves and provisions of, or reasonably attributable to, each of the businesses are separately identifiable in the books of National Grid Gas and its related undertakings from those of any other business.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the regulatory accounting statements fairly present the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of, or reasonably attributable to, each business.
The Directors have responsibility to ensure that, so far as is reasonably practicable, the regulatory accounting statements have the same content and format in respect of the businesses to which they relate as the annual accounts of National Grid Gas plc: that they conform to best commercial accounting practices including all relevant accounting standards issued or adopted by the Accounting Standards Board or by the International Accounting Standards Board as the case may be, currently in force and that the accounting policies used are stated.
The Directors have responsibility to ensure that the regulatory accounting statements show separately and in appropriate detail the amounts of any revenues, costs, assets, liabilities, reserves or provisions that have been charged from or to any non-National Grid Gas business of National Grid, or that have been determined by apportionment, where they relate to goods or services received or supplied for the purposes of the businesses.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and to detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors, having prepared the regulatory accounting statements, have requested the Auditors to take whatever steps and to undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
The Directors confirm that the Audit Committee of National Grid plc continues to review the adequacy of the system of internal financial controls adopted by National Grid Gas.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the regulatory accounting statements are published and where they are published on the Internet, for the maintenance and integrity of the website.
Uncertainty regarding legal requirements is compounded, as information published on the Internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
21 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Independent Auditors Report to the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority and the Directors of National Grid Gas plc We have audited the regulatory accounting statements of National Grid Gas plc the Company for the Respective responsibilities of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority, the Directors and year ended 31 March 2006 on pages 24 to 80 which comprise the accounting policies, income Auditors statements, balance sheets, statements of recognised income and expense, cash flow statements and The nature, form and content of regulatory accounting statements are determined by the Authority.
It is the related notes to the regulatory accounting statements.
not appropriate for the auditors or the directors to assess whether the nature of the information being reported upon is suitable or appropriate for the Authoritys purposes.
Accordingly we make no such This report is made, on terms that have been agreed, solely to the Company and the Gas and Electricity assessment.
Markets Authority the Authority in accordance with Standard Special Condition A30 of the Regulatory Licence granted to the Company, being the Gas Transporter Licence in respect of the Distribution The directors of the Company are responsible for preparing the regulatory accounting statements and Networks dated 1 May 2005.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the for compliance with the Condition, as described on page 5.
Company and the Authority those matters we have agreed to state to them in our report, in order to: a assist the Company to meet its obligations under the Regulatory Licence to procure such a report: and Our responsibility is to audit the regulatory accounting statements in accordance with International b to facilitate the carrying out by the Authority of its regulatory functions, and for no other purpose.
To Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board, except as stated in the the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume any responsibility or liability in respect of Basis of audit opinion, below and having regard to the guidance contained in Audit 05 03 Reporting to our work to anyone other than those parties whom we have agreed in writing may have the benefit of Regulators of Regulated Entities.
our work, whom have accepted our engagement terms and to whom we have assumed a duty of care under written arrangements entered into with such parties.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the regulatory accounting statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Condition and, in respect of each of its DN businesses, the metering Basis of preparation business, the meter reading business, the fide-minimis business and the other activities, whether they The regulatory accounting statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in fairly present the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of, or reasonably attributable to accordance with the Condition and the accounting policies set out on pages 24 to 29. those businesses.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the other information presented as defined below is not consistent with the regulatory accounting statements, if the Company has not kept proper Note 31 includes disclosure of the revenues and costs of fide-minimis business and other activities and accounting records or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our note 32 includes disclosure of amounts charged to or from other businesses of National Grid plc or audit.
The Condition requires these disclosures to be made to the Authority, but allow the Company to remove these disclosures from the information made available to We read the other information contained in the regulatory accounting statements, on which we do not the public as per paragraph 10 of the Condition.
express an audit opinion, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the regulatory accounting statements.
The The regulatory accounting statements are separate from the statutory financial statements of the other information comprises: the Cautionary statements: the Obligation to produce regulatory accounting Company.
statements: the Operating and financing review: the Corporate governance statement and the Directors report.
22 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Independent Auditors Report to the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority and the Directors of National Grid Gas plc Continued Basis of opinion Unaudited comparatives We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued We draw your attention to the fact that all 2005 comparatives included in these regulatory accounting by the Auditing Practices Board except as noted below.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, statements are unaudited.
Our opinion is not qualified in this respect.
Further detail is provided in of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the regulatory accounting statements.
It also accounting policies note a Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements on page 24. includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the regulatory accounting statements and of whether the accounting policies are Opinion consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
In our opinion, on the basis set out above, the regulatory accounting statements fairly present in accordance with the Condition and the accounting policies set out on pages 24 to 29, the assets, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we liabilities, reserves and provisions of National Grid Gass DN businesses, metering business, meter considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that reading business, fide-minimis activities and other activities at 31 March 2006 and the revenues and the regulatory accounting statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or costs of its DN businesses, metering business, meter reading business, fide-minimis activities and other other irregularity or error.
However, as the nature, form and content of the regulatory accounting activities for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Condition statements are determined by the Authority, we did not evaluate the overall adequacy of the and the accounting policies.
presentation of information, which would have been required if we were to express an audit opinion under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Our opinion on the regulatory accounting statements is separate from our opinion on the statutory financial statements of the Company on which we reported on 30 June 2006, which are prepared for a different purpose.
Our audit report in relation to the statutory accounts of the Company our Statutory audit was made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the  LLP Companies Act 1985.
Our Statutory audit work was undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors members those matters we are required to state to them in a Statutory auditors report and for no other Cornwall Court purpose.
In these circumstances, to the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume any 19 Cornwall Street responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Birmingham Statutory audit work, for our Statutory audit report, or for the opinions we have formed in respect of that B3 2DT 18 October 2006 Statutory audit.
The maintenance and integrity of the Company web site is the responsibility of the Directors and the maintenance and integrity of the Regulators web site is the responsibility of the Authority: the work carried out by the auditors does The Condition requires the regulatory accounting statements to be drawn up on the basis set out not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that therein, including the separate disclosure of amounts charged to or from other businesses of National may have occurred to the regulatory accounting statements since they were initially presented on the web sites.
Grid plc or determined by apportionment.
The Directors of National Grid Gas plc are responsible for determining the bases of charges and apportionments, which requires a number of judgements and 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements and assumptions to be made.
We do not give an opinion on the appropriateness of the bases of charges regulatory accounting statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
23 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06
