Cautionary Statements Relationship of regulatory accounting statements with statutory accounts The financial information contained in these regulatory accounting statements does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 240 of the Companies Act 1985.
Statutory accounts for National Grid Gas plc for the year ended 31 March 2006, to which the financial information relates, will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies.
The Auditors have made a report under Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 on those statutory accounts which was unqualified and did not contain a statement under Section 237 2 or 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
The auditors opinion on the National Grid Gas plc statutory accounts is addressed to, and for the benefit of, the members of National Grid Gas plc and not for any other person or purpose.
The auditors have clarified, in giving their opinion on those statutory accounts, that it has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
In giving their opinion, they do not accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom their audit report on the statutory accounts is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by their prior consent in writing.
The statutory accounts of National Grid Gas plc can be obtained from the Company Secretarys Office, National Grid plc, 1-3 The Strand, London WC2N 5EH.
Scope of regulatory accounting statements These regulatory accounting statements are only in respect of certain businesses of National Grid Gas plc, as described in the Operating and financial review on page 3.
Reconciliations between certain financial information included in these regulatory accounting statements and the equivalent financial information for National Grid Gas plc as a whole, are provided in note 2 to these regulatory accounting statements.
Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements These regulatory accounting statements contain arbitrary apportionments of certain revenues costs, assets, liabilities and shareholders equity which are not specifically attributable to the businesses and activities reported in these regulatory accounting statements, but which, nevertheless, are required by the gas transporter licence under which these regulatory accounting statements are prepared, to be reported against those businesses and activities.
Further details of these items are provided in the Basis of preparation on page 24.
The bases used to allocate the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and shareholders equity of National Grid Gas plc to the businesses reported on in these regulatory accounting statements have been determined in accordance with the requirements of the gas transporter licence under which these regulatory accounting statements have been prepared.
These bases may differ from those used to determine the segmental analysis provided in the annual report and accounts of National Grid Gas plc.
Definition of regulatory businesses The regulatory businesses reported on in these regulatory accounting statements are defined in accordance with the gas transporter licence under which they are prepared and differ in some respects from the business definitions used in National Grid Gass annual report and accounts.
1 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06
