Notice of Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your NEXT shares, please send this document, together with the accompanying Form of Proxy, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of NEXT plc will be held at the Ramada Jarvis Hotel, 73 Granby Street, Leicester, LE1 6ES on Wednesday 17 May 2006 at 11.00 a. m. at which the following resolutions will be proposed: resolutions 1 to 10 as Ordinary Resolutions and 11 to 14 as Special Resolutions.
Ordinary business 1 To receive and adopt the accounts and reports of the directors and auditors for the period ended 28 January 2006.
2 To approve the remuneration report for the period ended 28 January 2006.
3 To declare a final dividend of 30p per share in respect of the period ended 28 January 2006.
4 To re-elect John Barton as a director who retires by rotation according to Article 91.
5 To re-elect Christos Angelides as a director who retires by rotation according to Article 91.
6 To re-elect Derek Netherton as a director who retires by rotation according to Article 91.
7 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and authorise the directors to set their remuneration.
Biographies of directors seeking re-election are shown on page 9 of the Annual Report.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolutions 8 to 10 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 11 to 14 as Special Resolutions.
8 Performance Share Plan That the rules of the NEXT 2006 Performance Share Plan the Plan, the main features of which are summarised in Appendix 1 on pages 77 to 80 and a copy of which is produced to the Meeting and signed by the Chairman for identification, be and is hereby approved and the directors are hereby authorised to: a make such modifications to the Plan as they may consider appropriate to take account of the requirements of the UK Listing Authority and best practice to adopt the Plan as so modified and to do all such acts and things as they may consider appropriate to implement the Plan: and b establish further plans based on the Plan but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities law in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual or overall participation in the Plan.
9 NEXT Risk Reward Investment Plan That the NEXT Risk Reward Investment Plan the Plan, the main features of which are described in Appendix 2 on pages 80 to 81, be and is hereby approved and the directors be and are hereby authorised to take any action they consider necessary to implement the Plan, such authority to expire at the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2007.
74 Notice of Meeting 10 Authority to allot shares under Section 80 Companies Act 1985 That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in the said Section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,000,000 such authority to expire at the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2007, save that: a the Company may make any offer or agreement before the expiry of this authority that would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after this authority has expired: and b all previous authorities to allot securities conferred by resolution of the Company pursuant to Section 80 of the Act or otherwise be and are hereby revoked to the extent that they have not been previously utilised.
11 Authority to allot shares under Section 95 Companies Act 1985 That the directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, in substitution for any existing authority to allot relevant securities, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 10 set out in the Notice of this Meeting for cash and sell relevant shares as defined in Section 94 of the Act held by the Company as treasury shares as defined in Section 162A of the Act for cash, as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem fit to deal with fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory or requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,200,000 being less than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at 21 March 2006 and shall expire at the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2007, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities or sell treasury shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
12 On-market purchase of own shares That in accordance with Article 46 of the Articles of Association of the Company and Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Company be hereby granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Act of any of its own ordinary shares provided that the authority conferred by this resolution shall: i be limited to the lesser of 36,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each or no more than 15% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting, such limit to be reduced by the number of any shares purchased pursuant to the authority granted at resolution 13 below: ii the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10p per ordinary share: iii the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount not more than 105 per cent of the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares of the Company according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire on whichever is the earlier of: a 15 months after the date on which this resolution is passed, and b the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2007: 75 Notice of Meeting v the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority.
13 Contingent contracts and off-market share purchases That, for the purposes of sections 164 and 165 of the Companies Act 1985, the proposed programme agreements to be entered into between the Company and each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG in the form produced to this meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification the Programme Agreements be and are hereby approved and the Company be and is hereby authorised to enter into the Programme Agreements and all and any contingent forward trades which may be effected or made from time to time under or pursuant to the Programme Agreements for the contingent off-market purchase by the Company of its ordinary shares of 10 pence each for cancellation, as more fully described in Appendix 3 on pages 81 to 83 the authority conferred by this special resolution to expire on whichever is the earlier of 15 months after the date on which this resolution is passed and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2007, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares under any contingent forward trade effected or made before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry, and provided that shares purchased pursuant to this authority will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under the general authority granted under resolution 12 above.
14 Change to Articles of Association That Article 88 1 of the Articles of Association of the Company be and is hereby amended by the insertion after the words higher of in the tenth line, of 1,500,000,000 in substitution for 1,000,000,000.
A J R McKinlay, Secretary Registered Office Desford Road, Enderby Leicester, LE19 4AT 12 April 2006 76 Notice of Meeting APPENDIX 1 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 8: PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN the Plan A summary of the proposed plan is given below and copies of the draft rules will be available for inspection up to and including the date of the Annual General Meeting, as noted in the Directors Report on page 12.
Operation The Remuneration Committee of the Company the Committee will supervise the operation of the Plan.
Eligibility Any employee including an executive director of the Company and any of its subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the Committee, provided that they are not within six months of their anticipated retirement date unless employed in a jurisdiction where this provision would be unlawful.
Grant of awards The Committee may grant an award in one of three forms: i conditional allocations, where a participant will receive free ordinary shares in the Company on the vesting of the award: ii nil or nominal cost options, where a participant can decide when to exercise the award over shares during a limited period of time after it has vested: or iii forfeitable shares, where a participant will have certain shareholder rights prior to the vesting of the award but will only receive complete ownership of shares on the vesting of that award.
The Committee may decide to grant cash-based awards of an equivalent value to share-based awards or to satisfy share-based awards in cash either in whole or part.
The current intention is for awards to be structured as nil cost options.
The Committee may normally grant awards within six weeks of the approval of the Plan by the shareholders of the Company and within six weeks following the Companys announcement of its results for any period.
The Committee may also grant awards when there are exceptional circumstances which the Committee considers justifies the granting of awards.
No awards will be granted more than ten years after the approval of the Plan by shareholders and the Committee will review its operation after no more than five years.
No payment will be required for the grant of an award.
Awards are not transferable other than to the participants personal representatives in the event of death.
Individual limit An individual may not normally receive awards in any financial year over shares having a market value on grant in excess of 200% of the annual base salary.
In exceptional circumstances, for example upon the recruitment or retention of a senior executive, an individual may receive awards in a financial year over shares having a market value on grant up to 300% of annual base salary.
Initially, it is proposed that awards granted over shares to executive directors will be restricted to a maximum value of 100% of annual base salary and, for other eligible employees, to 80% of annual base salary.
In working out these limits, the average closing share price over the 3 months preceding the start of the performance period will be used as in the calculation of total shareholder return in the preceding performance period.
Overall Plan limits The Plan may operate over new issue shares, treasury shares or shares purchased in the market.
77 Notice of Meeting In any period of ten calendar years the Company may not issue or have the possibility to issue more than 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the Plan and any other employee share scheme adopted by the Company.
In addition, of this 10%, not more than half i. e. 5% may relate to share options other than savings related share options.
Treasury shares will count as new issue shares for the purposes of this limit but they will also cease to count towards this limit if institutional investor bodies decide that they need not count.
Where, prior to the capital reconstruction in November 2002, the previous holding company of the group granted share options over its shares that were either exercised or exchanged for options over shares in the Company, those options will be treated as though granted by the Company at the time of the original option grants.
Vesting of awards Awards will normally vest on the later of the expiry of the relevant three year performance period and the date that the Committee determines the extent to which the applicable performance conditions see below have been satisfied and provided the participant is still a director or employee in the Companys group.
Performance conditions All awards will be subject to performance conditions set by the Committee each year and will reflect the Companys performance over a single fixed three year performance period commencing on the first day of the financial year in which awards are granted.
Initially, the vesting of awards will be subject to the same performance conditions as apply in respect of awards made under the Companys existing long term incentive plan, which are based on a target measuring the Companys total shareholder return TSR against the TSR of approximately 20 other UK listed retail companies the Comparator Group.
Accordingly, it is proposed that the Comparator Group for initial awards will comprise of the following companies: Body Shop G. U. S. Marks & Spencer Signet Boots JJB Sports Matalan Tesco Burberry J Sainsbury MFI Furniture WH Smith Carpetright Kesa Mothercare Wm Morrison Dixons Kingfisher N. Brown Woolworths Findel TSR will be calculated using the average closing return indices for each company over the three month period before the beginning of the performance period and the three month period prior to the end of the performance period.
The Companys TSR ranking against the Comparator Group Percentage of the total number of shares held under an award that will vest Below median 0% Median 30% Upper quartile 100% Between median and upper quartile 30% to 100% on a straight-line basis Irrespective of where Company performance ranks, no award will vest unless the earnings per share of the Company has increased by at least the increase in the Retail Prices Index over the relevant performance period.
There will be no opportunity to retest performance if the performance conditions are not satisfied over the three year performance period.
The Committee may however vary the performance conditions applying to existing awards to take account of events that the Committee considers exceptional, including technical events such as changes in accounting standards, the treatment of an event affecting a company in the Comparator Group from time to time and the impact of corporate events including acquisitions by the Company provided that, in the opinion of the Committee, the varied performance conditions are not materially less challenging than those originally set.
78 Notice of Meeting The Committee will review the performance conditions each time awards are granted in order to ensure that they are not materially less challenging taking account of the Companys financial circumstances that prevail at the relevant time and may impose different performance conditions for awards granted in subsequent years.
The Committee will consult shareholders and major representative bodies before applying substantially different performance conditions to awards from those described above.
Leaving employment As a general rule, an award will lapse upon a participant leaving the employment of the Companys group.
However, if before the vesting of an award a Participant ceases to be a director or employee within the Companys group by reason of death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement at contractual retirement age or any other age with the agreement of his employer, the sale or transfer of their employing company or business out of the Companys group, or any other reason as determined by the Committee, then the award will vest on the normal vesting date provided that the performance conditions have been satisfied at that time, with a pro-rata reduction in the size of the award for the time that has elapsed up to the date of cessation compared to the original three year vesting period.
In other exceptional circumstances, the Committee will have discretion to determine that an award will vest on the date of cessation to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied at that time taking account of the fact that the performance conditions will be measured over a shorter period than originally envisaged and time pro-rating shall apply.
The Committee can decide not to pro-rate the award if it decides it would be inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
Corporate events In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement, or winding up of the Company not being an internal corporate reorganisation, all awards will vest early to the extent that the performance conditions have, in the opinion of the Committee, been satisfied at that time.
The awards will generally be subject to a time pro-rated reduction to reflect the reduced period of time between the grant of the awards and the time of vesting although this reduction may not be applied if the Committee determines otherwise.
Awards may also vest on the same basis if a demerger, special dividend or other similar event is proposed which in the opinion of the Committee would affect the market price of the shares to a material extent.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation, awards will normally be replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a new holding company, unless the Committee decides that awards should vest on the same basis as described above.
Participants rights Awards structured as conditional allocations and options will not confer any shareholder rights on participants until the awards have vested and the participants have received their shares.
Holders of awards of forfeitable shares will have certain shareholder rights except that they will be required to waive their right to receive dividends.
Rights attaching to shares Any shares allotted when an award vests or when it is exercised will rank equally with all other shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
Variation of capital In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, or in the event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend or other similar event which materially affects the market price of the shares, the Committee may make such adjustments as it considers appropriate to the number of shares subject to an award and or the exercise price payable if any.
Alterations to the Plan The Committee may, at any time, amend the provisions of the Plan in any respect, provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendments that are to the advantage of participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits on the issue of shares or the transfer of shares held in treasury, the basis for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the shares or cash to be acquired and the adjustment of awards or options.
79 Notice of Meeting The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the Companys group.
Overseas Plans The Board may at any time without further shareholder approval establish further plans in overseas territories, any such plan to be similar to the Plan, but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual and overall participation in the Plan.
APPENDIX 2 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 9: NEXT RISK REWARD INVESTMENT PLAN the Plan Following the approval given by shareholders at the Companys Extraordinary General Meeting on 15 July 2005 for the risk reward investment plan, shareholders approval is sought for the Company to offer its key executives the opportunity to participate in a further Plan.
Under UKLA Listing Rules, the continued employment condition imposed on participants determines that the Plan is regarded as a long term incentive plan and, as such, requires prior shareholder approval.
The principal features of the Plan are unchanged from the plan approved in July 2005 and are summarised below.
The Remuneration Committee will determine the executive directors and senior executives approximately 25 that may participate in the Plan, all of whom would be regarded as important to the future of NEXT.
The Plan requires these participants to make a personal investment in a financial contract out of their own resources.
As with the 2005 Plan, it is proposed that NEXT will make special contributions to the NEXT Employee Share Ownership Trust the ESOT, which will make investments in financial contracts with similar potential returns.
These investments would be held on revocable trusts for those executives who have made a personal investment.
On maturity, any returns accruing to the trust would only be distributed either in NEXT shares and or cash to those participants who have remained with NEXT save to the extent described below.
This continued employment condition would therefore increase the incentive for the participant to remain with NEXT and commit to its future development.
The investments are derivative instruments that require NEXTs share price to grow substantially.
The ESOT investments will be in the form of listed warrants purchased directly from Goldman Sachs International or BNP Paribas Arbitrage Issuance BV.
Participants personal investment contracts will be structured as a bet with an independent third party regulated by the FSA which may also purchase warrants to hedge its risk under those contracts.
The minimum and maximum share price targets, as well as the potential returns on maturity, will be materially the same for both the ESOTs and the participants investments.
The pricing of the warrants and participants personal investment contracts will be determined at the time of their issue and will be primarily dependent on NEXTs prevailing share price and future dividend expectations.
Participants will lose their investment in full if growth does not reach the minimum level.
The Remuneration Committee believes that targets for the 2006 investments will be extremely challenging for the retail industry in the current economic environment.
Furthermore, the participants are required to invest and risk their own funds and will lose their total investment at all share prices up to the Minimum Share Price 20.50 in 2005, whereas Shareholders will continue to benefit from any share price increase up to and beyond the Minimum Share Price.
By contrast, most LTIP arrangements are of a nil cost nature and lack personal financial commitment by executives.
As in 2005, the total cost to NEXT of the Plan in 2006 will be limited to a maximum of 2 million, inclusive of any employers national insurance liabilities and corporation tax reliefs available to the Company.
If the amount invested by the Company prior to the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2007 is less than 2 million then no additional investments may be made and this authority will lapse at that time.
It is important to note that any returns in excess of these costs will be paid for by the counterparties to the contracts and will not be subsidised, supported or underwritten by NEXT in any way.
Each participant will be limited to an amount that, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, represents a significant, but not excessive, investment of personal funds.
In addition, the potential contribution by NEXT to fund investments made by the ESOT will 80 Notice of Meeting be limited to a maximum of three times the personal investment of each participant.
The benefits provided by NEXT under the Plan will not be pensionable.
In the event that a participant leaves the Companys employment before the maturity of the investment contracts other than in good leaver circumstances such as redundancy, disability or death, any entitlement to a return on investments held by the ESOT will be forfeited in full.
In good leaver circumstances, any entitlement will be restricted pro-rata to the time the participant was employed by NEXT during the investment period.
Any excess returns received by the ESOT which would have otherwise accrued to departing executives will be retained in the trust and used, at the discretion of the trustee, to provide benefits for other employees of the NEXT group.
Based on a share price of 17.25 and current market conditions, a target price range as for the 2006 investments is likely to be 23.00 to 27.50.
The investment of up to 2 million in the Plan by the Company should be viewed in the context of the required growth in shareholder value.
On this basis, unless a Final Share Price of 23.00 is achieved in July 2010, representing an increase in shareholder value of at least 1.4 billion, the executives would lose all of their investments.
If the Final Share Price reaches 27.50, the increase in shareholder value would be around 2.5 billion, whilst executives would receive the maximum return of approximately 14 times their personal investment.
Against a share price of 17.25 and market capitalisation of 4.2 billion, the Board believes that, in conjunction with proposed LTIP incentives, implementation of the Plan in 2006 will help maintain management focus on the long term creation of shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee will have a general power to amend the terms of the Plan.
However, changes to: the persons participating in the Plan: the maximum amount that NEXT may contribute in total to the ESOT: the maximum NEXT contribution to the ESOT in relation to each participants personal investment: the basis for determining, and the terms of, a participants entitlements under the Plan: and the basis of adjustments to a participants entitlements under the Plan in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital will not be made to the advantage of any participants without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of a change of legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, or regulatory treatment to participants or the Company or any member of the NEXT group.
Authority to implement the Plan will expire at the Annual General Meeting in 2007.
APPENDIX 3 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 13: CONTINGENT PURCHASE CONTRACTS By virtue of special resolution number 12 passed at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 18 May 2005, shareholder authority was given to the Company to make on-market purchases of shares for cancellation.
This authority was limited to a maximum of 39 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM held in 2006 or 18 November 2006.
At the same AGM, authority was granted to the Company to make off-market purchases of shares for cancellation under contingent purchase contracts to be entered into with each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG.
This authority was limited to a maximum of 6 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM to be held in 2006 or 18 November 2006.
Since the granting of those authorities, the Company has bought back 15,103,000 shares for cancellation, representing 5.7% of its issued share capital at 29 January 2005, at a total cost 217.5 million.
Of these purchases, 2,150,000 shares have been bought pursuant to contingent purchase contracts at a total cost of 30.6 million.
81 Notice of Meeting Under Sections 164 and 165 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company is not permitted to make off-market purchases or contingent purchases of its shares unless it obtains advance shareholder approval to the proposed contract terms.
Furthermore, under the rules of the UK Listing Authority the Listing Rules the Company may not purchase its shares at a time when any director is in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information about the Company.
Accordingly, no purchases of shares would normally be made in periods when the Directors might be in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information Close Periods.
Typically, these include the periods from the Companys half year end up to the announcement of its interim results in September and the January year end up to the announcement of full year results in March each year.
These Close Periods inevitably reduce the number of shares the Company is able to purchase.
In order to achieve maximum flexibility in its share purchase activities, the Company has previously entered into irrevocable and nondiscretionary programmes to allow it to buy shares during Close Periods.
Another method of providing flexibility in its share purchase activities has been for the Company to enter into contingent forward purchase contracts outside of Close Periods.
Pursuant to the authority granted at the 2005 AGM, the Company entered into agreements with each of the above banks the Existing Agreements and the Company intends to terminate the Existing Agreements and enter into new agreements.
The Company proposes to enter into an agreement with each of three banks the Programme Agreements, under which it may although it is not obliged to enter into contingent forward trades Contingent Forward Trades or CFT from time to time.
Under the terms of each CFT, the Company may purchase a fixed number of shares each week over a period of between 20 to 30 weeks.
The maximum number of shares that can be purchased under each CFT is limited to 50,000 shares per week.
Details of each CFT will be announced to shareholders on the day it is entered into by the Company.
Whether or not the Company purchases shares in a particular week during the term of a CFT is dependent upon the Companys share price not reaching a level set at the time that contract is entered into the Suspension Level.
The Suspension Level is determined by the Company and must be between 104% and 110% of the Companys share price as at the start of the CFT.
The price at which the Company may purchase shares during the term of a Contingent Forward Trade the Forward Price shall also be fixed at the start of the CFT.
The Forward Price is subject to a maximum of 99% of the share price at the start of the contract and a minimum of 10 pence the par value of a share.
This structure would allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount to the market price as at the time each CFT commences, for so long as the Suspension Level is not reached, without breaching the Listing Rules.
If the Suspension Level is reached, the CFT would terminate automatically at that time and no further shares would be purchased under that contract.
In such circumstances, a reduced number of shares would be purchased by the Company for cancellation under that contract.
Under the provisions of sections 164 and 165 of the Companies Act 1985, the Programme Agreements and Contingent Forward Trades are contingent purchase contracts to purchase shares by the Company off-market.
Accordingly resolution 13, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks shareholder approval to the terms of the Programme Agreements to be entered into between the Company and each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG the Bank s. A copy of each of the Programme Agreements will be available at the AGM.
Copies will also be available for inspection at the Companys registered office at Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester LE19 4AT or at the offices of the Companys legal advisers, Eversheds, Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street, London EC4V 4JL until the date of the AGM and at the AGM itself.
The Programme Agreements will have a duration of the shorter of the period to the date of the AGM in 2007 or 15 months after the date on which the resolution is passed and will incorporate the terms of an ISDA Master Agreement and Schedule.
The Programme Agreements will be entered into and each CFT will be effected outside a Close Period but shares may be purchased during a Close Period by the Company.
The minimum and maximum amount of time between a CFT being effected and shares being purchased is 5 days and 30 weeks respectively.
Should shareholder approval be granted, any number of CFT may be effected with the Banks at any time, provided that: the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would be 6 million, representing 2.4% of its issued share capital at 28 January 2006: the total cost of shares that the Company would be permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority may not exceed 100 million including costs : 82 Notice of Meeting the Forward Price may not exceed 105% of the average middle market closing price of the Companys shares as derived from the Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five days immediately preceding the day on which the Contingent Forward Trade was effected: the Forward Price will be no more than 99% of the share price at the time the Contingent Forward Trade was effected: the minimum price that can be paid for any share is 0.10: and only one Contingent Forward Trade will be entered into on any particular day.
Subject to the limits set out above, the Company will select the Suspension Level and the duration of each CFT, and the Forward Price will be determined by the relevant Bank.
Shares purchased via the Programme Agreements will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under any authority granted at the AGM on 18 May 2006 for on-market purchases.
No shares will be purchased under that authority on the same day that a CFT is entered into.
The authority granted to the Company under this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company held in 2007 or on 17 August 2007, whichever is the earlier, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of shares under any CFT effected before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry.
The purchase of shares under the Programme Agreements will always be physically settled by delivery of shares to the Company except in the case of certain events of default or termination events.
The total number of share options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 21 March 2006 was 9,687,546.
This represents 3.9% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company was to buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to this special resolution, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 21 March 2006 would represent 4.0% of the reduced issued share capital.
Attendance and voting All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Members who are entitled to attend and vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him, and a proxy need not also be a member.
A proxy may vote on any other business which may properly come before the meeting.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
If you do not intend being present at the meeting please sign and return it so as to reach the Companys registrar at least 48 hours before the meeting.
The return by a member of a fully completed form of proxy will not preclude any such member from attending in person and voting at the meeting.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 1am on 16 May 2006 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 1am on 16 May 2006 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
All special business resolutions will be put to poll votes.
This means that the votes of all shareholders, including those who cannot attend the meeting but who submit a Proxy Form, are counted.
The procedures for the poll votes will be explained at the AGM.
In respect of resolution 13 on contingent share purchase contracts, the Companies Act 1985 provides that this resolution will not be effective if any member of the Company holding shares to which it relates i. e. those which may be purchased pursuant to the Programme Agreements exercised the voting rights carried by any of those shares in voting on the special resolution and the resolution would not have been passed if he had not done so.
Therefore, NEXT intends to disregard the poll votes which have been cast in favour of resolution 13 attaching to 6 million shares being the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to the Programme Agreements from both the total number of votes cast in favour of this resolution and the total number of votes cast.
83 Notice of Meeting Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM to be held on 17 May 2006 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
