N040009 Report 27-88 13 6 06 1:47 pm Page 43 Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records the auditors responsibilities set out in their report, is made with a view which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities, and for the preparation of a directors report and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare financial of the Companies Act 1985. statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Company law requires the directors The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements the to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, company and the group have used appropriate accounting policies, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent Accounting Standard IAS Regulation.
judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The directors have IAS 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial responsibility for ensuring that the company keeps accounting records period the companys financial position, financial performance and which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects company and the group, and which enable them to ensure that the of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards The directors have general responsibilities for taking such steps as are Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
The directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Northern Foods plc Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements 43
