N040009 Report 27-88 13 6 06 1:48 pm Page 75 Independent auditors report Company financial statements To the members of Northern Foods plc We read the Report of the directors and the other information We have audited the individual company financial statements contained in the Annual report including the unaudited part of the the financial statements of Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks Directors remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our ended 1 April 2006 which comprise the Balance sheet, the Cash flow report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material statement, the Statement of recognised income and expense, inconsistencies with the financial statements.
the Reconciliation of movements in total equity and the related notes 37 to 54.
These financial statements have been prepared under Basis of audit opinion the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards information in the Directors remuneration report that is described on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the We have reported separately on the group financial statements part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been of Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2006. audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys adequately disclosed.
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in information in the financial statements and the part of the accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Opinion In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union as applied requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the company's affairs as at 1 April 2006: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant framework report described as having been audited have been properly prepared and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the remuneration report described as having been audited have been IAS Regulation: and, properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and the Report of the directors is consistent with the financial statements.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you on the consistency of the Report of the directors with the financial statements.
We also Deloitte & Touche LLP report to you if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors Leeds remuneration and transactions with the company is not disclosed.
31 May 2006 We also report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Notes: An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from the legislation in the jurisdiction.
Northern Foods plc Independent auditors report company 75
