northumbrian Water Group plc 89 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Parent Company auditors report independent auditors report to the members of northumbrian Water Group plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Northumbrian Water Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes 31 to 40.
These parent Company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Northumbrian Water Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and that the information given in the parent Company directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises Highlights, NWG at a Glance, the Chairmans Statement, the Managing Directors Statement, Corporate Responsibility, the Business Review, Appendix to the Business Review, Board Directors Biographies, Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report and Shareholder Information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
opinion In our opinion: the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2006: the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
ernst & Young llP Registered Auditor Newcastle upon Tyne 6 June 2006 CliCk to return to Contents
