CONTINGENT LIABILITY There are no significant contingent liabilities in the Group other than bank guarantees entered into in the normal course of business.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Identity of related parties The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, associate and with its directors and executive officers.
The remuneration of the individual Directors is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The remuneration of the Directors and other key members of management during the year was as follows: 2006 2005 '000 '000 Short term employee benefits 3,043 2,454 Equity compensation benefits 1,097 770 4,140 3,224 During the year the Group purchased goods and services in the ordinary course of business from Rave Technologies India Private Limited, an associated undertaking, at a cost of 1,100,000 2005: 549,000.
There were balances of 20,000 payable to Rave as at 30 April 2006 2005: nil.
ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS The following sets out the key assumptions concerning the future and key sources of estimation and uncertainty at the balance sheet date that may cause material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities within the next financial year.
Insurance proceeds The accounts include an amount of 34.6m recognised as compensation following the Buncefield explosion.
This is a provisional amount based on what is reliably measurable at 30 April 2006 for the recoverability of impaired assets and costs incurred to date.
At 30 April 2006 20.0m of insurance proceeds had been received.
The net balance of 14.6m is shown in other receivables.
Land and buildings at our head office next to Buncefield have been impaired in full to reflect the reduction in market value following the incident.
An insurance receipt equivalent to this impairment has been recognised for re-instating the building to the extent that it is reliably measurable under the Groups policy and is recognised as other operating income.
As part of this, land valued at 6.5m has been written down to nil with no expected receipts recorded.
Other assets destroyed in the incident have been impaired in full.
Insurance proceeds have been recognised to the extent they can be reliably measured and are recognised as other operating income.
Where customers business was interrupted full provision for service credits and compensation has been made.
Insurance proceeds have been recognised where such payments are virtually certain to be recovered under the insurance policy and are shown as other operating income.
Discussions are still taking place with the insurers concerning the actual compensation due.
Pensions Details of the principal actuarial assumptions used in calculating the recognised liability for the defined benefit plan are given in note 18.
Changes to the discount rate, mortality rates and actual return on plan assets may necessitate material adjustments to this liability in the future.
Provisions Note 19 to the accounts contains information about the assumptions made concerning the Groups provisions.
EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS As stated in note 1, these are the Groups first consolidated accounts prepared in accordance with adopted IFRSs.
The accounting policies set out in note 1 have been applied in preparing the accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006, the comparative information presented in these accounts for the year ended 30 April 2005 and in the preparation of an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 May 2004 the Groups date of transition.
