79 Notes to the Company Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the accounts, except as noted below.
In these accounts the following new standards have been adopted for the first time: FRS 20 Share based payments FRS 21 Post balance sheet events FRS 22 Earnings per share FRS 23 Foreign exchange rates FRS 24 Hyperinflationary economies FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and presentation FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement FRS 27 Life assurance FRS 28 Corresponding amounts The only new standard to impact on the reported results is FRS 26 and the Companys policy on Derivative financial instruments is detailed below.
FRS 28 Corresponding amounts has no material effect as it imposes the same requirements for comparatives as hitherto required by the Companies Act 1985.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with entities which form part of the Group.
Basis of preparation The separate accounts of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
As permitted by that Act, the separate accounts statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, and on the historical cost basis.
Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 1 and has not presented its own cash flow statement.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Investments Investments in subsidiary and associate undertakings are stated at cost unless, in the opinion of the Directors, there has been impairment to their value in which case they are immediately written down to their estimated recoverable amount.
Financial Instruments Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value which is the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs, thereafter at amortised cost.
Finance charges are accounted for on an accruals basis to the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are recognised on the Companys balance sheet at fair value.
Other than the fair value of financial instruments on transition to FRS 26, the Company has not applied hedge accounting and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Effective first time adoption of FRS 26 on 1 May 2005 The Company has taken advantage of the transitional arrangements of FRS 26 not to restate corresponding amounts.
Instead the following policies were applied in respect of financial instruments issued by the Company, investments in debt and equity securities, derivative financial instruments and hedging: In the comparative period all financial assets and financial liabilities were carried at cost amortised as appropriate less, in the case of financial assets, provision for any permanent diminution in value.
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities on transition is taken to a cash flow hedging reserve.
Corresponding amounts for the comparative year are presented and disclosed in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and FRS 4.
