43 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Northgate Information Solutions plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated accounts of the Company for the year ended 30th April 2006 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in its associate.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 5 July 2006.
Statement of compliance The Group accounts have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company accounts in accordance with UK GAAP, these are presented on pages 78 to 86.
These are the Groups first consolidated accounts under IFRS and IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards has been applied.
An explanation of how the transition to IFRSs has affected the reported financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group is provided in note 29 to the accounts.
This includes reconciliations of both equity and profit for the year ended 30 April 2005, from amounts previously reported under UK GAAP to those now reported under IFRS.
Basis of preparation The accounts are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand and have been prepared under the historic cost convention except for the following assets and liabilities that are stated at fair value: derivative financial instruments.
Accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented except for those relating to the recognition, measurement, disclosure and presentation of financial instruments: all matters dealt with in IAS 32 and 39.
The Group has taken an exemption to apply IAS 32 and 39 from 1 May 2005.
Prior to this date, financial instruments have been accounted for under UK GAAP.
A reconciliation of equity on adoption of IAS 32 and 39 at 1 May 2005 is provided in note 22.
From 1 May 2005, the Group has adopted IAS 32 and 39 which is a change of accounting policy.
This only impacts our policy in respect of derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting.
The revised policy is set out below.
In addition, the Group has taken the following optional exemptions from the full retrospective application of IFRS accounting policies: Business combinations - the provisions of IFRS 3 'Business combinations' have been applied prospectively from 1 May 2004.
The Group has chosen not to restate business combinations that took place before the date of transition.
Exchange differences the Group has applied the IFRS 1 exemption from the requirement for retrospective application of IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates in respect of cumulative translation differences.
This means that the Group has elected not to classify any retained earnings arising prior to 1 May 2004 within its cumulative translation differences, which are therefore, deemed to be zero at the transition date.
Share-based payments the Group has applied the option not to apply IFRS 2 to equity instruments granted on or before 7 November 2002.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries or where the Company has significant influence its associate made up to 30 April each year.
There are no joint ventures.
Control is achieved where the Group has the power directly or indirectly to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Significant influence is where the Company is able to influence the financial and operating policies, but is not able to govern them.
Subsidiaries On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of during a financial year are included from, or up to, the effective date of acquisition or disposal.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the accounts of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies in line with those used by the Group.
