80 Notes to the Company Accounts continued for the year ended 30 April 2006 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Financial Instruments continued Own-shares held by ESOP Trust Transactions of the Company-sponsored ESOP Trust are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore reflected in the Company accounts.
In particular, the Trusts purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Foreign exchange Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the dates of transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the rates ruling at that date.
Translation differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Dividends Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Share-based payments The share option programme allows employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted after 7 November 2002 and those not yet vested as at the effective date of FRS 20 is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
The Company does not account for share options granted in respect of employees of subsidiaries.
Financial guarantee contracts The Company has not adopted amendments to FRS 26 and FRS 12 in relation to financial guarantee contracts which will apply for periods commencing on or after 1 May 2006.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contracts as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
The Company does not expect the amendments to have any impact on the accounts for the period commencing 1 May 2006.
STAFF NUMBERS The only employees of the Company were the Directors.
The average number employed during the year was nine 2005: nine.
No remuneration was paid by the Company to the Directors.
The Directors remuneration is paid out of the Companys subsidiaries, which includes equity settled share based payment expense see note 18 in notes to the consolidated accounts and the Directors Remuneration Report.
LOSS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of the parent company is not presented as part of these accounts.
The loss for the financial year of the parent company was 10,167,000 2005: loss 5,596,000.
The audit fee for the parent company was 13,000 2005: 10,000.
