Shareholder Information Payment of dividends to mandated accounts Low cost share dealing facilities Where shareholders have given instructions for A telephone and internet dealing service has been payment to be made direct into a bank or building arranged through Lloyds TSB Registrars which society, this is done through the Bankers Automated provides a simple way of buying and selling Pearson Clearing System BACS, with the associated tax shares.
Commission is 1% with a minimum charge of voucher showing the tax credit attributable to the 25 for telephone dealing and 0.5% with a minimum dividend payment sent direct to the shareholder charge of 15 for internet dealing.
For telephone sales at the address shown on our register.
If you wish call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30 am and 4.30 pm, the tax voucher to be sent to your bank or building Monday to Friday, and for internet sales log on to society, please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars, www.
You will need your The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
shareholder reference number as shown on your share Telephone 0870 600 3986 or, for those shareholders certificate.
A postal facility, which provides a simple, with hearing difficulties, textphone number low cost way of buying and selling Pearson shares, 0870 600 3950. is available through the companys stockbroker, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited, 20 Moorgate, Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP London EC2R 6DA.
The plan provides the benefit of giving shareholders An alternative weekly postal dealing service the right to buy the companys shares on the London is available through our registrars: please stock market with the cash dividend.
If you would like telephone 0870 242 4244 for details.
further information about the DRIP, please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 241 3018.
ShareGift Shareholders with small holdings of shares, whose Individual Savings Accounts ISAs value makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish to Lloyds TSB Registrars offer ISAs in Pearson shares.
donate them to ShareGift, the share donation charity For more information please call them on registered charity number 1052686.
ShareGift is 0870 242 4244. particularly designed to accept unwanted shares and uses the ultimate proceeds to support a wide range of UK charities.
Over 10m has been given by ShareGift so far to over 1,000 different UK charities.
Further information about ShareGift and the charities it has supported may be obtained from their website, www.
org or by contacting ShareGift at 46 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN.
124 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Shareholder information online Tips on protecting your shares Lloyds TSB Registrars provide a range of shareholder Keep any documentation that contains your information online.
You can check your holding and shareowner reference number in a safe place and find practical help on transferring shares or updating destroy any documentation which you no longer your details at www.
Lloyds TSB need by shredding it.
Registrars can be contacted for information on Inform the registrars promptly when you change 0870 600 3970. your address.
Information about the Pearson share price Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact The current price of Pearson ordinary shares the registrars if you do not receive your dividend can be obtained from the companys website, cheque or better still, make arrangements to have www.
ft. com the dividend paid directly into your bank account.
Consider holding your shares electronically in a American Depositary Receipts ADRs CREST account via a nominee.
Pearsons ordinary shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of ADRs and traded under For more information on how you can protect the symbol PSO.
Each ADR represents one ordinary your shares from fraud please visit our website share.
All enquiries regarding registered ADR holder at www.
com shareholderfaqs accounts and payment of dividends should be directed to The Bank of New York, the authorised depositary Advisers bank for Pearsons ADR programme, at The Bank Auditors  LLP of New York, Investor Services, P. O.
Box 11258, Bankers HSBC Bank Plc Church Street Station, New York, NY 10286-1258, telephone 1-888 BNY ADRs toll free within Brokers JPMorgan Cazenove Limited, Citigroup the US or 1 212 815 3700 outside the US, Financial advisers Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited, or e-mail shareowners@bankofny.
com, or sign-in at J. Henry Schroder & Co. Limited www.
Voting rights for registered ADR holders can be exercised through The Bank of New Solicitors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, Herbert York, and for beneficial ADR holders and or nominee Smith and Morgan, Lewis & Bockius accounts through your US brokerage institution.
Pearson will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 20-F which will contain 2007 Financial calendar a US GAAP reconciliation.
Ex-dividend date 4 April Share register fraud: protecting your investment Record date 10 April Pearson does not contact its shareholders directly to Last date for dividend reinvestment election 26 April provide recommendation advice and neither does it appoint third parties to do so.
As required by law, our Annual general meeting 27 April shareholder register is available for public inspection Payment date for dividend and share but we cannot control the use of information obtained purchase date for dividend reinvestment 11 May by persons inspecting the register.
Please treat any approaches purporting to originate from Pearson Interim results 30 July with caution.
Interim dividend 21 September 125 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006
