NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING PENDRAGON PLC Incorporated in England with Registered No.
2304195 Notice is hereby given that the nineteenth Annual General Meeting of Pendragon PLC the Company will be held at Loxley House, 2 Oakwood Court, Little Oak Drive, Annesley, Nottinghamshire, NG15 0DR on Friday, 27 April 2007 at 10.30 am for the following purposes: As ordinary business: 1.
To receive the annual accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2006, together with the Directors Report and the Auditors Report on those accounts and on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
To receive and approve the Directors Remuneration Report advisory vote.
To re-elect Mr M T Davies as a director.
To re-elect Miss H C Sykes as a director.
To re-elect Mr T G Finn as a director.
To re-elect Mr W W Rhodes as a director.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
As special business: To consider and if thought fit to pass the following resolution, which will be proposed as as a special resolution: 9.
THAT the Company be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to article 1 K of the articles of association of the Company and section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 in substitution for all existing and unexercised authorities granted to the Company pursuant to the said article 1 K and section 166, which authorities are hereby revoked to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of its own ordinary shares on a recognised stock exchange of up to an aggregate of 65,602,735 ordinary shares of 5p each at a price per share which is not more than five per cent above the average of the middle market quotation for shares of the same class derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List during the five dealing days immediately prior to the date of purchase of such shares nor less than the nominal value of the shares, provided that the authority conferred by this resolution shall, unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, expire on 27 October 2007 or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2008, whichever is the earlier, except in relation to a purchase of shares a contract for which shall have been made before that time.
By order of the Board Loxley House H C Sykes 2 Oakwood Court Secretary Little Oak Drive 15 February 2007 Annesley Nottingham NG15 0DR A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote on a poll instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A proxy form is enclosed and to be effective must reach the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, The Proxy Processing Centre, Telford Road, Bicester OX26 4LD not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
The completion and return by a member of a duly completed form of proxy will not preclude any such member who wishes to do so from attending in person and voting at the Annual General Meeting convened by the above notice.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purposes of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members by 10.30 am on Wednesday, 25 April 2007.
If the meeting is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
Copies of the directors service contracts and the register of directors interests maintained under section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours on any weekday excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays and will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting for at least 15 minutes before and during the meeting.
87 Address Pendragon PLC Loxley House 2 Oakwood Court Little Oak Drive Annesley Nottingham NG15 0DR Telephone 01623 725000 Fax 01623 725010 Web www.
com Design Pendragon Marketing Neway House Little Oak Drive Annesley Nottingham NG15 0PR
