1 Accounting policies continued i Impairment The carrying amounts of the group's assets, other than inventories see accounting policy j and deferred tax assets see accounting policy n, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the asset's recoverable amount is estimated see accounting policy b.
For goodwill the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cashgenerating units and then, to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset's carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
j Inventories i Consignment vehicles are regarded as being effectively under the control of the group and are included within inventories on the balance sheet as the group has the significant risks and rewards of ownership even though legal title has not yet passed.
The corresponding liability is included in trade and other payables.
ii Motor vehicles including consignment and demonstrator vehicles and parts inventories are stated at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
Parts inventories are based on an average purchase cost principle and are written down to fair value by providing for obsolescence on a time in stock based formula approach.
k Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
l Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
m Cash and Cash Equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise deposits with banks and financial institutions, bank and cash balances, and liquid investments, net of bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
In the balance sheet, bank overdrafts are included in current borrowings.
q Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
r Employee benefits Pension obligations The group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution plans, the assets of which are held in independent trustee administered funds.
Pension accounting costs for defined benefit plans are assessed by determining the pension obligation using the projected unit credit method after including a credit for the expected return on plan assets.
Under this method, in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries, the amounts charged in respect of employee benefits reflect the cost of benefits accruing in the year and the cost of financing historical accrued benefits.
The present value of pension obligations is measured by reference to market yields on high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Plan assets are measured at fair value.
The groups total contributions relating to the defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement in the year to which they relate.
Change in accounting policy The group recognises all actuarial gains and losses arising from defined benefit plans directly in equity.
In its financial statements for periods beginning before 1 January 2006 the group applied the corridor method to recognise in the income statement actuarial gains and losses over the expected working lives of employees in the plans.
This change in accounting policy was due to the closure of the schemes to future accrual, employees no longer participate in the plan and the service period over which the corridor movements are spread is nil.
As a consequence of this the directors consider it is no longer appropriate to spread the gains and losses over the service period and the directors consider that full recognition of the actuarial gains and losses in the 'Statement of Recognised Income and Expense' gives more reliable and relevant information.
The directors consider this to be more reliable and relevant as the revised policy will therefore reflect the full pension obligation on the balance sheet.
The change in accounting policy was recognised retrospectively in accordance with the transitional provisions of the amendment, and comparatives have been restated.
The change in accounting policy had the following impact on these financial statements: Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2006 2005 m m Decrease in net administration expense 8.6 - Increase in income tax expense 2.6 - Increase in profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 6.0 - Increase in earnings per share pence 1.0p - The above amount arises primarily due to the curtailment of the defined benefit scheme which has been deemed exceptional in nature.
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 2006 2005 m m Increase decrease in net income recognised directly in equity 12.7 12.0 Increase decrease in total recognised income and expense for the year 12.7 12.0 Balance Sheet 2006 2005 m m Cumulative increase in retirement benefit obligations 0.9 19.0 Cumulative increase in deferred tax asset 0.3 5.7 Cumulative decrease in retained earnings 0.6 13.3 The adjustment to retained earnings at 1 January 2005 was a decrease of 1.3 million.
