NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30 Non-current assets classified as held for sale The group holds a number of freehold properties and items of plant and equipment that are currently being marketed for sale which are expected to be disposed during 2007.
Impairment losses of 4.0m on the remeasurement of these assets to the lower of their carrying amount and their value less costs to sell have been recognised in the income statement within Other income - gains on the sale of businesses and property.
During the year non-current assets classified as held for sale disposed realised a profit of 10.9m which is included on the income statement under Other income - gains on the sale of businesses and property.
These properties form part of central segment assets.
31 Accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Critical accounting judgements when applying the group's accounting policies Certain critical accounting judgements in applying the group's accounting policies are described below: Goodwill impairment The carrying value of Goodwill is tested annually for impairment by using cash flow projections for each cash generating unit.
These projections are based upon actual and short term planned results extrapolated over a 20 year period.
A discount rate of 8.0% is used.
Intangible assets Management undertook a review of intangible assets that are pertinent to the motor business.
This included consideration of customer lists, franchise rights, brands and other intangible assets.
The review concluded that for acquisitions undertaken since 1 January 2004 no intangible assets or rights had been acquired with the exception of the value attaining to the order book that existed at the point of acquisition.
Repurchase commitments The group enters into leasing arrangements whereby it agrees to repurchase vehicles from lessees or providers of lease finance at the end of the lease agreement, typically two to four years in the future.
The repurchase price is determined at the time the agreement is entered into based on the then estimate of a vehicles future residual value.
The actual value of the vehicles at the end of the lease contract, and therefore the proceeds that can be realised from eventual sale, can vary materially from these estimates.
Annual reviews are undertaken to reappraise residual values.
