Corporate governance report continued Reappointment of the external auditors Audit and accountability The committee recommended to the Board that the external auditors be Management has primary responsibility for developing and implementing reappointed following an assessment of the quality of service provided, internal control and risk management procedures and this duty extends including the qualications of the external auditors: the expertise and to all aspects of the business: strategic: commercial: operational and resources made available to the group: auditors independence and financial.
However, the Board also has a direct role to play in the the effectiveness of the audit process.
The decision was based on development of the groups internal controls and risk management consideration of reports issued by the external auditors and feedback systems, which is additional to its duty to oversee controls and risk from the Chief Financial officer and Group Financial Controller.
management procedures via the Audit Committee.
The key elements which make up a robust system of internal control in a business may be Auditor independence characterised by the business control environment: risk management The committee satisfied itself that the external auditors remain system and assurance processes.
independent having regard to the auditors procedures for maintaining and monitoring independence: the auditors policy for rotation of the Control environment lead partner and key audit personnel: and the introduction of a policy, The Board ensures that the group has a clear organisational structure which species areas of non-audit services that can be carried out by for the control and monitoring of its businesses, including dened lines the external auditors and the financial thresholds above which non-audit of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Board has approved services require the approval of the Chairman of the committee.
Any a Code of Business Conduct in 2006, which amongst other matters, individual fees in relation to non-audit services in excess of US$200,000 includes policies for the Company and its employees on health and and or any excess of the aggregate fees for non-audit services above safety: security: the environment: and areas of legal compliance.
The 50% of the annual audit fee require approval from the Chairman of the group has a procedure in place to ensure that employees may raise committee.
Within these parameters, where it is considered reasonable ethical concerns in confidence.
that the external auditors undertake non-audit services for sound commercial and practical reasons without inhibiting objectivity, then Risk management engagement is permitted.
Such services might include independent As the Audit Committees report previously explained, the group has an certication, reporting for FSA or UKLA purposes and tax advice.
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant The cost of services provided by the external auditors during the year risks faced by the group, which has been in place for the year under is detailed in note 4g to the financial statements.
Most of the cost of review and up to the date of this annual report and is in accordance non-audit services was associated with tax and assurance services with the Revised Turnbull guidance.
However, management is currently where involvement by the external auditors was considered appropriate reviewing the way in which it identies, evaluates and manages risks and in the best commercial interests of the group.
with a view to developing a single management forum in which risks to the group are recorded and appraised.
In addition, the Board is Environmental Committee considering the method by which it reviews such risks and is currently The Chairman of the Board, Rodney Chase, chairs the Environmental planning to form a Risk Committee.
Nevertheless, the directors are Committee, which was established by the Board in the second half of aware that its risk management systems cannot completely eliminate 2006.
The other members of the committee are Amjad Bseisu, Robin risks and thus there can never be an absolute assurance against the Pinchbeck and Maroun Semaan who are the Chief Executives of the group failing to achieve its objectives or a material loss arising.
Attendance at committee meetings is at the invitation of the Chairman and the Group director of Health, Safety, The groups current risk management systems require that, as part of Security and Environment is generally invited.
The Code does not require the Boards regular review of the groups strategic goals, consideration is the Board to form an environmental committee.
However, the Board given to those risks which have been identied as potential impediments recognises that the groups particular business activities have potentially to achieving the groups strategic objectives.
Each division is required significant implications for the environment and that these must be to produce a risk matrix which identies the key business risks, the given proper consideration both as part of the groups risk management probability of those risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and framework but also in the context of wider commercial considerations.
the actions being taken in order to manage and mitigate those risks.
The committee met twice during the year.
It has a remit to: The Board receives regular formal updates from management on the Advise the Board on the adoption and implementation of the groups key risks and the related controls in relation to the groups existing environmental policy business and, if appropriate, on potential new business.
Management Review the groups compliance with the policy thoroughly considers risks associated with undertaking new business Review the effectiveness of the Companys environmental management via divisional and group risk review committees.
systems, environmental targets and key performance indicators During the year, the committee adopted terms of reference: reviewed the Companys vision statement and policy regarding the environment: and agreed that each business division should establish baselines in respect of their current environmental impact as a precursor to establishing specic environmental programmes.
38 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006
