Directors remuneration report Good governance Information not subject to audit The Board and the committee consider that throughout 2006 and up The directors are not required under Jersey law to prepare a remuneration to the date hereof that the Company has complied with the provisions report but have chosen to do so.
This report sets out the remuneration of the Combined Code and the FSA Listing Rules.
policy and principles under which the directors and senior managers are remunerated and details the remuneration and share interests of Remuneration policy each director for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The directors have The committee aims to establish a level of remuneration, which is presented this information in accordance with the Listing Rules and the sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors and key executives United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
Shareholders will be invited to of the calibre required to achieve the groups objectives: and which approve this report at the annual general meeting.
furthermore, reects the size and complexity of the groups business together with an executives individual contribution and geographical The committee location.
The committee takes advice from independent external bodies The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Michael Press and comprises on the remuneration policies of companies whose turnover and or Kjell Almskog and Bernard fide Combret.
None of the directors has any business activities are similar to those of the group.
Having considered personal interest in the matters to be decided other than as shareholders this comparator group of companies, the committee generally seeks to of the Company, any potential conict of interest arising out of crossposition executives such that their overall remuneration is competitive directorships or any day to day involvement in the management of the whilst preserving the exibility to pay above mid-market for superior groups business activities.
The committee met five times during the results.
The committee last undertook a benchmarking review in mid year.
It has a remit to: 2005 and intends to undertake its next review during 2007.
Recommend to the Board the broad policy in respect of senior executive remuneration The committee is guided by the general principle that the overall Ensure that the levels of remuneration are appropriate in order to maximum remuneration of executive directors should be split broadly encourage enhanced performance equally between the following three components: basic salary: annual Approve the design and set the targets for any annual cash bonus cash bonus: and awards under the Performance Share Plan PSP.
scheme Review the design of all share incentive plans before approval by the Executive directors are entitled to accept up to one non-executive Board and shareholders and determine any performance conditions directorship outside and unconnected to the group provided prior and the overall amount of such awards permission is sought from the Board.
Any fees earned from such Set the remuneration of all executive directors and the Chairman an appointment are retained by the director.
During 2006, the Group Chief Executive, Ayman Asfari, attended Basic salary, cash allowances and non-cash benets meetings at the invitation of the Chairman in order to provide advice on Basic salary setting remuneration for other executive directors and senior management.
Ordinarily, the committee determines an executive directors basic salary He attended no part of a meeting at which his own remuneration was at the beginning of each year.
In 2006, the rate of increase for basic being discussed.
The Group Director of Legal and Commercial Affairs, salary increases for executive directors was between 5% and 7.1%.
Richard Milne, also attended meetings, again at the invitation of the Chairman, to provide advice in relation to the Companys share Cash allowances incentive schemes.
The committee has appointed Norton Rose to advise In addition to basic salary, UK resident executive directors receive in relation to the Companys share incentive schemes and Deloitte & a cash allowance in place of benets including, but not limited to Touche LLP to provide independent advice on remuneration matters.
car allowances and pension contributions.
None of the directors Both parties provided advice throughout 2006. are eligible to receive pension contributions from the Company.
The components of executive directors remuneration packages from 2007 will include the following elements: Element Purpose Performance period Methodology in determining award Basic salary and cash allowances To attract and retain Not applicable Role and contribution market Non-cash benets To attract and retain Not applicable Market standard for role and geographic location Annual cash bonus Maximum grant level of 100% of salary To incentivise delivery of One year Award subject to achievement of financial or 150% in exceptional circumstances performance goals for targets and personal objectives any financial year Awards in respect of 2006 ranged from 100% to 150% Share Incentive Scheme Performance Share Plan PSP Maximum grant level of 100% of salary Incentivises long-term value Three years 50% of awards are subject to total shareholder or 150% in exceptional circumstances creation and encourages return TSR ranking relative to an international executive share ownership peer group Awards made in 2006 were 75% of salary 50% of awards are subject to an achievement of Awards made in 2007 will be 100% of salary compound annual growth in Earnings Per Share EPS 40 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 In addition to basic salary, Maroun Semaan, as a UAE resident executive cash bonus are called Invested Shares.
Following such an award, director, is required by local statute to receive a cash sum included as the Company will generally grant the participant an additional award part of other long-term employment benets in the financial over a number of shares being a specified ratio to the number of his or statements from his employer on the termination of his employment her invested shares and these awards are called Matching Shares.
Accordingly, the Company accrues an amount each year.
Invested and matching share awards granted in April 2006 will vest subject to continued employment at the end of a three year period.
The Company introduced a cash allowance in respect of housing and No matching share awards were made to the executive directors in transport for Maroun Semaan at the start of the year: the Company 2006, although matching shares were awarded to senior management had previously paid these benets direct on behalf of Maroun Semaan.
Non-cash benets At this years annual general meeting, shareholders will be requested All executive directors receive certain benets-in-kind.
UK resident to approve a resolution to amend the DBSP rules such that, subject executive directors currently receive private health insurance, life to approval by the Remuneration Committee, invested and matching assurance and long-term disability insurance.
Maroun Semaan, who is share awards granted going forward including any grants made in resident in the UAE, receives similar benets as well as other benets 2007 prior to the passing of the resolution will vest one-third on the typical for expatriate senior executives such as education and return first anniversary of grant: two-thirds on the second anniversary of grant ights to his permanent home.
and three-thirds on the third anniversary of grant.
If executive directors are considered for DBSP participation in future years, the Company Annual cash bonus payments undertakes not to make matching awards to directors, unless such The committee considers whether or not to award each executive awards are subject to suitably stretching performance conditions and director an annual cash bonus for the previous year in the first quarter a deferral period of at least three years.
In its deliberations, the committee considers two principal elements in determining a directors cash bonus: Performance Share Plan First, the extent to which the groups financial performance, and, as Under the PSP, executive directors and a restricted number of other appropriate, the business division for which the individual director is senior executives may receive performance related share awards on primarily responsible, have achieved annually established budgets an annual basis.
Participants are granted contingent awards to receive and targets ordinary shares in the Company which will in normal circumstances vest Second, to what extent the individual has met personal objectives, after three years subject to the continued employment of the participant which are agreed at the start of each year in question and which are and to the extent that performance conditions have been satisfied.
established with the aim of achieving the groups business strategy Three years was selected as the performance period under the PSP, as it is considered to be an appropriate long-term time horizon for both The committee set the maximum bonus potential at 100% of basic performance measurement and retention.
annual salary for achievement of corporate and personal targets but retained the ability to increase this to 150% of basic annual salary in The initial market value of the shares over which any such award is exceptional circumstances.
Cash bonus awards in respect of 2006 made to any participant in any financial year may not exceed 100% of to executive directors ranged from 100% to 150% of salary due to basic annual salary or, in circumstances which the committee deems exceptional performance at both group and divisional level.
to be exceptional, 150% of basic annual salary.
Actual cash bonuses for the year are disclosed in the table set out The committee believes that PSP performance conditions should on page 44 and taken in conjunction with awards to directors under strike a balance between achieving alignment with ultimate shareholder the Companys Performance Share Plan, reect the Remuneration returns and reward for delivery of strong underlying performance, the Committees assessment of each directors achievement of his objectives latter being more directly under the control of senior management.
in 2006 and his contribution to the groups performance in the year.
Details of awards to directors under the Companys Performance Share As the Company was listed in October 2005 and the first awards Plan are outlined on page 44 of this report.
were made in 2006, the committee did not deem it appropriate to review share scheme arrangements at this time.
Share incentive schemes Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP Vesting of PSP grants made in 2006 were made subject to two In 2005, executive directors and selected senior management participated performance measures: in the DBSP.
Under this plan, participants were invited, or in some cases required, to defer a proportion of their annual cash bonus for i Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to an index against a 2005 into Company shares although the shares were not awarded until comparator group of 17 UK and international companies for 50% April 2006. of the award: and ii Earnings Per Share EPS growth relative to predened targets for It is the Companys intention that executive directors will no longer 50% of the award.
participate in the DBSP, although selected senior management will continue to do so.
No awards to executive directors have been made The committee believes that relative TSR remains the best measure under the plan in respect of cash bonus awards made for 2006.
Details of the Companys ultimate delivery of shareholder returns and that of awards to directors under the Companys DBSP are disclosed in the EPS is the internal financial measure that is most closely linked to 2005 comparator gures in the table on page 44 of this report.
value creation in an oil & gas services business.
Under the plan, the shares which are acquired with a participants TSR is the percentage return in a given period to a purchaser of an 41 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006
