Corporate governance report 1 6 Committee see key below B NA E R The Company is incorporated in Jersey, where there is no formal Code relating to corporate governance.
The Board is strongly committed to Total number of meetings 10 4625 the principles of corporate governance contained in the 2003 Combined Rodney Chase Code on Corporate Governance the Code annexed to the Listing Rules Chairman 10 4 C n a 2 C n a of the Financial Services Authority FSA and for which the Board is 2 Kjell Almskog accountable to shareholders.
The Code seeks to ensure that the Company Non-executive director 9 4 6 n a 5 is run in a manner whereby the interests of shareholders are protected Bernard fide Combret and as such the Code sets out principles of good governance together Non-executive director 10 4 6 C n a 5 with specic provisions.
3 Michael Press Non-executive director 9 4 6 n a 5 C Statement of compliance with the provisions of good governance The directors consider that throughout 2006 and up to the date hereof, Ayman Asfari the Company has applied the principles and fully complied with the Group Chief Executive 10 4 n a n a n a 4 provisions of the Code.
Keith Roberts Chief Financial officer 9 n a n a n a n a Role of the Board 5 Maroun Semaan The Board is responsible to shareholders for the leadership of the Chief Executive, group and for safeguarding the Companys reputation.
The Board has Engineering & Construction 9 n a n a 2 n a a formal schedule of matters reserved to itself for decision, including, Key but not limited to, matters of a strategic nature: approval of the annual B Board budget: approval of major acquisitions, investments and disposals: C Chairman N Nominations Committee major changes to the groups capital structure: the preparation of A Audit Committee financial statements: the recommendation or declaration of dividends: E Environmental Committee the entry into contracts which are deemed to be material strategically or R Remuneration Committee by reason of size: succession planning and appointments to the Board: N. B. n a means that the specified director is not a member of the committee although he may attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman.
executive remuneration: ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal controls: reviewing its own and its committees performance 1 In addition to the ten full board meetings, there were two board meetings, in March 2006 and September 2006, attended by some of the non-executive directors, for the final and reviewing the groups overall corporate governance arrangements.
approval of the year-end and interim results, respectively.
The results had previously been considered by the full Board.
Board membership, attendance and independence 2 Kjell Almskog missed one telephone board meeting due to a conict in his schedule.
3 Michael Press missed one telephone board meeting due to a conict in his schedule.
The current membership of the Board and the significant commitments 4 Keith Roberts missed one telephone board meeting due to a conict in his schedule.
of the directors are stated on pages 34 and 35, which record the names 5 Maroun Semaan missed one telephone board meeting due to a conict in his schedule.
of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Senior Independent 6 The Environmental Committee membership consists of two members of the Board and two members of senior management.
The names of the chairmen and members of each of the Nominations, Audit, Environmental and Remuneration Committees are The Board considers all three non-executive directors which expression stated in the reports of those committees.
excludes the Chairman to be independent in character and judgement and is not aware of any relationships or circumstances which are likely The Board met ten times during the year of which six meetings had to affect, or could appear to affect the judgement of any of them.
The been scheduled well in advance.
Specic business which had arisen extensive knowledge and experience of the non-executive directors due to the commercial demands of the group, and which needed to combined with the focus and experience of the Chairman and executive be addressed between scheduled board meetings, was dealt with directors enable the Board to lead and give direction to the group without at four special board meetings conducted by conference telephone.
any imbalance that may allow any individual or group of individuals to The agenda for each scheduled board meeting allows the Chairman dominate its decision making.
Any director having a concern in this or and non-executive directors to meet without executives present.
The any other regard may raise it with the Chairman or the Senior Independent agenda and appropriate supporting board papers are distributed by Director.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary the Secretary to the Board on a timely basis, usually a week in advance to the Board, who is responsible for ensuring that board procedures of each board meeting.
In addition, the Board attended a strategy and and applicable rules and regulations are observed and for advising the business planning day with members of senior management.
Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
The directors are entitled to take independent professional advice, at the Companys Attendance by the directors at the meetings of the Board and its expense, if required.
committees are summarised in the table above.
36 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006
