Assurances The Board receives regular feedback from analysts and major In addition to reports from the Audit Committee, the directors receive shareholders, compiled by the Companys brokers and financial PR assurances from the following internal and external controls: consultants, in particular following presentations and meetings after the Historical financial performance and revised forecasts for the full publication of financial results.
year with analyses of significant variances are regularly reported by management to the Board The principal method of communicating with the majority of shareholders Reports from the recently established Environmental Committee is via the annual report and accounts and the Companys website Client audits which contains details of financial presentations to analysts and other External audits including management letters from the groups information about the group.
All shareholders have the opportunity to auditors attend the annual general meeting.
All directors were present at the Reports and presentations to the Board by senior management 2006 annual general meeting and all both current and to be appointed including the Group Head of Legal and Commercial Affairs, the at the meeting intend to be present at the 2007 annual general meeting Group Head of Health, Safety, Security and the Environment, to answer shareholders questions.
Details of the meeting are set out in the Group Head of Insurance and the Group Head of Tax the Notice of Meeting which is sent to shareholders, and which contains Reports from the Group Internal Audit function the text of resolutions to be proposed and explanatory notes, where necessary.
Shareholders attending will be advised of the number of Induction, training and performance evaluation proxy votes lodged for each resolution, in the categories for and The Board implemented a process for identifying individual training against, together with the number of votes withheld.
All resolutions needs of directors during the year with the intention that a formal will be voted on by taking a poll, the results of which will be announced programme of training will be implemented in 2007.
The Board will to the London Stock Exchange.
take care to ensure that any particular needs of the two new directors to be recommended for appointment at the forthcoming annual general significant shareholders meeting will be addressed.
Interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital which have been notied to the Company, in accordance with the Articles of Association An assessment of the Board, its members and committees was of the Company as at 12 February 2007 were as follows: conducted by an external consultant, Strategic Resource, in 2006.
Percentage of This evaluation was undertaken by meetings with directors and senior Number of allotted share management and included attendance at a board meeting.
Strategic ordinary shares capital Resource reviewed the Board agenda and those areas on which the Petrofac ESOP Trustees Limited 27,483,638 7.96% Board should focus during its meetings: the respective roles of the Alima Trust 21,355,157 6.19% executive and non-executive directors: Board procedures and Resolution Asset Management Limited 10,996,587 3.19% administration: and the operation of the Boards Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The results were considered by the Chairman at the end of 2006 and action points will be agreed with the Petrofac ESOP Trustees Limited includes certain interests of certain Board.
Michael Press, the Senior Independent Director, led a separate directors and senior employees as well as other employees.
In addition evaluation of the Chairman through a series of questionnaire led to the above, Ayman Asfari and Maroun Semaan together with their interviews with other members of the Board and senior management.
respective families held significant interests, details of which are disclosed Board evaluation will continue on an annual basis.
in the directors remuneration report on page 45.
Retirement and re-election Going concern In accordance with the Companys constitution, directors are required The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern to submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
basis since the directors have reasonable expectation that, rstly, the Kjell Almskog, Bernard fide Combret and Michael Press, being the Companys and groups activities are sustainable and, secondly, that longest serving directors, will retire and offer themselves for re-election adequate resources are available to continue in operational existence at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The Board supports the for the foreseeable future.
re-election of all three directors.
Dialogue with shareholders and research analysts The Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial officer and Group Head of Investor Relations have regular meetings with major shareholders and research analysts.
The Chairman has advised major shareholders, in writing, of his availability along with the Senior Independent Director should there be issues which the shareholders wish to discuss.
39 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006
