20 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Directors Report continued enhanced with a custom made module in competency based interviewing Substantial shareholdings aimed at improving managers and supervisors selection skills.
Access to At 10th April 2006 the Company had been notied of the following interests the highly successful on-line learning centre was increased to enable 4,000 amounting to 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued ordinary share employees to participate in the range of programmes it provides.
capital: A formal job grading system exists across the Group to assist remuneration % practices as well as career development and organisational planning The Capital Group Co Inc. 16.85 processes.
Prudential plc 10.76 Employees are informed of the performance of the Group and a structured Fidelity Investments 7.87 communication programme allows factors affecting their employment to be Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc 3.69 discussed.
Legal and General plc 3.11 Working in close co-operation with elected representatives from its European operating companies, the Groups European Works Council Independent Auditors The Premier Farnell European Forum is in its sixth year of operation.
The Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as Auditors and to Forum provides an arena for the exchange of relevant and appropriate authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at information and constructive dialogue between management and the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
A similar Forum, specic to the UK, was established and met for the first time in 2005.
Annual General Meeting The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, with regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
The notice convening the Companys 2006 Annual General Meeting at 25 28 Old Burlington Street, London on 13th June 2006 at 10.30 a. m. is Efforts are made to continue the employment of those who become disabled during their employment.
Training, career development and set out in a separate document issued to shareholders.
promotion are, as far as practicable, identical for all employees according By order of the Board to their skills and abilities.
The Group consistently seeks to recruit, develop Steven Webb and employ throughout the organisation suitably qualied, capable and experienced people, irrespective of age, race, religion or sexual orientation.
Secretary Farnell House Employees participation in the Groups performance is encouraged Forge Lane through the Groups UK savings-related share option scheme.
Leeds LS12 2NE 16th March 2006 Environment The Group recognises the importance of responsible environmental management and its obligation to protect the environment.
The Group therefore gives high priority to all environmental matters.
Further information appears in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Operating and Financial Review.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that reports of the Auditors set out on pages 64 and 75, is made with a view to disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements directors and of the Auditors in relation to the financial statements.
comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the irregularities.
Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year.
The 2006 Annual Report will be published on the Companys web site in addition to the normal paper version.
The Directors are responsible for The Directors consider that in preparing the Consolidated Financial the maintenance and integrity of the Companys web site and the work Statements on pages 30 to 63 and the Company Financial Statements on carried out by the Auditors does not include consideration of these matters.
pages 65 to 74, the Company and Group have used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of judgments and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
