66 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Accounting Policies Company Financial Statements Basis of preparation The financial statements of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
A summary of the more important accounting policies of the Company, which the Directors consider to be the most appropriate, is set out below together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Changes in accounting policies The Company has adopted the following accounting standards during the year: FRS 17, Retirement Benets FRS 20, Share-based Payment FRS 21, Events after the Balance Sheet Date FRS 25, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation FRS 26, Financial Instruments: Measurement FRS 28, Corresponding Amounts The adoption of FRS 17 did not require any change in comparative gures.
The adoption of FRS 20 and FRS 21 represented changes in accounting policies and the comparative gures have been restated accordingly.
The effect of the change in accounting policy to adopt FRS 20 has resulted in an increase in staff costs of 1.0 million 2005: 1.3 million and a corresponding credit direct to reserves.
The adoption of FRS 21 has resulted in an increase in shareholders funds of 18.1 million at 30th January 2005 due to the reversal of the proposed, final, ordinary dividend at 30th January 2005, which was recognised in the current year.
The final proposed ordinary dividend for the current year of 18.1 million will be recognised in the following year, once approved.
The effect of the change in accounting policy on adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26 was to reclassify preference shares as debt, the debt element being 110.2 million at 29th January 2006 31st January 2005: 106.3 million, and the preference dividend of 6.7 million as a finance cost.
Exemption has been taken from the need to restate comparatives.
FRS 28 sets out the requirements for disclosure of corresponding amounts and has been applied where applicable.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the income statement.
Retirement benets Employees of the Company are able to participate in the Premier Farnell UK Pension Scheme, comprising both a dened benefit and a dened contribution plan.
The assets of the plan are held separately from those of the Company in an independently administered fund.
Dened benefit plan The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as permitted by FRS 17, accounts for the plan as if it were a dened contribution plan.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include full disclosures of the UK dened benefit plan in accordance with IFRS which is similar to FRS 17 note 27.
Dened contribution plan Payments to the dened contribution plan are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Deferred taxation Full provision is made, on an undiscounted basis, for deferred taxation resulting from timing differences between the profits computed for taxation purposes and profits stated in the accounts to the extent that there is an obligation to pay more tax in the future as a result of the reversal of those timing differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are expected to be recoverable.
Financial instruments The Company has taken advantage of the transitional arrangements for financial instruments under FRS 25 and has thus not restated corresponding amounts.
Corresponding amounts for year ended 30th January 2005 are presented and disclosed in accordance with the requirements of FRS 13.
Prior to 31st January 2005 the Companys cumulative, convertible, redeemable preference shares nominal value 7.6 million were included within shareholders funds and the preference dividend shown as a deduction from profit after tax.
Under FRS 25, such preference shares are required to be split into debt and equity components with the preference dividend being reclassied as a finance cost.
The fair value of the debt element is established on issue of the shares, based on the discounted cashows of the instrument to the date of maturity and is then increased each year on a straight line basis through the income statement in order to arrive at the redemption amount payable on maturity of the shares.
The equity component is 19.9 million and will only change as and when shares are redeemed.
At 29th January 2006, the debt element of the preference shares was 110.2 million 31st January 2005: 106.3 million.
The accounting for the Companys preference shares in accordance with FRS 25 is identical to that under IAS 39, further details for which are given in note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 67 Financial instruments continued The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from nancing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Company does not have or issue speculative derivative arrangements.
All transactions in financial instruments are matched to an underlying business requirement.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resulting gain or loss will depend upon the nature of the item being hedged see accounting policy on hedging.
The fair value of forward currency contracts has been determined based upon market forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of short-term deposits, loans and overdrafts with maturities of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values.
The fair value of the Companys US dollar Guaranteed Senior Notes has been estimated using quoted market prices for similar instruments.
The fair value of the Companys preference shares is based on the quoted market price.
Hedging Cashow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassied into profit or loss in the same period s during which the interest income expense is recognised.
For other cashow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period s as which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined as an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
The gain or loss on any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Share-based payments The accounting for share-based payments is identical to IFRS 2, full details of which are given in the Accounting Policies and note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The adoption of FRS 20 represented a change in accounting policy.
The impact on the prior year is to reduce the pre-tax profit by 1.3 million.
Ordinary share capital Ordinary share capital is classied as equity and dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved.
Cashow The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosing a cash ow statement under Financial Reporting Standard 1 revised.
