Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 33 Accounting Policies Consolidated Financial Statements Premier Farnell plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The address of the Companys registered ofce is Farnell House, Forge Lane, Leeds, LS12 2NE, England.
The Companys registered number is 876412.
These Consolidated Financial Statements have been approved by the Board of Directors on 16th March 2006.
Basis of preparation These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention with the exception of derivative financial instruments which are recognised at fair value.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements is set out below, together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the financial year.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
At the year end, the following Standards are Interpretations relevant to the Group, but which had not been adopted, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Amended IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Amended IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specic Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the above Standards and Interpretations in future periods will not have a significant impact on the Groups financial results.
The financial statements of the Company, which have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, are presented on pages 65 to 74.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
First time adoption of IFRS These are the Groups first Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Accordingly, IFRS 1, First Time Adoption of IFRS revised 2004, has been applied.
IFRS 1 permits companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take exemptions from applying the full requirements of IFRS to certain items.
In preparing these financial statements, the Group has taken the following exemptions: Business combinations Business combinations prior to the Groups transition date to IFRS 2nd February 2004 have not been restated to an IFRS basis.
Employee benets All cumulative actuarial gains and losses relating to employee benefit schemes have been recognised in equity at the date of transition to IFRS.
Cumulative translation difference IFRS requires amounts taken to reserves on the retranslation of foreign subsidiaries to be recorded in a separate translation reserve.
The Group has taken the option to assume that cumulative translation differences are set to zero at the transition date.
Financial instruments As permitted, the implementation of IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, was adopted prospectively from 31st January 2005.
As a result, financial instruments for the year ended 30th January 2005 have been accounted and presented in accordance with UK GAAP.
The main impact of this exemption is that the Groups cumulative, convertible, redeemable preference shares continued to be classied as shareholders funds during the year ended 30th January 2005.
Effective 31st January 2005, these preference shares were split into debt and equity components in accordance with IAS 39, and the preference dividend reclassied as a finance cost.
Further details are given in note 15.
Share-based payments The Group has chosen not to adopt the exemption to apply IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, only to awards made after 7th November 2002.
A full retrospective approach has been followed on all awards granted but not vested at the date of transition.
Further details regarding the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 29.
Early adoption of standards The Group has early adopted IAS 19 revised 2004, Employee Benets, which allows actuarial gains and losses to be accounted for through the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense see accounting policy for post-retirement benets.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the results of the Company and each of its subsidiaries for the financial year ended 29th January 2006.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group where control is deemed to exist when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the date the control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
34 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Accounting Policies Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business combinations and goodwill All business acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration paid exceeds the fair value attributed to the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1st February 1998 and prior to the transition date to IFRS was capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful life.
As a result of the transition to IFRS, such amortisation ceased on the transition date to IFRS.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made prior to 1st February 1998 was written off directly to reserves in the year of acquisition.
Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3 such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves and will not be written back to the income statement in the event of a disposal.
Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods to outside customers, excluding value added and sales taxes, and is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to a third party.
Segment reporting A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products business segment, or in providing products within a particular economic environment geographic segment, and where the risks and returns are different between components.
Catalogue and advertising costs Catalogue costs are expensed over the life of the catalogue up to a maximum period of one year.
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
Expense classication Cost of sales comprises the cost of goods delivered to customers including the cost of freight, packaging and inventory adjustments.
Distribution costs represent all operating expenses including sales, marketing, product and purchasing, warehousing, information technology and electronic commerce.
Administrative expenses comprise the cost of central head ofce and the Group Board.
Foreign currency translation Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the financial period.
Exchange profits or losses on trading transactions are included in the Group income statement except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash ow hedges or qualifying net investment hedges, which, along with other exchange differences arising from non-trading items are dealt with through reserves.
The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: income and expenses for each income statement are translated at the average exchange rate for the period: and with effect from the transition date to IFRS all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity and included in the Groups cumulative translation reserve.
When a foreign entity is sold, such translation differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, nancing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not have or issue speculative derivative arrangements.
All transactions in financial instruments are matched to an underlying business requirement.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resulting gain or loss will depend upon the nature of the item being hedged see accounting policy on hedging.
Hedging Cashow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassied into profit or loss in the same period s during which the interest income expense is recognised.
For other cashow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period s as which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined as an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
The gain or loss on any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 35 Leases The costs of operating leases are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
Dilapidation provisions The Group is required to perform dilapidation repairs on leased properties prior to the properties being vacated at the end of their lease term.
Provision for such costs are made where a legal obligation is identied and the liability can be reasonably quantied.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of the individual assets, less the estimated residual value, from the time it becomes operational by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
Depreciation rates are principally as follows: Freehold land not depreciated Freehold buildings 50 years Plant and equipment between 5 and 10 years Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software and includes capitalised internal labour where appropriate.
These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, between three and five years.
Other intangible assets acquired through business combinations are recognised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Contractually-based customer relationships 20 years Patents 18 years Tradenames acquired are not amortised as they are deemed to have an indefinite life.
Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed annually, or when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable, to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and if the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount, a loss is recognised in the income statement.
The recoverable amount is the greater of the assets net selling price and value in use where value in use is based on the present value of the estimated future cashows arising from the asset.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of a past event subsequent to the assets initial recognition.
The Group assesses whether objective evidence exists for each financial asset or group of financial assets at the balance sheet date to determine whether any impairment has arisen.
Post-retirement benets The Group accounts for pensions and other post-retirement benets in accordance with IAS 19 revised 2004, Employee Benets.
Pensions The Group operates both dened benefit and dened contribution pension plans.
In respect of dened benefit plans where the amount of pension is dened, usually based on factors such as age, years of service and compensation, the net asset or obligation of each plan at the balance sheet date is calculated by a qualied actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The obligation is calculated by discounting the amount of future benets that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
An allowance is made for scheme expenses and non-service related benets.
Plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The net income statement credit charge comprises principally the service cost, which is spread systematically over the lives of the employees, and the finance income costs, which are recognised in the period in which they arise.
The net income statement impact is credited charged in arriving at operating profit.
All actuarial gains and losses at the date of transition to IFRS have been recognised in equity at that date.
Following the early adoption of IAS 19 revised 2004, actuarial gains and losses that arise subsequent to the transition date to IFRS in calculating the Groups obligation in respect of each plan, are recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Payments to dened contribution pension plans where the Group pays xed contributions into a separate entity are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Other post-retirement benets In the US, the Group provides unfunded post-retirement medical benets to certain US employees.
The expected costs of these benets are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for dened benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
36 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Accounting Policies Consolidated Financial Statements continued Share-based payments The Group operates three share-based incentive schemes: an executive share option scheme, a long-term incentive plan LTIP and a save as you earn SAYE scheme.
These are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, which requires an expense to be recognised in the income statement for all three schemes over the vesting period.
The expense is based on the fair value of each instrument at the grant date, using option pricing models.
The expense is credited to retained earnings.
For valuation of share options the Binominal Lattice model is used and, as the performance measure is non-market based earnings per share growth, the value of the expense is adjusted to reect expected and actual levels of vesting.
For the LTIP, the Monte Carlo model is used and, as the performance conditions are market-based share price performance relative to the FTSE mid-250 Index, the expense is not adjusted except for forfeitures.
The fair value of SAYE grants are calculated using the Black Scholes model and the expense is only adjusted to reect forfeitures.
The Group has chosen not to adopt the exemption under IFRS 1 relating to share-based payments.
Consequently, in calculating the expense, a full retrospective approach has been followed on all awards granted but not vested at the date of transition to IFRS.
Share capital Ordinary share capital is classied as equity and dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved.
Prior to 31st January 2005, the Groups cumulative, convertible, redeemable preference shares were classied as equity and the associated dividend recognised on an accruals basis as a deduction from profit after tax.
With effect from 31st January 2005, following the adoption of IAS 39, the Groups preference shares are split into debt and equity components, with the associated dividend being recognised on an accrual basis in the income statement as a finance cost.
The fair value of the debt element is established on issue of the shares, based on the discounted cash ows of the instrument to the date of maturity, and is then increased each year on a straight line basis through the income statement in order to arrive at the redemption amount payable on maturity of the shares.
The equity component will only change as and when shares are redeemed.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a first in first out basis.
Cost comprises all expenditure, including related production overheads where appropriate, incurred in the normal course of business in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition at the balance sheet date.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less any selling costs.
Provision is made against slow moving and obsolete inventory where appropriate.
Taxation including deferred tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Investment in own shares Shares acquired by the Premier Farnell Performance Share Plan are shown as a reduction in shareholders funds.
The cost of administering the trust are borne by the Company as incurred.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at cost.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short-term deposits repayable on demand and available within one day without penalty.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash ow statement.
Research and development Expenditure on research activities undertaken with the prospect of gaining new technical knowledge and understanding is expensed in the income statement as incurred.
