111 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights Premier Foods plc the Company will be held on Thursday issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour of 10 May 2007 at 11.00am at Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively London EC1A 9HQ, to consider the following resolutions: attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective number Ordinary resolutions of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by them, subject Resolution 1 to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors That the report of the directors and auditors, and the audited may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2006 entitlements, legal or practical problems arising in any be received.
overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and Resolution 2 b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a That the final dividend of 2.55p per ordinary share in the Company above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of recommended by the directors be declared and be payable on 422,013: 6 July 2007 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 8 June 2007. and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of this resolution.
The Resolution 3 Company may before such an expiry make an offer or agreement That the directors remuneration report for the year ended which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after 31 December 2006 be approved.
such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities under such an offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
Resolution 4 That Louise Makin be re-elected as a director.
By order of the Board Resolution 5 That David Felwick be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 6 That Ian McHoul be re-elected as a director.
Andrew Astin Resolution 7 That  LLP be reappointed auditors of the Company Secretary Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general Premier Foods plc meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and that Premier House their remuneration be fixed by the directors.
Centrium Business Park Griffiths Way Resolution 8 St Albans That the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised Hertfordshire under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot relevant AL1 2RE securities as defined in that Act up to an aggregate nominal value of 2,813,418.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of 10 April 2007 the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of this resolution.
However, before this authority expires, the Company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities under such an offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
Special resolutions Resolution 9 That, provided that resolution 8 in the notice of this meeting has been passed, the directors be empowered under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities as defined in that Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by that resolution as if section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this authority shall be limited to: 112 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Recommendation Resolutions 8 and 9: Your directors are of the opinion that the resolutions to be Authority to allot shares and disapplication pre-emption rights.
proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests Under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, the directors cannot of shareholders as a whole and recommend you to vote in generally allot shares in the Company unless they are authorised favour of them.
They will be doing so in respect of their own to do so by the Company in general meeting.
authorise the directors to allot new shares up to a nominal value of 2,813,418 representing one third of the issued share capital of Explanation of resolutions the Company as at the date of this notice.
The authority will expire Resolution 1: To receive the report and accounts at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier The directors are required to present to the meeting the directors 15 months from the date of passing of this resolution.
The directors and auditors reports and the accounts for the year ended have no present intention of issuing shares, except as needed to 31 December 2006. satisfy the exercise of options under the Companys employee share schemes.
Resolution 2: To declare a dividend The proposed 2006 final dividend of 2.55p per share will be If shares are to be allotted for cash, section 89 of the Companies paid on 6 July 2007 to shareholders who are on the register on Act 1985 requires those shares to be offered first to existing 8 June 2007.
The final dividend will be paid in cash to all shareholders in proportion to the number of shares held by them.
This right of shareholders is commonly known as a pre-emption right.
Under resolution 14, the directors will remain subject to Resolution 3: To approve the directors remuneration constraints on the issue of shares for cash.
Unless they comply with report of the Company.
the pre-emption procedure under section 89 of the Companies Act, The Board is required to present the directors remuneration report they will be able to issue such shares for cash only: to shareholders for approval at the meeting.
The remuneration report is set out on pages 50 to 60.
The Board considers that in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive appropriate executive remuneration plays a vital part in helping offer or, to achieve the Companys overall objectives.
The vote will have up to 422,013, representing approximately 5% of the nominal advisory status in respect of the remuneration policy and overall value of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of remuneration packages and is not specific to individual levels of this notice.
Resolutions 4: To re-elect Louise Makin.
Article 115 of the Companys Articles of Association allows the Board to appoint a person to the Board during the year, subject to them being re-elected at the subsequent Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly Dr. Louise Makin offers herself for re-election.
Resolutions 5 & 6: To re-elect David Felwick and Ian McHoul.
Article 124 of the Companys Articles of Association requires one third of the directors to retire and offer themselves for re-election.
Each of the directors, except Dr Louise Makin were originally elected to the Board at the time of the IPO: 19th July 2004 and the Board has agreed that the above named directors should offer themselves for re-election at the 2007 annual general meeting.
Directors biographical details are shown on page 6.
Resolution 7: To reappoint  LLP as auditors.
This resolution proposes the reappointment of  LLP as auditors, and permits the directors to fix their remuneration.
113 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Attendance and voting Before posting the form to the registrar, please check that you Only those shareholders who are registered on the Companys have signed it.
In the case of joint holders, any of you may sign it.
share register at 6.00 pm on 8 May 2007 shall be entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting and to vote in respect of the number The register of directors interests and copies of their service of shares registered in their names at that time.
Changes to contracts or letters of appointment will be available for inspection entries on the share register after 6.00 pm on 8 May 2007 shall be at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or between the date of this notice and the Annual General Meeting vote at the meeting.
Please bring with you the accompanying and at the venue of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes Admission Card.
It will facilitate your right to attend, speak and prior to the commencement of the meeting until its conclusion.
vote, and will speed your admission.
Please keep it until the end of the meeting.
The meeting will commence at 11.00am and light refreshments will be available from 10.30am and also after the Premier Foods plc conclusion of the meeting.
Premier House Centrium Business Park Whether or not you intend to attend the Annual General Meeting, Griffiths Way you are requested to complete the enclosed Form of Proxy and St Albans return it to the Companys registrars at the following address: Hertfordshire Response Licence No.
SEA 10855, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The AL1 2RE Causeway, Worthing BN99 6ZX as soon as possible and in any event so as to be received no later than 11.00am on 8 May 2007.
Any Form of Proxy received after this time will be void.
The completion and submission of a Form of Proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting in person if you so wish.
You may also find it helpful to bring your Annual Report with you so that you can refer to it at the meeting.
If you do not wish, or are unable, to attend, you may appoint either the Chairman of the meeting or one or more persons of your choice to act on your behalf and to vote in the event of a poll.
That person is known as a proxy.
You are advised to use the enclosed Form of Proxy to appoint a proxy.
A proxy need not be a shareholder and may attend and vote on behalf of the shareholder who appointed him or her.
At the meeting, the proxy can act for the member he or she represents.
This includes the right to join in or demand a poll.
The proxy is also valid for any adjournment of the meeting.
Please mark the appropriate box alongside each resolution on the Form of Proxy to indicate whether you wish your votes to be cast for, or against, or whether you wish to withhold your vote from, that resolution.
Unless you give specific instructions on how to vote on a particular resolution, your proxy will be able, at his or her discretion, either to vote for or against that resolution or to withhold from voting.
Financial highlights TURNOVER 959.4m 2005: 789.7 million TRADING PROFIT 132.5m The cover of this report is printed on Think 4 white which is produced 2005: 107.3 million with 100% ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp that is fully recyclable OPERATING PROFIT and sourced from carefully managed and renewed commercial forests, certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Stewardship 97.6m Council.
This material contains 50% post consumer recycled fibre.
2005: 95.3 million Pages 1-8 and 35-114 are printed on Think 4 Bright and pages 9-34 EARNINGS PER SHARE CONTINUING are printed on Regency Satin which are produced with 100% ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp that is fully recyclable and sourced 12.7p from carefully managed and renewed commercial forests, certified 2005: 11.9 pence in accordance with the FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
DIVIDENDS PER SHARE All manufactured within a mill which is registered under the British 12.0p quality standard of BS EN ISO 9001-2000 and the environmental 2005: 11.25 pence standard of ISO 14001.
Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140 www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2006 PREMIER FOODS PLC Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts Premier House Centrium Business Park 2006 Griffiths Way St Albans Hertfordshire AL1 2RE T 01727 815850 F 01727 815982 www.
