68 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the financial statements 1.
General information Premier Foods plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office and principal place of business is identified on page 36.
The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group, is the supply of branded and own label grocery products, as described in note 16.
These Group consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2007.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Premier Foods plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and on the historical cost basis with the exception of derivative financial instruments that are incorporated using fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 3.
New standards and interpretations not applied.
During the year ended 31 December 2006, the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Effective for accounting periods beginning on or after: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 IFRS 8 Operating segments 1 January 2009 IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements : Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007 International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies 1 March 2006 IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 1 May 2006 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives 1 June 2006 IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment 1 November 2006 IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions 1 March 2007 IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 1 January 2008 These standards will be adopted by the Group in future accounting periods.
These interpretations are not currently applicable to the Group, however, will be applied by the Group in future periods.
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of any of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group's financial statements.
Certain of these standards and interpretations will require additional disclosures over and above those currently included in these financial statements in the period of initial application.
