73 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 3.
Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements The following are areas of particular significance to the Groups financial statements and include the application of judgement, which is fundamental to the compilation of a set of financial statements.
3.1 Pensions The present value of the Group's pension obligations depends on a number of actuarial assumptions.
The primary assumptions used include the expected long-term rate of return on invested funds, the discount rate applicable to scheme liabilities, the long-term rate of inflation and estimates of the mortality applicable to scheme members.
At each reporting date, and on a continuous basis, the Group reviews the macro-economic and company specific factors influencing each of these assumptions, using professional advice, in order to record the Group's ongoing commitment and obligation to defined benefit schemes in accordance with IFRS.
The Group is aware of, and alert to, the need to inform the Pensions Regulator to the extent that the Group is involved in any corporate activity that affects the rights of pension scheme members and the carrying value of the pension schemes.
Each of the underlying assumptions is set out in more detail in note 24.
3.2 Goodwill and other intangible assets Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill are performed annually unless an event indicates that an impairment review is necessary.
Impairment reviews in respect of intangible assets are performed when an event indicates that an impairment review is necessary.
Examples of such triggering events include a significant planned restructuring, a major change in market conditions or technology, expectations of future operating losses, or a significant reduction in cash flows.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units are determined based on the higher of realisable value and value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates.
Acquired trademarks, brands, recipes and similar assets are considered to have finite lives that range from 20 to 40 years.
The determination of the useful lives takes into account certain quantitative factors such as sales expectations and growth prospects, and also many qualitative factors such as history and heritage, and market positioning, hence the determination of useful lives are subject to estimates and judgement.
For further details see note 14.
3.3 Advertising and promotion costs Trade spend and promotional activity is dependent on market conditions and negotiations with customers.
Trade spend is charged to the income statement according to the substance of the agreements with customers and the terms of any contractual relationship.
Promotional support is generally charged to the income statement at the time of the relevant promotion.
These costs may be accrued based on best estimates.
The actual costs may not be known until subsequent years when negotiations with customers are concluded.
Such adjustments are recognised in the year when final agreement is reached.
Expenditure on advertising is charged to the income statement when incurred, except where a particular campaign is used more than once.
In this case it is charged in line with the airtime profile.
3.4 Exceptional items Exceptional items are not explicitly addressed under IFRS.
Accordingly, the Group has defined exceptional items as those items of financial significance to be disclosed separately in order to assist in understanding the financial performance achieved and in making projections of future results.
Each of these items relate to events or circumstances that are non-recurring in nature, such as a major restructuring or integration of an acquisition.
