104 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the financial statements continued 31.
Contingencies Jonker Fris BV On 8 December 2005 the Group completed the sale of its Netherlands based subsidiary Jonker Fris BV.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Group is entitled to receive 50% of any net disposal proceeds resulting from the disposal of two properties, which were transferred to the acquirer, if sold within two years from date of completion.
Should either property remain unsold at this date, the Group is entitled to receive 1.0m per property from the acquirer, or has an option to purchase the properties for an amount of 1.0m per property.
The Group has not recognised any amounts in its financial statements due to the uncertainty of the potential net disposal proceeds.
Executives and senior managements service contracts In the event of early termination of the service contracts for executives and senior management for reasons other than those justifying summary termination, the Group may but is not obliged to pay a sum equal to annual salary plus benefits, pension contributions, and on target bonuses on a pro rata basis.
There were no other material contingent liabilities at 31 December 2006.
"Related party transactions Transactions with Burton's Foods Limited ""Burton's"" The following transactions with Burtons are shown for comparative purposes only."
No related party transactions exist during the year due to Mr Schofield resigning as director and non-executive chairman of Burtons on 31 December 2005.
"Cadbury Biscuits Agreement Premier Brands Limited, Premier International Foods UK Limited, Chivers Hartley Limited, Burton's, Cadbury Limited and Cadbury Schweppes plc are parties to an agreement dated 13 May 1986, as amended by a deed of amendment dated 18 April 2002 the ""Cadbury Biscuits Agreement"", whereby Cadbury Limited licenses Premier International Foods UK Limited, Chivers Hartley Limited and Burton's respectively to manufacture and sell chocolate milk drinks, chocolate spreads, chocolate biscuits and chocolate syrup under certain Cadbury trademarks."
The Cadbury Biscuits Agreement continues until 2026 when it is renewable by Premier International Foods UK Limited.
Chocolate Supply Agreement An agreement, dated 29 January 2001, was entered into between Burton's and Premier International Foods UK Limited whereby Premier International Foods UK Limited agreed to buy its entire requirement for Cadbury chocolate products from Burton's so long as Burton's continues to be party to any agreements with Cadbury Limited in relation to the manufacture of Cadbury chocolate products.
The consideration payable is determined according to a specified price per tonne that shall remain valid until 31 December 2006 and shall be agreed between the parties for each year thereafter.
The value of purchases by the Group from Burton's were 0.6m for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Cocoa Products Purchasing Arrangements Premier International Foods UK Limited and Burton's have agreed to cooperate in relation to certain aspects of their respective cocoa products purchasing arrangements with Cadbury Limited.
In particular the parties undertake to agree annual budgets for cocoa bean prices and cocoa butter ratios which are used as inputs into the prices of the cocoa products, and to issue joint instructions to Cadbury Limited in respect of their forecast demands for cocoa products.
Burton's made a payment of 1.0m to Premier International Foods UK Limited in the year ended 31 December 2005.
"Sugar Supply Agreements A strategic partnership agreement, dated 5 December 2003, was entered into between Chivers Hartley Limited, H. L. Foods Limited, Premier Ambient Products UK Limited and Premier International Foods UK Limited together the ""Premier Foods Grouping"", and British Sugar plc and Burton's, in relation to the joint purchase of sugar for the calendar year 2005."
Sugar purchases are made on a fixed prices per tonne basis, subject to certain discounts and adjustments.
British Sugar plc guarantees that the terms of this agreement will result in a specific per annum saving to the Premier Foods Grouping and Burton's.
Sublease of offices at Centrium Business Park, St. Albans Premier Brands Foods Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, sublet office space at Centrium Business Park, St. Albans to Burton's.
The tenancy is for a duration of 15 years at an annual rent of 163,000 with the first year rent-free.
The amount received in 2005 was 163,408.
