107 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Company financial statements at 31 December 2006 1.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and UK GAAP under the historical cost convention.
The loss for the year of 3.8m 2005: 27.5m profit is recorded in the accounts of Premier Foods plc Group.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and not presented an income statement for the Company.
The Company has taken exemption under Financial Reporting Standard 1 Cash Flow Statements to not prepare a cash flow statement.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of Financial Reporting Standard 8 Related Party Transactions from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are part of the Premier Foods plc Group or investees of the Premier Foods plc Group.
Fixed asset investments Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in their value.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account deferred taxation.
The Company provides in full for deferred tax arising from timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and their inclusion in tax computations to the extent that a liability or an asset is expected to be payable or recoverable in the foreseeable future.
The Company discounts its deferred tax liability as appropriate.
Cash and liquid resources Short-term cash deposits, which can be called on demand without any material penalty, are included within cash balances in the balance sheet.
Share-based payments The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated using an option-pricing model.
In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 20 Share based payment, the resulting cost is charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the options or treated as an investment in subsidiaries.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting.
Leases Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statements on a straight-line basis over the lease period.
Operating profit Audit fees have been paid by another group company.
The Company has nine employees 2005: eight.
