68 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the financial statements 1.
General information Premier Foods plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office and principal place of business is identified on page 36.
The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group, is the supply of branded and own label grocery products, as described in note 16.
These Group consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2007.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Premier Foods plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and on the historical cost basis with the exception of derivative financial instruments that are incorporated using fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 3.
New standards and interpretations not applied.
During the year ended 31 December 2006, the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Effective for accounting periods beginning on or after: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 IFRS 8 Operating segments 1 January 2009 IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements : Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007 International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies 1 March 2006 IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 1 May 2006 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives 1 June 2006 IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment 1 November 2006 IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions 1 March 2007 IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 1 January 2008 These standards will be adopted by the Group in future accounting periods.
These interpretations are not currently applicable to the Group, however, will be applied by the Group in future periods.
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of any of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group's financial statements.
Certain of these standards and interpretations will require additional disclosures over and above those currently included in these financial statements in the period of initial application.
69 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 2.2 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Premier Foods plc and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
All inter-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
In 2005 the initial accounting for the businesses acquired were determined provisionally.
The full review was completed during 2006 and final fair value adjustments have been treated as restatements to the 2005 disclosures in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standard 3 Business Combinations IFRS 3.
In addition, the 2005 results have been restated for the effect of the rights issue on dividends per share and earnings per share in 2005.
2.3 Turnover Turnover comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods net of sales rebates, discounts, value added tax and other taxes directly attributable to turnover and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Turnover is recognised when the outcome of a transaction can be measured reliably and when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
Turnover is recognised on the following basis: i Sale of goods Sales of goods are recognised as turnover on transfer of the risks and rewards of ownership, which generally coincides with the time when the merchandise is delivered to customers and title passing.
ii Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis, taking into account the principal amounts outstanding and the interest rates applicable.
iii Sales rebates and discounts Sales rebates and discount reserves are established based on management's best estimate of the amounts necessary to meet claims by the Group's customers in respect of these rebates and discounts.
The provision is made at the time of sale and released, if unutilised, after assessment that the likelihood of such a claim being made has become remote.
2.4 Segmental reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those segments operating in other economic environments.
Income and expenses that are not directly attributable to a particular segment are allocated based on levels of senior management activity on the basis that this closely reflects the use of the Groups resources.
2.5 Share-based payments The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated using an option-pricing model.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting Standard 2 Share-based Payment IFRS 2, the resulting cost is charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the options.
The amount of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting.
2.6 Foreign currency translation Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling, the Groups presentational currency, at rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
The results of overseas subsidiaries with functional currencies other than in sterling are translated into sterling at the average rate of exchange ruling in the year.
Exchange differences arising from retranslation at year-end exchange rates of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries are recorded in reserves through the statement of recognised income and expense.
When a foreign operation is sold exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
All other exchange gains or losses are recorded in the Income statement.
70 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.7 Property, plant and equipment PPE Property, plant and equipment is initially recorded at cost.
Subsequent expenditure is added to the carrying value of the asset when it is probable that incremental future economic benefits will transfer to the Group.
All other subsequent expenditure is expensed in the period it is incurred.
Differences between the cost of each item of PPE and its residual value are written off over the estimated useful life of the asset using the straight-line method.
Reviews of the estimated remaining useful lives and residual values of individual productive assets are performed annually, taking account of commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The useful lives of owned assets range from 20 to 50 years for buildings, and 3 to 35 years for vehicles, plant and equipment.
All items of PPE are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
PPE is stated at cost less depreciation after taking into account the assets useful economic life.
2.8 Business combinations and goodwill On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arises when the fair value of the consideration for a business exceeds the fair value of the aggregate of the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Items of PPE acquired as part of a business acquisition are stated at fair value at the date of acquisition using a market value or depreciated replacement cost model.
On acquisition, the Group undertakes a review of the accounting policies of the business acquired to ensure compliance both with IFRSs and the accounting policies of the Group.
2.9 Intangible assets In addition to goodwill the Group recognises the following intangible assets: Acquired intangibles Acquired trademarks, brands, recipes and similar assets that are controlled through custody or legal rights and that could be sold separately from the rest of the business are capitalised, where fair value can be reliably measured.
A reputable independent specialist performs the valuations.
All of these assets are considered to have finite lives and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives that range from 20 to 40 years.
Research and development Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Costs incurred in developing a product, typically its recipe or packaging, are charged to income in the year in which they are incurred unless the future economic benefits of the project can be regarded as reasonably assured and are in accordance with International Accounting Standard 38 Intangible Assets IAS 38, in which case they are capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives.
Software development costs Assets acquired or internally developed, such as software, are capitalised when the future economic benefit is reasonably assured and the criteria within IAS 38 are met.
Software development costs are capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis over a range of 3 to 15 years.
2.10 Impairment The useful economic lives of intangible assets are determined, based on a review of a combination of factors including the asset ownership rights acquired and the nature of the overall product life cycle.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are also tested for impairment when an event that might affect asset values has occurred.
An impairment loss is recognised, in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying amount cannot be recovered either by selling the asset or by the discounted future earnings from operating the assets in accordance with International Accounting Standard 36 Impairment of Assets IAS 36.
Intangible assets with finite lives are subject to impairment testing on indication of impairment.
Any impairment losses are written off immediately to income.
2.11 Interest Borrowing costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method.
71 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 2.12 Leases Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the minimum lease payments or fair value.
Each asset is depreciated over its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis.
Obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included under borrowings.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Provisions for dilapidations are made where necessary.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease period.
2.13 Inventories Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
No interest is included but, where appropriate, cost includes production and other attributable overhead expenses as described in International Accounting Standard 2 Inventories IAS 2.
Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis by reference to the invoiced value of supplies and attributable costs of bringing the inventory to its present location and condition.
All inventories are reduced to net realisable value where the estimated selling price is lower than cost.
2.14 Taxation The charge or credit for taxation is based on the profit or loss for the year and takes into account deferred taxation.
Deferred taxation is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in computation of taxable profit.
Deferred taxation is not provided on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than in a business combination, if at the time of the transaction there is no effect on either accounting or taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date on the same basis.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability is settled based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
It is recognised in the income statement except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
2.15 Employee benefits Group companies provide a number of long-term employee benefit arrangements, primarily through pension schemes.
The schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity, which then invests the contributions to buy annuities for the pension liabilities as they become due based on the value of the fund, hence the Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions.
Defined benefit plans The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service costs.
Defined benefit obligations are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to the statement of recognised income and expenditure in the year in which they arise.
Current service costs, past-service costs, administration costs, expected return on assets and interest costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
All pension costs are recorded as a component of administrative costs.
Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as they fall due.
72 Premier Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.16 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has present legal or constructive obligations as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligations and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Where material, the Group discounts its provisions.
2.17 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group.
It can also be a present obligation arising from past events that is not recognised because it is not probable that outflow of economic resources will be required or the amount of obligation cannot be measured reliably.
A contingent liability is not recognised but is disclosed in the notes to accounts.
When an outflow becomes probable, it is recognised as a provision.
A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain events not wholly within the control of the Group.
Contingent assets are not recognised but are disclosed in the notes to the accounts when an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
When inflow is virtually certain an asset is recognised.
2.18 Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
A provision is made for impairment when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the terms of the receivables.
Trade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents, with original maturities at inception of less than 90 days, comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash in hand, short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments and bank overdrafts.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are measured initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and inclusive of debt issuance costs and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowings in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for borrowing costs.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Trade payables and other liabilities are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
Movements in fair value of foreign exchange derivatives are recognised within other operating income and expense and those relating to interest rate swaps are recorded in interest payable and other financial charges or interest receivable and other financial income.
Hedge accounting has not been adopted therefore the change in fair value is recognised directly in the income statement as it arises.
