Accounting policies 40 Premier Oil plc is a limited company incorporated in Scotland share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activities value of individual investments.
Any excess deficiency of the cost of the company and its subsidiaries the group are oil and gas of acquisition over below the groups share of the net fair values exploration and production in North Sea, Middle East-Pakistan, of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the West Africa and Asia.
associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill negative goodwill.
These financial statements are presented in US$ since that is the currency in which the majority of the groups transactions Where a group entity transacts with an associate of the group, are denominated.
unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the relevant associate.
Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Interest in joint ventures International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the group by the Council of European Union.
and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of financial instruments and certain Where a group company undertakes its activities under joint properties at transition date to IFRS.
venture arrangements directly, the groups share of jointly controlled assets and any liabilities incurred jointly with other Basis of consolidation venturers are recognised in the financial statements of the relevant The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial company and classified according to their nature.
statements of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries made up to 3 December each year.
Liabilities and expenses incurred directly in respect of interests Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern in jointly controlled assets are accounted for on an accrual basis.
the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as Income from the sale or use of the groups share of the output to obtain benefits from its activities.
of jointly controlled assets, and its share of joint venture expenses, are recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities associated with the transactions will flow to from the group and of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of their amount can be measured reliably.
Any excess deficiency of the cost of acquisition over below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired Joint venture arrangements which involve the establishment of is recognised as goodwill negative goodwill.
The interest of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest are referred minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of to as jointly controlled entities.
The group reports its interests the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
in jointly controlled entities using proportionate consolidation the groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the jointly controlled entities are combined with the equivalent items year are included in the consolidated income statement from in the consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where the group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial groups interest in the joint venture.
statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by other members of the group.
Sales revenue and other income Sales of petroleum production are recognised when goods are All significant intercompany transactions and balances between delivered or the title has passed to the customer.
group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the Interest in associates principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
An associate is an entity in which the group has a long-term equity interest and over which it has significant influence, but not control, Dividend income from investments is recognised when the through participation in the financial and operating policy shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Oil and gas assets The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated The company applies the successful efforts method of accounting in these financial statements using the equity method of for Exploration and Evaluation E&E costs, having regard to the accounting.
Interests in associates are carried in the balance sheet requirements of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the groups Mineral Resources.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial statements a Exploration and evaluation assets attributable overheads, finance costs capitalised, and the 4 Under the successful efforts method of accounting, all licence cost of recognising provisions for future restoration acquisition, exploration and appraisal costs are initially capitalised and decommissioning.
in well, field or specific exploration cost centres as appropriate, Depreciation of producing assets pending determination.
Expenditure incurred during the various The net book values of producing assets are depreciated generally exploration and appraisal phases is then written off unless on a field-by-field basis using the unit-of-production UOP commercial reserves have been established or the determination method by reference to the ratio of production in the period and process has not been completed.
the related commercial reserves of the field, taking into account Pre-licence costs future development expenditures necessary to bring those Costs incurred prior to having obtained the legal rights to explore reserves into production.
an area are expensed directly to the income statement as they Producing assets are generally grouped with other assets that are are incurred.
dedicated to serving the same reserves for depreciation purposes, Exploration and evaluation costs but are depreciated separately from producing assets that serve Costs of E&E are initially capitalised as E&E assets.
to acquire the legal right to explore, costs of technical services Pipelines are depreciated on a unit-of-throughput basis.
and studies, seismic acquisition, exploratory drilling and testing are capitalised as intangible E&E assets.
c Impairment of development and production assets An impairment test is performed whenever events and Tangible assets used in E&E activities such as the companys circumstances arising during the development or production vehicles, drilling rigs, seismic equipment and other property plant phase indicate that the carrying value of a development and equipment used by the companys exploration function or production asset may exceed its recoverable amount.
are classified as property, plant and equipment.
However, to the extent that such a tangible asset is consumed in developing an The carrying value is compared against the expected recoverable intangible E&E asset, the amount reflecting that consumption is amount of the asset, generally by reference to the present value recorded as part of the cost of the intangible asset.
Such intangible of the future net cash flows expected to be derived from costs include directly attributable overhead, including the production of commercial reserves.
The cash generating unit depreciation of property, plant and equipment utilised in E&E applied for impairment test purposes is generally the field, activities, together with the cost of other materials consumed except that a number of field interests may be grouped as during the exploration and evaluation phases.
a single cash generating unit where the cash flows of each field are interdependent.
E&E costs are not amortised prior to the conclusion of appraisal activities.
d Acquisitions, asset purchases and disposals Acquisitions of oil and gas properties are accounted for under Treatment of E&E assets at conclusion of appraisal activities the purchase method where the transaction meets the definition Intangible E&E assets related to each exploration licence prospect of a business combination.
are carried forward, until the existence or otherwise of commercial reserves has been determined subject to certain limitations Transactions involving the purchase of an individual field interest, including review for indications of impairment.
If commercial or a group of field interests, that do not qualify as a business reserves have been discovered, the carrying value, after any combination are treated as asset purchases, irrespective of impairment loss, of the relevant E&E assets is then reclassified whether the specific transactions involved the transfer of the as development and production assets.
If, however, commercial field interests directly or the transfer of an incorporated entity.
reserves have not been found, the capitalised costs are charged Accordingly, no goodwill and no deferred tax gross up arises, to expense after conclusion of appraisal activities.
and the consideration is allocated to the assets and liabilities purchased on an appropriate basis.
b Development and production assets Development and production assets are accumulated generally Proceeds on disposal are applied to the carrying amount of the on a field-by-field basis and represent the cost of developing specific intangible asset or development and production assets the commercial reserves discovered and bringing them into disposed of and any surplus is recorded as a gain on disposal in production, together with the E&E expenditures incurred in the income statement.
finding commercial reserves transferred from intangible E&E assets as outlined in accounting policy a above.
Inventories Inventories, except for petroleum products, are valued at the lower The cost of development and production assets also includes of cost and net realisable value.
Petroleum products and under the cost of acquisitions and purchases of such assets, directly and over lifts of crude oil are recorded at net realisable value, under inventories and other debtors or creditors respectively.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Accounting policies continued 42 Taxation prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
NonIncome tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently monetary assets held at historic cost are translated at the date of payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on purchase and are not retranslated.
Any gain or loss arising from a taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit change in exchange rate subsequent to the date of the transaction as reported in the income statement because it excludes items is included as an exchange gain or loss in the income statement.
of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups overseas and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are generally that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on to the groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used operation is disposed of.
in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the Group retirement benefits balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to stateassets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments profits will be available against which deductible temporary to defined contribution plans where the groups obligations under differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or contribution retirement benefit plan.
negative goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction The group operates a defined benefit pension scheme, which that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
requires contributions to be made to a separately administered fund.
The cost of providing benefits is determined using the Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses and interests in joint ventures, except where the group is able are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is income and expense.
Past service cost is also recognised probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, foreseeable future.
and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each average period until the benefits become vested.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation or part of the asset to be recovered.
as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to by the fair value of plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
calculation is limited to unrecognised past service cost, plus Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, the present value of available refunds and reductions in future except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to contributions to the plan.
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Royalties Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally Royalties are charged as production costs to the income enforceable right to set off corporation tax assets against statement in the period in which the related production is corporation tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes recognised as income.
levied by the same taxation authority and the group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Leasing Rentals payable for assets under operating leases are charged to Translation of foreign currencies the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
In the accounts of individual companies, transactions denominated in foreign currencies, being currencies other than Financial instruments the functional currency, are recorded in the local currency at actual Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on exchange rates as of the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets the groups balance sheet when the group becomes a party and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the period end to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the period end.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are Trade receivables denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates Trade receivables are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial statements Bank borrowings the cumulative changes of fair value of the hedging instrument 43 Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the that have been recorded in equity are included in financial income at the time when the forecasted transaction affects net income.
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and For qualifying hedges of net investment in a foreign entity, the direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the hedging instrument is recorded at fair value.
The portion of any income statement using effective interest method and are added change in fair value that is an effective hedge is included in equity.
to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Any remaining ineffective portion is recorded in financial income or expense where the hedging instrument is a derivative and Trade payables in equity in other cases.
If the entity is disposed of, then the Trade payables are stated at their nominal value.
cumulative changes of fair value of the hedging instrument that have been recorded in equity are included in financial income Derivative financial instruments at the time of the disposal.
The group uses derivative financial instruments derivatives to manage its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or nonrates, interest rates and oil price fluctuations.
derivative host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host All derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at cost, contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with including transaction costs.
Derivatives are subsequently carried unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Apart from those derivatives designated as qualifying cash flow hedging instruments, all changes in fair value are Fair value is the amount for which a financial asset, liability or recorded as financial income or expense in the period in which instrument could be exchanged between knowledgeable they arise.
and willing parties in an arms length transaction.
It is determined by reference to quoted market prices adjusted for estimated For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedging relationships may transaction costs that would be incurred in an actual transaction, be of three types.
Fair value hedges are hedges of particular risks or by the use of established estimation techniques such as option that may change the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
pricing models and estimated discounted values of cash flows.
Cash flow hedges are hedges of particular risks that may change the amount or timing of future cash flows.
Hedges of net Cash and cash equivalents investment in a foreign entity are hedges of particular risks that Cash comprises cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, may change the carrying value of the net assets of a foreign entity.
less overdrafts payable on demand.
To qualify for hedge accounting the hedging relationship must Cash equivalents comprise funds held in term deposit accounts meet several strict conditions on documentation, probability of with a maturity not exceeding three months.
occurrence, hedge effectiveness and reliability of measurement.
If these conditions are not met, then the relationship does not Share-based payments qualify for hedge accounting.
In this case the hedging instrument The group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based and the hedged item are reported independently as if there were Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has no hedging relationship.
In particular any derivatives are reported been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November at fair value, with changes in fair value included in financial income 2002 that were unvested at January 2005. or expense.
The group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based For qualifying fair value hedges, the hedging instrument is payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share-based recorded at fair value and the hedged item is recorded at its payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non previous carrying value, adjusted for any changes in fair value market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Any changes in the fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled sharevalues are reported in financial income or expense.
based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of shares that will For qualifying cash flow hedges, the hedging instrument is eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based recorded at fair value.
The portion of any change in fair value vesting conditions.
that is an effective hedge is included in equity, and any remaining ineffective portion is reported in financial income.
If the hedging Fair value is measured by use of the Monte Carlo simulation.
relationship is the hedge of a firm commitment or highly probable The main assumptions are provided in note 20 on page 6. forecasted transaction, the cumulative changes of fair value of A liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received the hedging instrument that have been recorded in equity are is recognised at the current fair value determined at each included in the initial carrying value of the asset or liability at the balance sheet date for cash-settled, share-based payments.
For all other qualifying cash flow hedges, Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006
