Statement of directors responsibilities 38 The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Group financial statements The directors are required to prepare financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRSs, the Companies Act 985 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulation.
IAS requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the groups financial position and financial performance.
Parent company financial statements Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the company only financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 985.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006
