Financial statements I ndependent auditors report to the members of Premier Oil plc We have audited the parent company financial statements We read the other information contained in the Annual Report 67 of Premier Oil plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 which as described in the contents section and consider whether it is comprise the balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 13. consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
These parent company financial statements have been We consider the implications for our report if we become aware prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do We have reported separately on the group financial statements not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
of Premier Oil plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 and on the information in the Remuneration Report that is described Basis of audit opinion as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the companys members those matters we are required to state to significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys to anyone other than the company and the companys members circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, assurance that the parent company financial statements are free the Remuneration Report and the parent company financial from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors company financial statements.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial In our opinion: statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be the parent company financial statements give a true and fair audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at and Ireland.
31 December 2006: the parent company financial statements have been properly We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent parent company financial statements have been properly with the parent company financial statements.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Report of the Directors Deloitte & Touche LLP is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
The Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors information given in the Report of the Directors includes that London specific information presented in the Financial and Operational United Kingdom reviews that is cross referred from the Business Review section 21 March 2007 of the Report of the Directors.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006
