CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Board recognises that, as in any business, Arriva must manage a range of risks in the course of its activities, and that failure adequately to manage these risks could adversely impact the business.
As part of the ongoing risk assessment and management programme three principal risks facing the business have been identified as: i Failure to meet health, safety and environmental standards The Board has made health and safety the key brand value of the group and clearly recognises the importance to the business, as a public transport operator, of maintaining high standards and the consequences of failing to do so.
A Safety Committee of the Board has been established for a number of years with the prime objective to oversee the companys safety policy and the arrangements for its implementation and reporting.
Health and safety issues are discussed regularly on a structured basis at both the Safety and the Executive Committees.
A process of self-certification supported by appropriate responsibilities and accountabilities has been fully implemented in the UK for some time and has recently been introduced into our mainland Europe operations.
ii Proposed changes in transport legislation and or regulations This is a risk that faces the group in all of the countries in which it operates.
In the UK, the Goverment is currently planning changes to UK transport legislation that it is expected to outline in a draft bill in Spring 2007.
This has the potential for a significant impact on the UK transport industry of which Arriva is a part.
Arriva, alongside other UK transport operators, is monitoring developments in this area.
In addition Arriva pays very close attention to legislative developments in the EU that may impact on the business.
iii Changes in public transport budgets A substantial proportion of the groups business is contracted with national or local government or their agencies.
Whilst, in the shortterm, the group has significant protection from its contracts, the medium to long-term outlook may be impacted positively or negatively by changes in the allocation of funds to public transport.
The group continues to ensure that it is strategically aware in all of the markets in which it operates of possible changes in order to understand and react to them in a timely fashion.
Going concern The directors confirm that, after having made appropriate enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the group and the company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the Accounts.
This approach was endorsed by the Audit Committee at its meeting held on 28 February 2007.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: - Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently - Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent - State that the financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS - Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the groups website.
Financial information published on the website is based on legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements and may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
