Financial glossary Beta model Diluted earnings per share A model for pricing share options which applies the same Diluted earnings per share is earnings per share after allowing principles as the binomial model but takes into account the for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of relationship of the share price to a portfolio of a comparator the weighted average number of options outstanding during group companies shares.
the period and shares from the assumed conversion of convertible bonds.
Binomial model A model for pricing share options which applies the same Dividend cover principles as decision tree analysis by considering the possibilities A performance measure which shows the number of times that prices may increase or decrease by a certain percentage.
that profit for the year covers dividends paid and proposed.
Black-Scholes model Earnings per share EPS A model for pricing share options using the share price, the time Earnings per share is a performance measure that expresses to expiration of the option, the risk free interest rate and the the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by expected standard deviation of the share return.
the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Cash flow hedges A hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows.
EBITDA EBITDA represents earnings before finance income, finance Collateralised cash costs, movement in fair value of interest rate swaps, UK Cash pledged as security.
income tax, depreciation, amortisation and profit on sale Combined Code of non-current assets.
The Combined Code on corporate governance sets out standards EBITDAR of good practice in relation to issues such as board composition EBITDAR represents earnings before finance income, finance and development, remuneration, accountability and audit, and costs, movement in fair value of interest rate swaps, UK income relations with shareholders.
tax, depreciation, amortisation, rental costs and profit on sale of Convertible bond non-current assets.
A corporate bond that can be exchanged for a specific number Effective interest rate method of ordinary shares.
Convertible bonds generally have lower A method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or interest rates than non-convertible bonds because they accrue financial liability and of allocating the interest income or expense value as the price of the underlying shares rise.
Convertible over the relevant period.
bonds therefore reflect a combination of the benefits of shares and corporate bonds.
Experience gains losses Changes in the valuation of defined benefit pension scheme Corporate governance which arise when events have not coincided with the actuarial Corporate governance describes the system by which assumptions made for the previous valuation.
an organisation is directed and controlled.
Fair value Curtailment gains losses The amount at which assets can be exchanged, or liabilities Curtailment gains losses arise on the curtailment or settlement settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms of a defined benefit pension plan.
A curtailment occurs when length transaction.
a company is demonstrably committed to make a material reduction in the number of employees covered by the plan Finance lease or amends the terms of the plan such that a material element A method of purchasing an asset by making rental payments of future service by current employees will no longer qualify throughout the expected lifetime of the asset.
shows an asset and a corresponding liability in the balance sheet.
Finance lease payments are accounted for as a reduction Debenture notes in the liability.
A form of bond taken out by a company, which it agrees to repay at a specified future date and which bears interest either Goodwill fixed or variable until maturity.
Goodwill is the excess of the amount paid for a company over the fair value of the net assets acquired at the date of acquisition.
Derivative financial instruments Financial instruments whose value changes in response to IAS changes in a specified interest rate, financial instrument price, International Accounting Standards.
commodity price, foreign exchange rate, or other variable, IASB and are settled at a future date.
Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 109 Financial glossary continued IFRS Over-hedge International Financial Reporting Standards.
An over-hedge occurs when the notional principal amount of the hedging instrument is greater than that of the hedged item.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
Net debt Loans, convertible bonds and finance leases net of other interest Indexation allowance bearing deposits and cash and cash equivalents.
Indexation allowance is tax relief given when calculating capital gains which takes into account inflation based on the Retail Prices Non-recurring and exceptional items Index RPI.
Indexation allowance can only reduce an unindexed Items which management consider will distort comparability, gain to nil and cannot create or increase a capital loss.
either due to their significant non-recurring nature or as a result of specific accounting treatments.
These are separately identified Interest cover in order to provide a trend measure of underlying performance.
A performance measure which shows the number of times EBITDA covers the net finance income and finance cost.
Interest rate cap A derivative financial instrument which sets the buyer a maximum Projected unit credit method rate of interest on a given principal over a designated period.
The accounting method used to calculate provisions for pensions.
It includes not only the pensions and vested interests accrued at Interest rate floor the date of calculation, but also anticipated increases in salaries A derivative financial instrument which gives the buyer a minimum and pensions.
rate of interest on a given principal over a designated period.
Securitisation Interest rate swap The process of raising finance by issuing bonds secured on future A derivative financial instrument used to minimise exposure cash flows and the asset values of the pubs that generate them.
to changes in interest rates by payment to receive a fixed interest rate in exchange for a floating rate interest rate, or Segmental reporting payment to receive a floating rate interest rate in exchange Information regarding the financial position and results for a fixed interest rate.
of operations in different business areas.
LIBOR Total Shareholder Return TSR London Inter Bank Offered Rate.
Interest rate quoted between The growth in value of a shareholding over a specific banks which is a recognised basis for calculating a floating period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase interest rate.
Operating lease UK GAAP A method of renting assets over a period which is less than UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
the expected life of the asset.
The lessee does not show an Working capital asset or liability on their balance sheet and periodic payments Short term disposable capital used to finance day-to-day are accounted for by the lessee as operating expenses in operations.
It is calculated as current assets less current liabilities.
Operating result Profit after deducting all operating expenses including depreciation and amortisation.. 110 www.
