| | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2006 77 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Basis of preparation The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP, under the historical cost convention adjusted to include the periodic revaluation of properties.
As permitted by section 230 of Companies Act 1985, an entity profit and loss account is not included as part of the published consolidated financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc.
The loss for the financial year dealt with in the accounts of the parent company is 1.0 million 2005: 3.4 million profit.
No cash ow statement has been included as the cash ows of the company are included in the consolidated financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc which are publicly available.
The consolidated financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The company has no employees 2005: nil.
No costs were incurred by the company in respect of employees or directors 2005: nil.
Amounts paid to the companys auditors in respect of the statutory audit were 5,000 2005: 5,000.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied under UK GAAP are detailed below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, with the exception of the adoption in the current year of several new Financial Reporting Standards, which are described in note 1.
Foreign currencies Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the company balance sheet.
Taxation and deferred taxation Current tax including UK corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of xed assets where there is no binding contract to dispose of these assets, nor on unremitted earnings where there is no binding commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are not capitalised: they are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the companys balance sheet when the company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Borrowings up to 31st May 2005 Prior to 1st June 2005, borrowings were stated at proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
The issue costs of debt instruments were amortised at a constant rate over the life of the instrument.
Borrowings from 1st June 2005 Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis through the profit and loss account using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
The company has not entered into any transactions involving derivative instruments.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classied according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
