| | 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS General information PZ Cussons Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered ofce is: PZ Cussons House, Bird Hall Lane, Stockport, SK3 0XN.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 1.
1 Accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union EU, including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
Results for the comparative period have been restated under IFRS as adopted for use in the EU, with the exception of IAS 32 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, which were adopted with an effective date of 1st June 2005.
Practice is continuing to evolve on the application and interpretation of IFRS.
Further standards may be issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and standards currently in issue and endorsed by the EU may be subject to interpretations issued by the IFRIC.
IFRS, as adopted by the EU, differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
However, the consolidated financial statements for the periods presented would be no different had the Group applied IFRS as issued by the IASB.
References to IFRS hereafter should be construed as references to IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles under IFRS, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards concerning the transition from UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice to IFRS are given in note 31 of the consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc and entities controlled by PZ Cussons Plc its subsidiaries made up to 31st May each year.
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
The total profits or losses of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated income statement and the interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, the accounts of the overseas subsidiaries are adjusted to conform to the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Operating profit Operating profit is the profit of the Group before finance income, finance costs and taxation.
| | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2006 45 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued Exceptional items The Group has adopted a columnar income statement format which seeks to highlight significant items within the Group results for the period.
Such items are considered by the directors to be exceptional in nature rather than being representative of the underlying trading of the Group, and may include such items as restructuring costs, material impairments of non-current assets, material profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment and profit or loss on disposal or termination of operations.
The directors apply judgement in assessing the particular items, which by virtue of their scale and nature should be disclosed in the middle column of the income statement and notes to the financial statements as Exceptional items.
The directors believe that the separate disclosure of these items is relevant to an understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business combinations are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classied as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Interests in joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control, that is when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Joint venture arrangements that involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest are referred to as jointly controlled entities.
The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using the equity method of accounting, rather than proportional consolidation.
Under IAS 28 Investments in associates and IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures, a single gure for results is presented as a separate item on the face of the income statement as part of profit before tax within operating profit, while a single gure is disclosed for the Group share of net assets within xed asset investments.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or jointly controlled entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets An acquired brand is only recognised on the balance sheet where it is supported by a registered trademark, where brand earnings are separately identiable and the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the business.
Brands acquired as part of a business combination are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Purchased brands are recorded at purchase cost.
Brands currently held are not amortised as the directors believe they have indefinite lives.
In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets, the brands are tested for impairment annually, and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately as income.
| | 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classication.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classied as held for sale are measured at the lower of the assets previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, rebates and sales related taxes but including interest receivable on sales on extended credit and income from the provision of technical services and agreements.
Sales of goods are recognised when title has passed and the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Leasing Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benets received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are expressed in sterling, which is the functional currency of the company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the actual rate of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities are recognised directly in equity.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates uctuate signicantly.
Cumulative foreign currency translation differences arising on the translation and consolidation of foreign operations income statements and balance sheets denominated in foreign currencies are recorded as a separate component of equity.
Applying the exemption under IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the Group has set the currency reserve to zero at 1st June 2004, the date of transition to IFRS and measured and recorded separately in that currency reserve all cumulative foreign currency translation differences arising after that date.
On disposal of a foreign operation the cumulative translation differences will be transferred to the income statement in the period of the disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Government grants Government grants related to property, plant and equipment are reected in the balance sheet as deferred income and credited to the income statement over the useful lives of the assets concerned.
At 31st May 2006, all government grants received had been fully amortised.
Grants previously recognised are subject to fullment of ongoing conditions.
| | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2006 47 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued Employee benets Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates retirement benefit schemes in the United Kingdom and for most overseas countries in which it carries on business.
Those in the United Kingdom are dened benefit schemes: overseas schemes vary in detail depending on local practice.
In respect of the dened benefit schemes, the cost of providing benets is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with full actuarial valuations being carried out every three years or more frequently should a material change occur in any of the schemes.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside profit and loss and presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benets are already vested, and otherwise amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benets become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the dened benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Payments to dened contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Share-based payments The Group operates a deferred annual share bonus scheme and an executive share option scheme for senior executives, both of which involve equity-settled share-based payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 Share-based payments has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7th November 2002 that were unvested as of 1st June 2005.
Equity-settled share-based payments under the executive share option scheme are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The cost to the company of making awards under the deferred annual share bonus scheme is charged to the income statement over the period to which the performance relates.
Taxation Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax liabilities on a net basis.
| | 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for administration purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at deemed cost at the date of transition to IFRS less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
All other assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Plant and machinery and xtures and ttings are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other than land, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following basis: Freehold buildings at rates not less than 2% Leasehold buildings at rates which will reduce the book value to nil on or before the termination of the leases with a minimum of 2% Plant and machinery not less than 10% Fixtures, ttings and vehicles not less than 20% In the case of major projects depreciation is provided from the date the project in question is brought into use.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss for the period.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the FIFO method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Research and development Research and development expenditure is charged against profits in the year in which it is incurred, unless it meets the criteria for capitalisation set out in IAS 38 Intangible assets.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash at bank and in hand plus short-term deposits less overdrafts.
Short-term deposits have a maturity of less than three months from the date of acquisition.
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Derivative financial instruments The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments primarily foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency uctuations relating to certain rm commitments and forecasted transactions.
The occasional use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the board of directors, which provide written principles in the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
| | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2006 49 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments up to 31st May 2005 Under UK GAAP, when the Group entered into currency swaps to manage its exposure to uctuations in currency rates, principal amounts were revalued at exchange rates ruling at the date of the Group balance sheet and included in the sterling value of debt.
In order for such swaps to have qualied for hedge accounting, the forward contract currency swap must have related to an existing asset, liability or rm commitment, have been in the same currency as the hedged item and have reduced the risk of foreign currency exchange movements to the Groups operations.
Where they did, exchange gains and losses were taken directly to reserves and included in the statement of total recognised gains and losses in accordance with SSAP 20 Foreign currency translation.
Derivative financial instruments from 1st June 2005 Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value at the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ows are recognised directly in equity, and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Borrowings up to 31st May 2005 Prior to 1st June 2005, borrowings were stated at proceeds, net of direct issue costs.
The issue costs of debt instruments were amortised at a constant rate over the life of the instrument.
Borrowings from 1st June 2005 Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis through the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classied according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Investments Investments other than interests in joint ventures are recognised and derecognised on a trade date when a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Investments are classied as either held-to-maturity, held-for-trading, loans and receivables or available-for-sale.
Held-to-maturity investments and loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost.
Held-for-trading and available-for-sale investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Where securities are held-for-trading purposes, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in net profit or loss for the period.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to affected parties.
Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Estimates and accounting judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires management to make assumptions and estimates about future events.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by denition, differ from the actual results.
The assumptions and estimates that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
