| | 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Current asset investments Investments other than interests in joint ventures are recognised and derecognised on a trade date when a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Investments are classied as either held-to-maturity, held-for-trading, loans and receivables or available-for-sale.
Held-to-maturity investments and loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost.
Held-for-trading and available-for-sale investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Where securities are held for trading purposes, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in net profit or loss for the period.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are held at cost, less any provision for impairment.
Critical accounting policies and estimation uncertainties None of the above accounting policies are considered to be critical to the financial statements of the company.
There are no significant areas of estimation uncertainty.
1 New accounting policies The company has adopted the following accounting standards in the year: Financial Reporting Standard No.
21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date FRS 21.
The major effect of FRS 21 is to change the approach to dividends declared after the balance sheet date in respect of the year under review such that these dividends are no longer accrued for at the balance sheet.
As a result of adopting FRS 21, the companys creditors due within less than one year at 31st May 2005 decreased by 11.3 million.
The adoption of Financial Reporting Standard No.
FRS 17 had no impact on the companys profit or net assets.
23 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates FRS 23.
FRS 23 sets out additional guidance on the translation method for transactions in foreign currencies and on determining the functional and presentation currencies.
The adoption of FRS 23 had no effect on the companys profit or net assets.
25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation FRS 25.
FRS 25 sets out the requirements for the presentation of, and disclosures relating to, financial instruments.
The adoption of FRS 25 had no effect on the companys profit or net assets: disclosures complying with the requirements of FRS 25 are included in the financial statements.
FRS 26 sets out requirements for measurement, recognition and derecognition of financial instruments.
The adoption of FRS 26 had no effect on the companys profit or net assets.
FRS 28 sets out the requirements for the disclosure of corresponding amounts for items shown in an entitys primary financial statements and the notes to the financial statements.
The adoption of FRS 28 had no effect upon the companys profit or net assets.
FRS 25 and FRS 26 allow companies to opt to apply these standards from the date of the opening balance sheet of the first period reported under the standards without restating the comparative period.
The company has chosen this option.
In addition to the impact on the financial statements of the adoption of new Financial Reporting Standards, certain balances held in the companys balance sheet at 31st May 2005 have been reclassied from pension fund prepayments 1.2 million, pension fund accrual and deferred income 6.5 million, accruals and deferred income 0.6 million and deferred tax provisions 0.3 million to amounts payable to Group companies 6.2 million.
These reclassications have been made as, in the opinion of the directors, the revised presentation more fairly reects the nature of these balances.
