| | 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS General information PZ Cussons Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered ofce is: PZ Cussons House, Bird Hall Lane, Stockport, SK3 0XN.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 1.
1 Accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union EU, including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
Results for the comparative period have been restated under IFRS as adopted for use in the EU, with the exception of IAS 32 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, which were adopted with an effective date of 1st June 2005.
Practice is continuing to evolve on the application and interpretation of IFRS.
Further standards may be issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and standards currently in issue and endorsed by the EU may be subject to interpretations issued by the IFRIC.
IFRS, as adopted by the EU, differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
However, the consolidated financial statements for the periods presented would be no different had the Group applied IFRS as issued by the IASB.
References to IFRS hereafter should be construed as references to IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles under IFRS, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards concerning the transition from UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice to IFRS are given in note 31 of the consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc and entities controlled by PZ Cussons Plc its subsidiaries made up to 31st May each year.
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
The total profits or losses of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated income statement and the interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, the accounts of the overseas subsidiaries are adjusted to conform to the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Operating profit Operating profit is the profit of the Group before finance income, finance costs and taxation.
