| | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2006 71 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 Explanation of transition to IFRS This is the first year that the Group has presented its financial statements under IFRS.
The accounting policies set out in note 1 have been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31st May 2006, the comparative information presented for the year ending 31st May 2005 and in the preparation of an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1st June 2004.
In preparing its opening balance sheet, the Group has adjusted amounts reported previously in financial statements prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
A brief explanation of how the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS has affected the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash ows is set out in the following tables and notes that accompany the tables.
A more detailed explanation is available in the document entitled Restatement of Financial Information under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS at the Groups website www.
Reconciliation of equity and profit at 1st June 2004 date of transition to IFRS 31st May 1st June 2005 2004 m m Total equity under UK GAAP 327.8 305.9 Adjustments to conform to IFRS Employee benets 4.4 6.8 Deferred tax on revaluation reserves 15.6 16.2 Share-based payments 0.1 0.1 Dividends 11.3 9.6 Total equity under IFRS 328.0 306.2 Year ended 31st May 2005 m profit on ordinary activities after tax under UK GAAP 35.3 Adjustments to conform to IFRS Share-based payments 0.2 profit for the year under IFRS 35.1 Under IAS 7 Cash Flow Statements, movements on cash and cash equivalents are reconciled: under UK GAAP the statement reconciles cash only.
The change in the presentation of the cash ow statement under IAS 7 makes no difference to the free cash generated by the Group.
IFRS transitional arrangements and early adoption The rules for the first-time adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
IFRS 1 requires that IFRS be applied retrospectively unless a specic exemption is applied.
In preparing these IFRS consolidated financial statements, the Group has opted to take the following exemptions as permitted under IFRS 1: IFRS 3 Business combinations: Business combinations that took place before the transition date have not been restated and therefore all goodwill written off to reserves or amortised prior to the date of transition remains written off to reserves and will not be taken into account either for subsequent impairment reviews or on disposal of the subsidiary.
IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment: To treat the property valuations as undertaken at 31st May 2004 as deemed cost at 1st June 2004: the related asset values therefore are unchanged on transition to IFRS.
IAS 21 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates: To deem cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations to be zero as at the IFRS transition date.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: To apply these standards, as adopted for use in the EU, with an effective date of 1st June 2005.
IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for disposal and discontinued operations: To implement IFRS 5 from 1st January 2005 onwards.
Although the Group is taking advantage of this exemption, no specic measurement differences arise on 1st January 2005 from this change in accounting policy.
IAS 19 Employee Benets: To recognise in full all actuarial gains and losses relating to pension schemes both at the opening balance sheet date, and prospectively, through the statement of recognised income and expense.
| | 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Summary of the effects of IFRS adoption The principal impacts of IFRS on the Groups 2005 financial statements were as follows: Recognition of the Groups obligations and surpluses in relation to its dened benefit retirement benefit schemes: Recognition of a charge for the fair value of share-based compensation plans: Recognition of deferred taxation liabilities on the revaluation of property, plant and equipment: and Recognition of dividends only when they are declared rather than when proposed.
In terms of the 2005 results, reported profits decreased under IFRS, mainly because of the charge to the income statement in relation to share-based payments.
Reported net assets increased under IFRS, as a result of the net impact of the reversal of dividends and the recognition of additional deferred tax liabilities.
Explanation of adjustments to conform to IFRS The significant changes as a result of the transition to IFRS and of adopting the IFRS Group accounting policies are described below: Employee benets Under UK GAAP the Group accounted for its dened benefit schemes under SSAP 24 which spread the cost of retirement pensions and related benets over the periods benefiting from the employees services.
Under IAS 19 Employee benets, the balance sheet reects the full value of the retirement benefit scheme surplus deficit.
The Group has elected to recognise all actuarial gains and losses directly in equity through the statement of recognised income and expense.
The charge to the income statement in respect of retirement benefit schemes includes current and past service costs.
As a result of the impact of IAS 19, the Groups equity increased by 4.4 million and there was no impact on the income statement charge for the year ended 31st May 2005.
Share options Under UK GAAP, a charge to the profit and loss account was made in respect of share-based compensation schemes based on the intrinsic value of the awards.
Under IFRS 2 Share-based payment, a charge to the income statement representing the fair value of outstanding equity instruments granted to employees under the share-based payment scheme, is recognised over the vesting period of the instrument.
The Groups share-based compensation scheme is a performance-related share option scheme.
Under UK GAAP, there was no charge for these share-based compensation schemes because they are either Inland Revenue approved and therefore specically excluded from the requirement to record a charge or have an intrinsic value of nil as the option price is set at the market value at the date of grant.
The Group has taken up the option under IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards permitting companies to apply IFRS 2 only to equity instruments granted after 7th November 2002 that had not vested prior to 1st June 2005.
As a result, the share-based compensation charge in respect of equity settled compensation was 0.2 million for the year ended 31st May 2005.
Deferred tax Under UK GAAP, deferred taxation was provided in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law at the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation was not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of xed assets where there was no commitment to sell the asset.
Under IAS 12 Income taxes, deferred tax is provided in full on all taxable temporary differences.
Consequently, IFRS is generally more comprehensive in the requirement to recognise deferred taxation.
For example, deferred tax is provided on the revaluation of xed assets and rolled over capital gains regardless of whether there is a commitment to sell the asset.
Deferred tax is also provided when brands are acquired through the purchase of shares, regardless of whether there is an intention to sell the brands or not.
The impact of IAS 12 adoption was a reduction in net assets of 15.6 million at 31st May 2005 as a result of recognising additional deferred tax liabilities, principally in relation to revalued properties.
Dividends Under UK GAAP, dividends proposed were provided for in the period to which they related.
Under IAS 10 Post-balance sheet events, proposed dividends do not meet the denition of a liability until such time as they have been approved.
The requirement to provide for dividends only when they have been approved resulted in an increase in total equity of 9.6 million at the opening balance sheet date and an increase of 11.3 million at 31st May 2005.
