Independent report of the auditors to the members of The Rank Group Plc We have audited the Group and Company financial statements Basis of audit opinion the financial statements of The Rank Group Plc for the We conducted our audit in accordance with International year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the Group Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing income statement, the Group and Company balance sheets, Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, the Group statement of recognised income and expense, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the the Group and Company cash ow statements and the related financial statements and the part of the remuneration report notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation the information in the remuneration report that is described of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting as having been audited.
policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Directors report, the remuneration report and the financial information and explanations which we considered necessary statements in accordance with applicable law and International in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Union are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall part of the remuneration report to be audited in accordance adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys Opinion members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the In our opinion: Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2006 agreed by our prior consent in writing.
and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union statements and the part of the remuneration report to be as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies audited have been properly prepared in accordance with Act 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as at the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
31 December 2006 and cash ows for the year then ended: We also report to you if, in our opinion, the information given in the Directors report and the remuneration report is consistent the financial statements and the part of the remuneration with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper report to be audited have been properly prepared in accounting records, if we have not received all the information accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 and explanations we require for our audit, or if information of the IAS Regulation: and specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance  LLP procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial 14 March 2007 statements.
The other information comprises only the financial highlights, the Chairmans statement, the Operating and financial review, the responsibility statement, the Board of Directors, the Directors report, the unaudited part of the remuneration report, the corporate governance statement, the statement of Directors responsibilities, the five year review and the shareholder information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
38 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006
