Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above the Remuneration report and the financial statements in requirements in preparing the financial statements.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable have prepared the Group and parent Company financial them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In preparing these financial statements the Directors are The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and required to: integrity of the website, on which this Annual Report and Financial Statements will be published.
In relation to this, the Directors Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them would like to draw attention to the fact that legislation in the consistently.
UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State that the financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Prepare the financial statements for both the Company and the Group on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualications as necessary.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 37
