Group statement of recognised income and expense for the year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2005 Note m m profit loss for the financial year 119.0 208.5 Currency translation net of tax and hedging 28.3 45.0 Actuarial gain loss on dened benefit pension scheme net of tax 34 64.7 13.4 Revaluation of available-for-sale securities 22.8 6.8 Revaluation of available-for-sale securities recycled within net profit 4 12.1 Tax on non-qualifying leasehold property 4.3 Total recognised income expense for the year 190.3 165.8 attributable to equity shareholders 188.5 167.0 attributable to minority interest 1.8 1.2 190.3 165.8 The notes on pages 43 to 88 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 41 Cash flow statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 Note m m m m Cash ows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 27 83.0 175.3 1.2 4.1 Interest received 5.0 5.1 Interest paid 63.2 40.4 10.2 6.9 Tax paid 3.9 1.3 Additional pension payment 50.0 Discontinued operations 5.2 10.8 Net cash used in from operating activities 34.3 127.9 11.4 11.0 Cash ow from investing activities Proceeds from sale of businesses net of cash disposed 31 449.8 Acquisition of businesses 0.6 3.0 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 50.2 28.2 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 10.1 1.6 Proceeds from sale and leaseback net of lease assignment 171.9 Proceeds from sale of investments 8.8 Discontinued operations 21.8 70.9 Net cash from used in investing activities 568.0 100.5 Cash ows from nancing activities Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 5.2 5.0 5.2 5.0 Debt due within one year repayment of Sterling borrowings 10.5 Debt due after more than one year repayment of Sterling borrowings 35.0 repayment of Dollar borrowings 219.1 51.9 drawdown on syndicated facilities 300.1 328.9 repayment of syndicated facilities 326.3 153.8 other 2.8 Finance lease principal payments 1.6 3.0 Dividends paid to shareholders 74.1 92.5 74.1 92.5 Share buy-back 201.4 201.4 Amounts received from subsidiaries 281.0 99.3 Discontinued operations 13.8 4.5 Net cash used in from nancing activities 566.0 14.9 10.7 11.8 Effects of exchange rate changes 1.7 1.6 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 34.0 43.9 0.7 0.8 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 28 109.4 65.5 0.8 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 28 75.4 109.4 0.1 0.8 Details of cash ows relating to discontinued operations are provided in note 7.
The notes on pages 43 to 88 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
42 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Notes to the financial statements 1 General information and accounting policies The preparation of financial information, in conformity with IFRS, The Rank Group Plc is a company incorporated in the United requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial registered ofce is given on page 25. information and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
It also requires management to exercise Statement of compliance its judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, with EU endorsed International Accounting and Financial Reporting or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Standards IFRS and IFRIC interpretations and with those parts consolidated financial statements are set out below.
The best of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting estimates of the Directors may differ from the actual results.
Note Categorisation of items as exceptional 1-V, 4 The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation Assets and liabilities carried at fair value 1-G of these financial statements are set out below.
Hedge accounting 1-G Retirement benets 1-M, 34 A Basis of preparation of the financial statements Assets and liabilities held for sale 1-T The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost Carrying value of assets and potential impairments 1-L, 13 convention as modied by the revaluation of available-for-sale Estimated economic lives and residual values 1-J, 1-K investments, financial assets and liabilities held for trading, and Recoverability of deferred tax assets 1-O, 15 non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
A summary of the Groups significant accounting policies is set B Consolidation out below.
Except where noted below, these policies have been a Subsidiaries consistently applied.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a Amendments to published standards effective in 2006 a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Amendment, Financial guarantee contracts: existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether Under the amendment to IAS 39 the Company has recognised the Group controls another entity.
All subsidiaries are fully a liability in relation to financial guarantees provided to certain consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the subsidiary undertakings external borrowings.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
a 0.6m reduction in the Companys opening equity.
There is no impact on the Group results as the external borrowings to The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the which the guarantees relate are consolidated within the Group acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition balance sheet.
is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, b Standards, amendments and interpretations effective plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identiable in 2006 but not relevant assets acquired, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in The following standards, amendments and interpretations a business combination are measured initially at their fair values to published standards are mandatory for accounting periods at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority beginning on or after 1 January 2006 but they are not material interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value to the Groups operations: of the Groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than IAS 19 Amendment, Employee benets: the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
IAS 39 Amendment, The fair value option: Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on IAS 39 Amendment, Cash ow hedge accounting of forecast transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised intragroup transactions: losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies IAS 21 Amendment, Net investment in a foreign operation: as applied to subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
IFRS 1, Amendment, First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: b Associates and joint ventures discontinued operations Joint ventures are all entities over which the Group exercises IFRS 6, Amendment, exploration for and evaluation of mineral joint control.
Associates are all entities over which the Group resources: exercises significant inuence but not control.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for by the equity method IFRS 6, Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources: of accounting and are initially recognised at cost, in accordance with the alternative treatment allowed by IAS 31 and IAS 28.
The IFRIC 4, Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease: Groups investment in joint ventures includes goodwill identied on acquisition net of any accumulated impairment loss.
IFRIC 5, Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds: and The Groups share of its associates and joint ventures postacquisition profits or losses after tax is recognised in the income IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from participating in a specic statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves market Waste electrical and electronic equipment.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 43 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 General information and accounting policies continued These capitalised contract advances are amortised over the When the Groups share of losses after tax in an associate or joint life of the contract on the basis of managements estimates of venture equals or exceeds its interest or participation, including total units Deluxe Media and footage Deluxe Film, unless the any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise terms of the contract indicate an alternative treatment would further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments be more appropriate.
on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Revenue recognised in the income statement is stated net Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its of contract advance amortisation.
associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest or participation.
Unrealised losses are E Segmental reporting also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of Management has identied business segments as its primary an impairment of the asset transferred.
A business segment is dened as a group of as applied to associates and joint ventures have been changed assets and operations engaged in providing products and services where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted that are subject to risks and returns different from those of the by the Group.
C Revenue recognition Management has identied geographical segments as its Revenue consists of the fair value of sales of goods and services, secondary reporting segments.
A geographical segment net of value added tax, contract advance amortisation, rebates is engaged in providing products and services in a particular and discounts.
economic environment, that are subject to risks and returns different from those of a segment operating a Sale of goods in other economic environments.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and benets of ownership of the product have transferred Segment assets and liabilities are the result of segment operating to the buyer, which may be upon shipment or upon completion activities and are either directly attributable to the segment of the product and the product being ready for delivery, based or can be allocated to the segment on a reasonable basis.
on the specic contract terms.
Segment revenue is revenue from operating activities directly b Rendering of services attributable to a segment and the relevant portion of enterprise Revenue from services is recognised in the accounting year revenue that can be allocated on a reasonable basis to a the services have been rendered, by reference to the stage segment, whether from sales to external customers or from of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date.
transactions with other segments of the same enterprise.
c Gaming win Segment expense is expense resulting from the operating Revenue for casinos includes the gaming win before deduction activities of a segment that is directly attributable to the segment of gaming duty.
Revenue for bingo is net of prizes and value and the relevant portion of an expense that can be allocated on added tax before deduction of gross profits tax.
Revenue for a reasonable basis to the segment, including expenses relating to Blue Square including sportsbetting and on-line casinos represents sales to external customers and expenses relating to transactions gross win margin.
Although disclosed as revenue, gaming win with other segments of the same enterprise.
meets the denition of a gain under IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
F Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency d Sale of recovered materials discontinued operations only Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups Recovered products are deemed to have an immaterial realisable entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic value compared with the cost of production materials.
Income environment in which the entity operates the functional from the sale of recovered materials is not recognised as such, currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in being offset against the materials cost.
UK Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentational currency.
e Finance income Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis using b Transactions and balances the effective interest method.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the D Contract advances discontinued operations only transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from The Deluxe businesses enter into trade contracts with major the settlement of such transactions and from the translation customers that span several years.
As part of these contracts, at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities Deluxe provides advance cash payments to the customers.
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement in finance costs, except when deferred in equity where Deluxe capitalises the total commitment payable under each hedging criteria are met.
contract within debtors at the date of the agreement and records a corresponding liability on the balance sheet for any outstanding Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities unpaid amounts.
held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities classied as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in equity.
44 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 1 General information and accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities c Group companies Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date The results and financial position of all the Group entities a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently none of which has the currency of a hyper-inationary economy remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising that have a functional currency different from the presentation the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are as either: translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet.
The closing US Dollar rate against Sterling was 1.96 2005: 1.72, i hedges of the fair value of recognised liabilities fair value hedge : and the closing Euro rate against Sterling was 1.48 2005: 1.46 : ii hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised liability ii income and expenses for each income statement are or a highly probable forecast transaction cash ow hedge : or translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates iii hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and investment hedge.
expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions.
The average US Dollar rate against Sterling in the year was The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, 1.84 2005: 1.81, and the average Euro rate against Sterling the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged was 1.47 2005: 1.46 : and items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an component of equity.
ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the values or cash ows of hedged items.
translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
purposes are disclosed in note 21.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement net of hedging as part of The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classied as a nonthe gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising current asset or liability when the remaining hedged item is more on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and than 12 months: it is classied as a current asset or liability when liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Trading derivatives are classied as a current asset or liability.
G Financial instruments Financial assets i Fair value hedges The Group classies its financial assets in the following categories: Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and loans and receivables, and available-for-sale.
The classication qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset acquired.
Management determines the classication of its or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The Group financial assets at initial recognition.
applies only fair value hedge accounting for hedging xed interest risk on borrowings.
The gain or loss relating to the effective a Loans and receivables portion of interest rate swaps hedging xed rate borrowings is Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are in the income statement within nancing cost.
Changes in the classied as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are fair value of the hedge xed rate borrowings attributable to classied as trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
interest rate risk are recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
b Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, are either designated in this category or not classied in any the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedge item for which of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets the effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss unless management intends to dispose of the investment within over the period to maturity.
12 months of the balance sheet date.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 45 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 General information and accounting policies continued b Operating leases ii Cash ow hedge Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that ownership are retained by the lessor are classied as operating are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges are recognised in leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of lease equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised incentives or premiums, are charged on the income statement immediately in the income statement within operating costs.
on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge I Provisions no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised likely than not that an outow of resources will be required to in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax within operating costs.
discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the obligation.
iii Net investment hedge The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted as interest expense.
for similarly to cash ow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is a Onerous contracts recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective The Group is party to a number of leasehold property contracts.
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement Provision has been made against those leases where the property within nancing costs.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity is now vacant and the unavoidable costs under the lease exceed are included in the income statement when the foreign operation the economic benefit expected to be derived from potential subis partially disposed of or sold.
Provision has also been made against leases where impairment testing has indicated that, after recognising an iv Derivatives at fair value through profit or loss impairment charge, the estimated discounted cash ows derived Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge from the property and its associated operations are insufficient accounting and are accounted for at fair value through profit or to cover the unavoidable lease costs and the lease is therefore loss.
Changes in the fair value of these derivative instruments that deemed onerous.
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement within operating costs.
b Provision on disposal Following the disposal of an operation, provision is made for Other the estimated future costs and potential warranty claims directly The fair value of the liability portion of the convertible bond attributable to the disposal.
was determined on the date of issue.
This amount is recorded as a liability and is held on an amortised cost basis until such J Property, plant and equipment time as it is extinguished on conversion or the maturity of the All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost bonds.
The remaining proceeds have been allocated to the less depreciation and any impairment.
Historical cost includes conversion option and are recognised in shareholders funds.
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of This results in a higher interest cost over the life of the bond the items.
as an equal and opposite amount to the equity component is amortised through the income statement as a nancing cost.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is Income from gaming win is also recognised under IAS 39 as probable that future economic benets associated with the item gaming win falls within the denition of financial instruments.
will ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the H Leases income statement during the financial period in which they Leases are tested to determine whether the lease is a finance are incurred.
or operating lease and treated accordingly.
Property leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated contract are split into its two component parts before testing.
using the straight line method to allocate their cost less their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: a Finance leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has freehold and leasehold property 50 years or their useful life if less: substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied refurbishment of property 3 to 15 years: as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception xtures, ttings, plant and equipment and others 3 to 20 years.
of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property, plant and equipment or the present value of minimum lease The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
and finance charges so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included on other long term borrowings.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
46 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 1 General information and accounting policies continued c Casino and other gaming licences An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its The Group capitalises acquired casino and other gaming licences.
recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than The amount capitalised is the difference between the price paid its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals for a property or business and the associated licence and the are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount.
fair value of a similar property or business without a licence.
These are included in the income statement.
Management believes that licences have indefinite lives as there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the licences are Pre-opening costs are expensed to the income statement expected to generate net cash inows and each licence holds as incurred.
a value outside the property in which it resides.
Each licence is reviewed annually for impairment.
The Group does not capitalise interest.
Any costs incurred to obtain a cold casino licence or renewing K Intangible assets casino licences annually are expensed as incurred, except for the a Goodwill cost of the licence at acquisition.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identiable assets d Other purchased intangible assets of the acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate at the date If acquired, the Group capitalises the costs of other intangible of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included assets such as brands, trademarks and customer relationships.
Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures Costs incurred to internally generate these intangible assets are is included in investments in joint ventures.
Goodwill is tested expensed as incurred.
For business combinations occurring after annually for impairment and carried at amortised cost as at 1 January 2004, purchased intangible assets are capitalised on 1 January 2004 plus cost for any acquisition completed after the balance sheet at fair value on acquisition.
The valuation of 1 January 2004 less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and purchased intangible assets and determining the useful economic losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount life involves management making assumptions and estimates, of goodwill relating to the entity sold, except where goodwill which are highly judgemental and susceptible to change.
has been previously written off directly to reserves under Purchased intangible assets with nite lives are amortised over previous GAAP.
their useful economic lives, estimated at between 2 to 9 years.
Goodwill is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit or L Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and group of cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment equipment testing.
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identiable group Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to of assets that generates cash inows that are largely independent amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets of the cash inows from other assets or group of assets.
that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that Goodwill arising on acquisitions made before 31 December 1997 the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
has been written off directly to reserves.
An impairment loss is recognised as the amount by which b Computer software and other development costs an assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing software.
These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which their estimated useful lives 3 to 5 years.
there are separately identiable cash ows cash-generating units.
The expected cash ows generated by the assets are Costs associated with maintaining computer software discounted using appropriate discount rates, which reect the programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs risks associated with the groups of assets.
that are directly associated with the production and development of identiable and unique software products controlled by the If an impairment loss is recognised, the carrying amount of the Group, and that will probably generate economic benets asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible An impairment loss is recognised as an expense in the income assets for both externally purchased and internally developed statement immediately.
Direct costs include specic employee costs for software development.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the Computer software development costs recognised as assets are revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent amortised over their estimated useful lives, estimated at between that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 2 to 5 years.
amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income in the income statement immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 47 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 General information and accounting policies continued The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction M Employee benefit costs costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share a Pension obligations premium when the options are exercised.
Group companies operate various pension schemes.
The schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies c Termination benets or trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial Termination benets are payable when employment is terminated calculations.
The Group has both dened benefit and dened before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee contribution plans.
A dened benefit plan is a pension plan accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee Group recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more committed to either terminating the employment of current factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A dened employees according to a detailed formal plan: or providing contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays termination benets as a result of an offer made to encourage xed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal voluntary redundancy.
Benets falling due more than 12 months or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund after balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benets relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
d Bonus plans The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses based The amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the on a formula that takes into consideration the profit attributable to dened benefit pension plan is the present value of the dened the Companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
The Group benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
gains or losses and past service costs.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using e Holiday pay the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the The Group recognises an appropriate liability for the cost dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting the of holiday entitlements not taken at the balance sheet date.
estimated future cash outows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which N Inventories the benets will be paid, and that have terms to maturity Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Cost of inventory is determined on a first-in first-out basis.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses immediately The cost of nished goods and work in progress comprises raw in the statement of recognised income and expense.
material, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overhead based on normal operating capacity but excludes Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless borrowing costs.
the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting Completed properties for resale relates to unsold periods period.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a and properties within the Groups US Holidays division which straight line basis over the vesting period.
operates a time-share business discontinued operations only.
For dened contribution plans, the Group pays contributions Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans course of business, less the cost of completion and selling on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
When necessary, provision is made for obsolete no further payment obligations once the contributions have and slow-moving inventories.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised O Taxation including deferred tax as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the Current tax is applied to taxable profits at the rates ruling in the future payments is available.
b Share-based compensation Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based on temporary differences arising between the tax bases compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised statements.
However, if deferred tax arises from the initial as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options business combination that at the time of the transaction affects granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each balance date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
48 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 1 General information and accounting policies continued T Discontinued operations and non-current assets held for sale Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable Operations of the Group are recognised as discontinued that future taxable profit will be available against which the operations if the operations have been disposed of or meet the temporary differences can be utilised.
criteria to be classied as held for sale.
Operations held for sale are held at the lower of their carrying amount on the dates they Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a are classied as held for sale and fair value less costs to sell.
legally enforceable right to set off current taxation assets against current taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held on a net basis.
for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled its present condition.
Management must be committed to the by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
completed sale within one year from the date of classication.
P Cash and cash equivalents U Dividends Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the call with banks, other short term highly liquid investments with period end are not recognised in the financial statements until original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
V Exceptional items Q Trade receivables The Group defines exceptional items as those non-recurring items Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount, including which by their nature or size would distort the comparability of value added tax, less an estimate made for doubtful receivables the Groups result from year to year.
based on a review of all outstanding amounts at the period end and on historical performance.
Bad debts are written off during W New standards and interpretations not applied the period in which they are identied.
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these Management assesses the maturity of instalment sale debtors financial statements: and notes receivable and consequently reports them as current, Effective date if falling due within one year, or non-current, as appropriate IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 discontinued operations only.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of R Borrowings Financial Statements: Borrowings are recognised at cost, which is deemed to be Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007 materially the same as the fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Any difference between proceeds and redemption In addition, IFRIC have issued the following standards and value is recognised in the income statement using the effective interpretations that are not applicable to The Rank Group Plc: interest method.
IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29 Borrowings are classied as current liabilities unless the Group IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 has unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for IFRIC 9 Re-assessment of embedded derivatives at least 12 months at the balance sheet date.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements S Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will have to disclose additional information about its financial instruments, their Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity signicance and the nature and extent of risks to which they give share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including rise to.
More specically the Group will need to disclose the fair any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity detail.
There will be no effect on reported income or net assets.
holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of the other received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction standards and interpretations listed above will have a material costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of attributable to the Companys equity holders.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 49 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting Primary reporting format business segments Mecca Top Rank Espaa 2006 2005 2006 2005 restated restated m m m m Continuing operations Segment revenue 261.7 264.0 31.1 31.6 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 63.2 77.9 8.9 10.0 Exceptional operating profit costs 37.7 Segment result 100.9 77.9 8.9 10.0 Finance costs Finance income Amortisation of equity component of convertible bond Foreign exchange gain loss on inter-company loans including hedging profit before taxation Taxation profit for the year from continuing operations Assets and liabilities Segment intangible assets: Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives 19.6 19.9 Intangible assets with nite useful lives 0.6 0.6 Property, plant and equipment 106.2 216.7 23.9 20.6 Financial assets investments Other segment assets including cash 31.5 28.9 3.6 3.6 Total segment assets 138.3 246.2 47.1 44.1 Unallocated assets Total assets continuing operations Assets of disposal group held for sale see note 7 Hard Rock and US Holidays assets 2005 Total assets Total segment liabilities 38.9 39.3 7.1 6.2 Unallocated liabilities Total liabilities continuing operations Liabilities of disposal group held for sale see note 7 Hard Rock and US Holidays liabilities 2005 Total liabilities Net assets Other segment items continuing operations Capital expenditure 16.3 13.7 5.5 2.0 Depreciation and amortisation 12.1 12.5 1.8 1.6 Impairment losses 8.6 0.6 The 2005 comparatives have been restated to reclassify US Holidays and Hard Rock to discontinued operations.
The continuing operations qualies as a reportable segment under IAS 14 Segment reporting.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives include 53.8m 2005: 53.8m goodwill relating to Blue Square.
Segmental information for discontinued operations is disclosed in note 7.
Furthermore Top Rank Espaa also now The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 51 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued Total revenue and profit loss from continuing and discontinued operations Revenue profit loss for the year 2006 2005 2006 2005 restated restated m m m m From continuing operations 549.6 529.8 114.5 15.1 From discontinued operations see note 7 488.5 963.3 4.5 223.6 1,038.1 1,493.1 119.0 208.5 At 31 December 2006, the Groups continuing operations are organised on a worldwide basis into six main business segments.
The activities of each segment are described on pages 8 to 17 of the Operating and financial review.
Mecca Bingo Top Rank Espaa Grosvenor Casinos Blue Square Gaming shared services Other includes primarily central costs and expenses relating to non-trading properties There are immaterial sales between the business segments.
Unallocated costs represent corporate expenses.
Segment assets include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, stocks, receivables, retirement benefit asset and operating cash.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables and exclude taxation, corporate borrowings and retirement benefit obligations which are managed centrally, plus non-current trade and other payables and provisions.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets.
At 31 December 2006 the assets and liabilities of Hard Rock were classied as discontinued operations held for sale.
For segmental reporting purposes, at 31 December 2005 the assets and liabilities of Hard Rock and US Holidays were included as separate lines below assets and liabilities from continuing operations.
52 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 2 Segmental reporting continued Secondary reporting format geographical segments The Group manages its business segments on a global basis.
The operations are based in three main geographical areas.
The UK is the home country of the parent.
The main operations in the principal territories are as follows: UK North America Europe Year ended 31 December 2006 North Rest of UK America Europe the World Total m m m m m Revenue 564.0 329.9 138.8 5.4 1,038.1 Less sales attributable to discontinued operations see note 7 58.7 329.9 94.5 5.4 488.5 Segment revenue from continuing operations 505.3 44.3 549.6 Other segment information Segment assets including cash 505.6 33.9 76.3 615.8 Unallocated assets 9.7 Total assets continuing operations 625.5 Assets of disposal groups held for sale see note 7 242.0 Total assets 867.5 Capital expenditure relating to continuing operations 44.0 6.2 50.2 Year ended 31 December 2005 North UK America Europe Total m m m m Revenue 662.7 644.9 185.5 1,493.1 Less sales attributable to discontinued operations see note 7 177.4 644.9 141.0 963.3 Segment revenue from continuing operations 485.3 44.5 529.8 Other segment information Segment assets including cash 584.7 30.8 72.9 688.4 Unallocated assets 62.5 Total assets continuing operations 750.9 Assets of disposal groups held for sale see note 7 512.1 Hard Rock and US Holidays 245.1 Total assets 1,508.1 Capital expenditure relating to continuing operations 24.9 3.3 28.2 With the exception of the UK, USA and Spain, no individual country contributed more than 10% of consolidated sales or assets.
Analysis of revenue by category continuing operations 2006 2005 m m Sales of goods 31.1 33.6 Rendering of services 518.5 496.2 Total 549.6 529.8 Segmental revenue by destination is not materially different from revenue by origin.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 53 Notes to the financial statements continued 3 profit for the year The following items have been included in arriving at profit for the year: 2006 2005 restated m m Employee benets expense 168.7 164.4 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 43.2 41.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets including 21.7m 2005: 21.5m within cost of sales 24.3 24.3 under finance leases included within cost of sales 1.1 1.4 Amortisation of intangibles including 0.4m 2005: 0.6m within cost of sales 3.5 3.1 Foreign exchange gain loss on inter-company loans including hedging 10.0 16.0 Operating lease rentals payable minimum lease payments 34.5 31.6 sub-lease income 8.4 10.2 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 9.8 3.8 profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 6.3 0.5 Auditors remuneration for audit services 1.0 1.7 The above table includes continuing operations only.
In the year the Groups auditors,  LLP, including its network rms, earned the following fees: 2006 2005 m m Audit services Fees payable to Company auditor for the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.5 Other services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.6 1.2 services relating to corporate finance transactions 2.5 2.3 tax services 0.2 0.4 other services 0.6 0.1 3.8 5.0 68,000 2005: 60,000 of the audit fees related to the parent company.
It is the Groups policy to employ  LLP on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and experience with the Group are important, principally in the areas of transaction services, stock exchange transactions and tax advice.
The Groups policy is, where appropriate, that work is put out to competitive tender.
The Audit Committee monitors the relationship with  LLP, including the level of non-audit fees.
54 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 4 Exceptional items 2006 2005 Note m m Exceptional items relating to continuing operations profit on sale and leaseback transaction 55.3 profit on disposal of Clermont Club 13.0 Loss on sale of investment 12.1 Provision for onerous leases on vacant properties 12.1 Financing charge 14.7 3.6 Taxation 6 25.2 24.3 Exceptional items relating to continuing operations 66.7 8.6 Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations US Holidays 20.0 Deluxe Media Services 136.5 Deluxe Film 150.4 Taxation 6 3.0 20.8 Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations 17.0 266.1 Total exceptional items 49.7 257.5 The Group defines exceptional items as those non-recurring items which by their size or nature would distort the comparability of the Groups result from year to year.
2006 exceptional items Continuing operations During the year, the Group completed a sale and leaseback and exit of surplus properties, for net proceeds of 171.9m.
The exceptional pre-tax profit arising was 55.3m.
On 1 December 2006 the Group disposed of its Clermont Club for proceeds of 31.0m.
The exceptional pre-tax profit arising on disposal was 13.0m.
The Group incurred an exceptional loss of 12.1m on the disposal of its investment in Universal Studios Japan.
This loss had been previously recognised in reserves and is now recycled in net profit on its realisation.
During the year, the Group incurred a 14.7m exceptional charge on the early repayment of the US private placement, as a consequence of the renancing following the sale of its Deluxe businesses.
Discontinued operations On 15 December 2006 the Group disposed of its US Holidays business for proceeds equivalent to 16.8m.
The exceptional pre-tax loss arising on disposal was 20.0m.
2005 exceptional items Continuing operations In light of the reduced opportunities presented by the 2005 Gambling Act, the Group reviewed its onerous lease provision against vacant properties.
As a result of this review and other events occurring in the year the Group recognised an onerous lease charge of 12.1m within continuing operations.
During the year, the Group incurred exceptional charge on the early repayment of the US private placement, nancing costs of 3.6m as a result of the closure of an outstanding issue with the tax authorities.
Discontinued operations The Group disposed of the Deluxe Film business on 27 January 2006.
At 31 December 2005, the Group wrote down the carrying value of the Deluxe Film business to net sales proceeds less future cash costs to sell including the Groups Section 75 pension obligation.
In addition, the Group incurred transaction costs relating to the disposal which are also included within exceptional items.
The total pre-tax exceptional charge incurred was 150.4m.
The Group disposed of Deluxe Media Services in component parts in 2006 see note 7.
In 2005 the Group reported a pre-tax 136.5m exceptional charge which included the revision to the expected net realisable value of the Deluxe Media Services business 80.2m, European restructuring costs 27.5m and US bad debt costs and restructuring costs 28.8m.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 55 Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Financing 2006 2005 restated m m Continuing operations: Finance costs: Interest payable on bank borrowings current and non-current 3.0 1.6 Amortisation of issue costs of bank loan 1.8 1.6 Interest payable on other loans 29.3 41.1 Interest payable on finance leases 1.3 1.4 Unwinding of discounts in provisions 0.8 1.2 Total interest expense and similar charges 36.2 46.9 Finance income 3.2 6.9 Net finance cost 33.0 40.0 Foreign exchange gain loss on inter-company loans including 3.6m hedging gain 2005: 2.1m 10.0 16.0 Amortisation of equity component of convertible bond 3.0 3.0 Total net nancing cost for continuing operations before exceptional items 26.0 59.0 Exceptional nancing costs see note 4 14.7 3.6 Total net nancing cost for continuing operations 40.7 62.6 6 Taxation 2006 2005 restated m m Current income tax on continuing operations Current tax UK 1.3 21.6 Current tax overseas 5.6 4.3 Current tax charge 4.3 25.9 Current tax on exceptional items 8.7 24.3 Amounts over under provided in previous year 2.2 6.9 Total current tax 6.6 8.5 Deferred tax on continuing operations Deferred tax UK 0.7 6.5 Deferred tax overseas 1.4 8.8 Deferred tax on exceptional items 16.5 Amounts under over provided in previous year 3.6 10.1 Total deferred tax 15.0 7.8 Tax credit charge in the income statement on continuing operations 21.6 0.7 In 2006 current tax on exceptional items within continuing operations includes a tax credit of 4.4m relating to exceptional nancing costs and a tax credit of 4.3m relating to transferred lease liabilities in respect of surplus properties.
In 2006 deferred tax on exceptional items includes a tax credit of 11.4m which relates to the sale and leaseback of properties, and 5.1m on the sale of the Clermont Club licence during the year.
The credits arise due to previously unrecognised losses.
In 2005 tax on exceptional items within continuing operations includes a tax credit of 19.6m which has arisen as a result of the closure of an outstanding issue with the tax authorities and 4.7m tax credits relating to the exceptional charge.
56 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 6 Taxation continued 2006 2005 restated m m Current income tax on discontinued operations Current tax UK 6.9 18.4 Current tax overseas 2.9 7.9 Current tax credit charge 4.0 26.3 Current tax on exceptional items 20.8 Amounts under over provided in previous year 1.4 6.8 Total current tax 2.6 1.3 Deferred tax on discontinued operations Deferred tax UK 2.2 5.5 Deferred tax overseas 3.8 21.4 Deferred tax on exceptional items 3.0 Amounts under over provided in previous year 0.5 3.9 Total deferred tax 3.5 23.0 Tax charge on discontinued operations 0.9 21.7 The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the standard rate of UK corporation tax 30%.
The differences are explained below: 2006 2005 restated m m profit before tax on continuing operations 92.9 15.8 profit before tax at 30% 2005: 30% 27.9 4.7 Effects of: Income expenses not subject to tax 12.9 17.8 Difference in overseas tax rates 0.5 1.0 Adjustments relating to prior years 1.4 22.8 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 21.5 Deferred tax movement on fair valued assets 17.0 Total taxation continuing operations 21.6 0.7 Tax on items included in equity 2006 2005 m m Current tax charge credit on exchange movements offset in reserves 21.7 13.3 Deferred tax charge credit on actuarial gain loss on dened benefit pension scheme 17.4 2.4 Tax credit on non-qualifying leasehold property 4.3 39.1 20.0 Income from joint ventures and associates, included in discontinued operations, includes a 0.2m tax credit 2005: 0.6m charge.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 57 Notes to the financial statements continued 7 Discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale Discontinued operations in 2006 include Hard Rock, US Holidays, Deluxe Media Services and Deluxe Film.
As a result, revenue relating to these businesses is excluded from the income statement and the results, including any associated exceptional costs, are recorded in a single line on a post-tax basis.
The Deluxe Film sale completed on 27 January 2006 and the US Holidays sale completed on 15 December 2006.
On 7 December 2006, the Group announced that it had reached agreement with Seminole Hard Rock Entertainment Inc. to sell Hard Rock.
The disposal was approved by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 8 January 2007 and completed on 5 March 2007.
In June 2006 Deluxe Media Services sold its UK DVD replication and distribution businesses for net consideration of approximately 6m and in July 2006 sold its UK CD replication business for net consideration of approximately 3m.
In December 2006 the Group sold all remaining Deluxe Media Services businesses in Europe for an aggregate consideration of approximately 1m and reached agreements with the remaining customers to terminate its media replication and distribution services in the US.
A breakdown of the results of discontinued operations is shown below.
2006 Deluxe Total Media Deluxe discontinued Hard Rock US Holidays Services Film operations m m m m m Revenue 271.2 28.0 163.1 26.2 488.5 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 40.4 2.1 13.9 1.5 30.1 Exceptional items see note 4 20.0 20.0 Operating profit loss 40.4 17.9 13.9 1.5 10.1 Share of post-taxation loss income from joint ventures and associates 1.3 0.1 1.2 Net nancing charge 2.6 0.9 3.5 profit loss before taxation 36.5 17.9 14.8 1.6 5.4 Taxation 0.4 3.7 5.3 2.9 0.9 Net profit loss 36.9 21.6 9.5 1.3 4.5 Other segment information: Depreciation and amortisation 12.7 0.7 13.4 Capital expenditure 7.7 1.8 1.4 2.6 13.5 2005 restated Deluxe Total Media Deluxe discontinued Hard Rock US Holidays Services Film operations m m m m m Revenue 250.1 30.4 267.1 415.7 963.3 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 34.8 2.2 16.4 65.7 86.3 Exceptional items see note 4 136.5 150.4 286.9 Operating profit loss 34.8 2.2 152.9 84.7 200.6 Share of post-taxation loss income from joint ventures and associates 1.4 0.8 0.6 Net nancing charge credit 0.7 1.0 1.0 0.7 profit loss before taxation 32.7 2.2 153.9 82.9 201.9 Taxation 4.3 0.1 3.3 14.0 21.7 Net profit loss 28.4 2.1 157.2 96.9 223.6 Other segment information: Depreciation and amortisation 13.3 0.7 17.8 31.8 Capital expenditure 16.8 1.1 10.3 31.7 59.9 The 2005 results have been restated to treat Hard Rock and US Holidays as discontinued operations in accordance with IFRS 5.
58 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 7 Discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale continued Cash ows relating to the discontinued operations are as follows: 2006 Deluxe Total Media Deluxe discontinued Hard Rock US Holidays Services Film operations m m m m m Cash ows from operating activities 45.0 3.0 53.0 18.5 7.5 Cash ows from investing activities 17.5 1.8 0.1 2.6 21.8 Cash ow from nancing activities 4.4 0.1 9.2 0.1 13.8 23.1 4.9 62.1 15.8 28.1 2005 restated Deluxe Total Media Deluxe discontinued Hard Rock US Holidays Services Film operations m m m m m Cash ows from operating activities 44.8 5.5 23.3 35.1 62.1 Cash ows from investing activities 3.2 1.1 17.7 48.9 70.9 Cash ow from nancing activities 1.3 0.3 4.8 0.7 4.5 42.9 4.1 45.8 14.5 13.3 Assets and liabilities relating to the disposal groups held for sale are as follows: 2006 2005 Deluxe Media Deluxe Hard Rock Services Film Total m m m m Intangible assets 6.6 7.6 7.6 Property, plant and equipment 105.2 68.2 68.2 Financial assets investments 52.2 10.3 10.3 Inventories 13.0 8.0 18.8 26.8 Receivables 65.0 61.4 337.8 399.2 Assets held for sale 242.0 69.4 442.7 512.1 Loan and capital borrowing 5.2 11.7 1.6 13.3 Payables due within one year 33.7 69.8 65.2 135.0 Provisions 4.6 43.7 0.7 44.4 Payables greater than one year reclassied as current 1.0 0.8 15.6 16.4 Liabilities held for sale 44.5 126.0 83.1 209.1 Hard Rock did not meet the criteria of IFRS 5 to be classied as held for sale at 31 December 2005.
At 31 December 2006 the fair value less costs to sell of Hard Rock exceeded the carrying amount.
Immediately before classication as a disposal group the carrying amounts of all the assets and liabilities were measured in accordance with applicable IFRS.
Intangible assets relating to Hard Rock include goodwill of 6.1m arising on the 13.8m acquisition of Universal Studios minority interest in the Orlando and Hollywood Hard Rock Cafes on 31 December 2006.
In 2005, the loss made on remeasuring the disposal groups to fair value less costs to sell amounted to 80.2m for Deluxe Media Services and 150.4m for Deluxe Film.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 59 Notes to the financial statements continued 8 Results attributable to the parent company The loss for the financial year in the financial statements of The Rank Group Plc was 25.2m 2005: 603.3m profit.
As permitted by s230 Companies Act 1985, no income statement is presented in respect of The Rank Group Plc.
9 Dividends 2006 2005 m m Equity ordinary Final for 2005 paid on 11 May 2006 10.3p 2004: 9.8p per share 62.6 61.1 Interim for 2006 paid on 13 October 2006 2.0p 2005: 5.0p per share 11.5 31.4 74.1 92.5 In addition, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006 of 4.0p per share which will absorb an estimated 15.6m of shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 11 May 2007 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 27 April 2007.
In accordance with IFRS, the final dividend has not been accounted for as a liability as at 31 December 2006.
Following the sale of Hard Rock, a special dividend of 65.0 pence per share, will be paid no later than 9 April 2007 to shareholders on the register at 23 March 2007.
The payment of the special dividend is conditional on the share consolidation detailed in note 24 taking place.
The special dividend and related share consolidation, was approved at an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 8 January 2007.
10 Earnings loss per share Continuing operations 2006 2005 restated Basic earnings per share Before exceptional items 8.1p 1.0p After exceptional items 19.5p 2.4p Diluted earnings per share Before exceptional items 8.1p 1.0p After exceptional items 19.5p 2.4p Discontinued operations 2006 2005 restated Basic earnings loss per share Before exceptional items 3.4p 6.7p After exceptional items 0.4p 36.0 p Diluted earnings loss per share Before exceptional items 3.4p 6.6p After exceptional items 0.4p 35.9 p Total 2006 2005 Basic earnings loss per share Before exceptional items 11.5p 7.7p After exceptional items 19.9p 33.6 p Diluted earnings loss per share Before exceptional items 11.5p 7.6p After exceptional items 19.9p 33.5 p Adjusted earnings per share 5.1p 5.4p 60 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 10 Earnings loss per share continued Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held by the Company note 24, which are treated as cancelled.
2006 2005 restated Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Adjusted earnings m see below 30.0 30.0 33.6 33.6 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares millions 587.5 587.5 587.5 624.5 624.5 624.5 Adjusted earnings per Ordinary share 5.1p 5.1p 5.4p 5.4p Basic earnings loss m 67.5 49.7 117.2 47.8 257.5 209.7 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares millions 587.5 587.5 587.5 624.5 624.5 624.5 Basic earnings loss per Ordinary share 11.5p 8.4p 19.9p 7.7p 41.3 p 33.6 p Basic earnings m continuing operations 47.8 66.7 114.5 6.5 8.6 15.1 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares millions 587.5 587.5 587.5 624.5 624.5 624.5 Basic earnings per Ordinary share continuing operations 8.1p 11.4p 19.5p 1.0p 1.4p 2.4p Basic earnings loss less attributable minority interest m discontinued operations 19.7 17.0 2.7 41.3 266.1 224.8 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares millions 587.5 587.5 587.5 624.5 624.5 624.5 Basic earnings loss per Ordinary share discontinued operations 3.4p 3.0 p 0.4p 6.7p 42.7 p 36.0 p Details of the proposed share consolidation in 2007 are disclosed in note 24.
Diluted For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary shares.
The Group has one class of dilutive potential Ordinary shares namely those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys Ordinary shares during the year.
Options are dilutive at the profit from continuing operations level and so, in accordance with IAS 33, have been treated as dilutive for the purpose of diluted earnings per share.
2006 2005 restated Basic earnings loss attributable to equity holders of the Company m 117.2 209.7 Discontinued operations, including attributable minority interest m 2.7 224.8 Earnings attributable to equity holders of the Company from continuing operations m 114.5 15.1 Earnings used to determine diluted earnings per share m 114.5 15.1 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue millions 587.5 624.5 Adjustments for share options millions 0.5 1.5 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share millions 588.0 626.0 Diluted earnings per share on continuing operations 19.5p 2.4p Adjusted earnings Adjusted earnings is calculated by excluding earnings relating to discontinued operations, exceptional items, foreign exchange on inter-company balances including hedging and amortisation of interest relating to equity component of convertible bond from basic earnings.
Adjusted earnings is one of the business performance measures used internally by management to manage the operations of the business.
Management believes that adjusted earnings reects the underlying performance of the business and assists in providing a view of the fundamental strength of the Group.
Adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders is derived as follows: 2006 2005 restated m m Net profit loss attributable to equity shareholders 117.2 209.7 Discontinued operations net of taxation and minority interest 2.7 224.8 Exceptional items before tax on continuing operations 41.5 15.7 Foreign currency gain loss on inter-company balances including hedging 10.0 16.0 Amortisation of equity component of convertible bond 3.0 3.0 Taxation on adjusted items 36.0 16.2 Adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders 30.0 33.6 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 61 Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Intangible assets Casino and other gaming Goodwill licences Other Total Group m m m m Cost At 1 January 2005 134.1 114.6 34.1 282.8 Acquisitions through business combinations 5.7 0.5 6.2 Additions 6.4 6.4 Disposals 0.6 0.6 Fair value adjustments 2.5 0.3 1.0 1.8 Classied as held for sale 91.4 15.3 106.7 Exchange adjustments 7.9 0.6 2.5 9.8 At 31 December 2005 53.8 114.2 28.1 196.1 Additions 4.0 4.0 Disposals 0.7 0.7 Businesses disposed 16.6 0.1 16.7 Fair value adjustments 0.4 0.1 0.5 Classied as held for sale 7.0 7.0 Exchange adjustments 0.4 1.0 1.4 At 31 December 2006 53.8 96.8 23.2 173.8 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2005 12.0 18.5 30.5 Charge for the period 5.6 5.6 Impairment losses 79.2 0.4 79.6 Disposals 0.6 0.6 Classied as held for sale 91.4 7.7 99.1 Exchange adjustments 0.2 1.7 1.9 At 31 December 2005 17.9 17.9 Charge for the period 3.8 3.8 Impairment losses 0.5 0.5 Disposals 0.5 0.5 Classied as held for sale 6.3 6.3 Exchange adjustments 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 2006 14.5 14.5 Net book value at 31 December 2005 53.8 114.2 10.2 178.2 Net book value at 31 December 2006 53.8 96.8 8.7 159.3 Other assets comprise brands, other licences, computer software and development technology and customer lists.
Included within other assets are 1.5m 2005: 1.7m of internally generated computer software and development technology.
Fair value adjustments of 0.5 m in 2006 2005: 1.8 m relate to the nalisation of provisional fair value adjustments relating to acquisitions primarily in respect of contingent consideration and deferred tax losses.
indefinite life intangible assets have been reviewed for impairment as set out in note 13.
62 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 12 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, ttings, Land and plant & Assets in buildings machinery construction Total Group m m m m Cost At 1 January 2005 516.9 466.4 29.2 1,012.5 Exchange adjustments 18.5 23.0 2.6 44.1 Additions at cost 10.2 57.3 11.5 79.0 Business acquired 0.2 1.7 0.2 2.1 Disposals 1.3 14.4 15.7 Property, plant and equipment write off 16.9 11.6 28.5 Classied as held for sale 63.4 139.6 19.3 222.3 Inter-group reclassication 8.8 13.4 22.2 At 31 December 2005 473.0 396.2 2.0 871.2 Exchange adjustments 17.1 14.3 0.3 31.7 Additions at cost 7.0 47.1 1.2 55.3 Disposals 162.5 28.7 191.2 Property, plant and equipment write off 6.0 0.8 6.8 Classied as held for sale 126.3 89.7 0.9 216.9 Businesses disposed 24.5 27.8 1.3 53.6 Inter-group reclassication 1.0 0.3 0.7 At 31 December 2006 144.6 281.7 426.3 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2005 161.8 273.6 435.4 Exchange adjustments 8.8 13.6 22.4 Charge for the year 14.8 40.1 54.9 Impairment losses 72.3 72.3 Property, plant and equipment write off 16.2 10.2 26.4 Disposals 0.6 13.6 14.2 Classied as held for sale 20.3 133.8 154.1 At 31 December 2005 148.3 242.0 390.3 Inter-group transfer 1.1 1.1 Exchange adjustments 8.5 9.8 18.3 Charge for the year 10.9 27.7 38.6 Impairment losses 3.3 6.0 9.3 Property, plant and equipment write off 6.0 0.8 6.8 Businesses disposed 18.5 24.3 42.8 Disposals 26.2 23.8 50.0 Classied as held for sale 56.7 55.0 111.7 At 31 December 2006 47.7 160.9 208.6 Net book value at 31 December 2005 324.7 154.2 2.0 480.9 Net book value at 31 December 2006 96.9 120.8 217.7 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 63 Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Property, plant and equipment continued Assets held under finance leases, capitalised and included in land and buildings and xtures, ttings, plant and machinery: 2006 2005 m m Cost 20.6 34.4 Accumulated depreciation 9.6 15.5 Net book value 11.0 18.9 The book amounts for xtures, ttings, plant and machinery include assets held under finance leases with a net book value of 0.3m 2005: 5.0m.
The book amounts for land and buildings include buildings held under finance leases with a net book value of 10.7m 2005: 13.9m.
The net book amount of land and buildings comprises: 2006 2005 m m Freeholds 41.8 191.3 Long leases over 50 years unexpired 1.6 14.1 Short leases 53.5 119.3 96.9 324.7 13 Impairment review Impairment review of intangible assets with indefinite lives As stated in the accounting policies note sections K and L assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
The Group classies goodwill and casino and other gaming licences as indefinite life assets.
a Goodwill Blue Square The Group has goodwill with a carrying value of 53.8m in respect of the acquisition of Blue Square 2005: 53.8m.
As at 31 December 2006 management does not believe that the carrying value of the Blue Square goodwill was impaired as the value in use exceeded the carrying value of goodwill by 16.8m 2005: 12.1m.
The whole of Blue Square is treated as a single cash-generating unit and is tested for impairment on that basis.
The recoverable amount of the goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash ow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board for the next financial year along with projections for the following four years from the Groups Strategic Plan which was also approved by the Board.
No growth is applied to cash ows beyond year five.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash ow projections is 11.3% 2005: 10.4%.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The calculation of value in use for Blue Square is most sensitive to the following assumptions: settled stakes: gross win margins: and discount rates.
Settled stakes are based on monies placed by customers for the sportsbook and gaming businesses.
Management takes into account the product mix, major sporting events and industry developments when determining settled stakes.
Gross win margins are based on values achieved in the past and amended for any anticipated changes in the budget period.
Discount rates reect managements estimate of the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Management believes that the Groups weighted average cost of capital is an appropriate measure as there is no funding directly attributable to that group of assets.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions With regard to the assessment of value in use of Blue Square, there are possible changes in key assumptions that could cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
Settled stakes may be affected by inter alia a decrease in customers, a decrease in marketing spend, a change in technology, competition or regulatory changes Gross win margins may be affected by the results of sporting events, odds setting or by changes in legislation to the gaming industry Gross win is calculated by applying the win margin to stakes placed.
If gross win were to decrease by 2.2m each year the value in use would equal the carrying value of the cash-generating unit.
64 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 13 Impairment review continued b Casino and other gaming licences Grosvenor The inherent value of casino licences is deemed to be an intrinsic part of value of the operation of casinos as a whole and is not therefore split out from total casino assets in an impairment review.
The cost of casino licences as at 31 December 2006 was 77.2m 2005: 94.3m and management does not believe that there is any impairment.
Each Grosvenor casino has been treated as a separate cash-generating unit, and tested for impairment on that basis.
The recoverable amount of each Grosvenor casino including the licence has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash ow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board for the next financial year along with projections for the following four years from the Groups Strategic Plan which was also approved by the Board.
A long term growth rate of 2% was applied thereafter.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash ow projections is 11.3% 2005: 10.4%.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The calculation for the value in use of a casino licence is most sensitive to the following assumptions: admissions: spend per head: discount rate: and competition.
Admissions are the number of discrete visits by members to the casino and have been based on historic trends adjusted for the introduction of advertising.
Spend per head comprises the average amount of money net of winnings spent by a member on gaming tables, machines and food and beverages.
This has been determined by historic trends.
Discount rate reects managements estimate of the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Competition comprises other casinos located in the same geographic area.
The impact of this has been assessed by individual location.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions With regard to the assessment of value in use of casino licences, there are possible changes in key assumptions that could cause the carrying value of individual licences to exceed their recoverable amount.
These are discussed below: Competition from licences granted under the Gambling Act 2005 and Gaming Act 1968 could vary depending upon the number and location of new casinos as well as the date of opening Admissions levels could vary as the exact rules governing the advertising of casinos to be permitted from September 2007 have not been nalised Spend per head may be impacted by the number of new members, changes in gaming legislation and macro economic conditions Management does not believe that there are any reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions that would result in an impairment of a casino licence.
c Spanish bingo licences The inherent value of Spanish bingo licences are deemed to be an intrinsic part of value of the operations as a whole and not therefore split out from Spanish bingo assets in an impairment review.
The cost of Spanish bingo licences as at 31 December 2006 was 19.6m 2005: 19.9m.
Each individual bingo club has been created as a separate cash-generating unit, and tested for impairment on that basis.
The recoverable amount has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash ow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board for the next financial year along with projections for the following four years from the Groups Strategic Plan which was also approved by the Board.
A long term growth rate of 3% was applied thereafter.
The discount rate was the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital, which is consistent with other value in use calculations.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 65 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Impairment review continued Impairment review of property, plant and equipment As stated in the accounting policies note section L if the carrying value of the Groups property, plant and equipment is higher than the estimated recoverable amount the value of those assets is written down.
Assets are grouped into cash-generating units which are dened as individual clubs for Mecca Bingo, Top Rank Espaa and Grosvenor Casinos and the whole of the operation for Blue Square.
Recoverable amount is determined based on a value in use calculation using cash ow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board for the next financial year along with projections for the following four years from the Groups Strategic Plan which was also approved by the Board.
A long term growth rate of 2% was applied thereafter to Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos, 3% to Top Rank Espaa and nil% to Blue Square.
The key assumptions and sensitivities in the impairment reviews for casino assets and licences are set out above.
The key assumption in the impairment review for Mecca Bingo is the impact of the smoking ban introduced in Scotland in 2006 and due for implementation in England and Wales in 2007.
Management believes that the introduction of a smoking ban will result in a short term reduction in income, as seen in other jurisdictions that have introduced a ban.
Its experience in Scotland to date is a 15% income reduction and we believe this pattern will apply to England and Wales.
We anticipate this will be a short term decline that will return to pre-ban levels within three years.
If revenue does not return to pre-ban levels then additional impairments may be required.
The impact on each cash-generating unit is dependent upon various local factors such as customer propensity to smoke, physical lay-out, ability to license external smoking areas for gaming, etc.
Management does not believe it is therefore possible to quantify the financial impact of additional impairments that would be required.
Given the uncertainty of the potential long term impacts of the smoking ban, it is possible that material adjustments to the carrying value of cash-generating units will be required in future years.
2006 Mecca In 2006 an impairment charge of 8.6m has been recognised in respect of a number of clubs where the cash ows associated with those clubs were less than the carrying value of the property, plant and equipment.
Blue Square The operations of the Blue Square betting shop were disposed on 24 August 2006.
Prior to the disposal its intangible assets and property, plant and equipment were impaired by 1.2m.
2005 Grosvenor In 2005 an impairment charge of 3.2m was recognised in respect of the Hard Rock Casino Manchester closed in 2006.
Mecca In 2005 an impairment charge of 0.6m was recognised in respect of a number of clubs where the cash ows associated with those clubs were less than the carrying value of the property, plant and equipment.
66 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 14 Investments Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Investments in joint ventures 1.0 Investments in subsidiaries 1,343.6 1,843.6 Financial assets available-for-sale investments 0.5 46.1 Total investments 0.5 45.1 1,343.6 1,843.6 Financial assets available-for-sale investments Group 2006 2005 m m Listed equity shares fair value 0.5 0.5 Unlisted equity shares fair value 45.6 0.5 46.1 See accounting policies note section G for the accounting policy on financial instruments applied.
Available-for-sale financial assets consist of investments in ordinary shares, which by their nature have no xed maturity date or coupon rate.
The fair value of the listed equity shares has been estimated using valuation guidelines based on market prices.
No fair value gains have been recognised in equity.
Available-for-sale investments comprise 0.5m 2005: 0.5m in respect of the Groups 10% equity investment in Medal Entertainment & Media plc.
The Group disposed of its 8.9m investment in Universal Studios Japan in February 2006.
The other unlisted equity shares and interest in joint ventures in 2005 were owned by the Hard Rock division, which is a disposal group held for sale as at 31 December 2006.
Fair value gains of 22.8m relating to Hard Rock have been recognised in equity 2005: 6.8m.
Investments in subsidiaries Company A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 39.
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost of 1,515.6m 2005: 1,987.4m less provision for impairment of 172.0m 2005: 143.8m.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 67 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Deferred tax The analysis of deferred tax included in the financial statements at the end of the year is as follows: Group 2006 2005 m m Deferred tax assets Accelerated capital allowances 32.5 17.8 Pensions in reserves 12.5 Tax losses carried forward 10.1 42.0 Other overseas timing differences 24.8 Deferred tax assets 42.6 97.1 Deferred tax liabilities Pensions in reserves 10.6 Other overseas timing differences 7.8 Business combinations in reserves non-qualifying properties 3.3 15.1 Other UK timing differences 18.9 19.5 Deferred tax liabilities 40.6 34.6 Net deferred tax asset 2.0 62.5 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current taxation assets and current tax liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities of 32.9m 2005: nil have been offset and disclosed on the balance sheet as follows: 2006 2005 m m Deferred tax asset 9.7 62.5 Deferred tax liability 7.7 Net deferred tax asset 2.0 62.5 The deferred tax assets recognised are recoverable against future taxable profits that the Directors consider more likely than not to occur on the basis of management forecasts.
In addition an unrecognised deferred tax asset of 60.4m 2005: 130.9m existed at 31 December 2006.
This deferred tax asset would be recovered if sufficient taxable profits arose in future in the companies in which the deferred tax asset had not been recognised.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments At 31 December 2006, there was no recognised deferred tax liability 2005: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries, or its associate or joint venture, as: the Group has determined that undistributed profits of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future: the Group has an agreement with its associate that the profits of the associate will not be distributed until it obtains the consent of the Group: the parent company does not foresee giving such consent at the balance sheet date: and the joint venture of the Company cannot distribute its profits until it obtains the consent of the Company.
The parent company does not foresee giving such consent at the balance sheet date.
There are no income tax consequences attaching to the payment of dividends by the Group to its shareholders.
The Company has a deferred tax asset of 0.2m 2005: 1.4m.
68 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 15 Deferred tax continued The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: Group 2006 2005 m m Deferred tax in the income statement Accelerated capital allowances 14.1 3.3 Deferred tax movement on fair valued assets 11.9 Deferred tax asset written off 23.2 Tax losses 1.6 9.0 Share-based payment 0.1 Other timing differences 12.9 4.2 Deferred tax credit expense 11.5 15.2 Deferred tax expense relating to discontinued operations 3.5 23.0 Deferred tax credit on continuing operations 15.0 7.8 Deferred tax on discontinued operations includes deferred tax credits on accelerated capital allowances of 0.2m and tax losses of 5.0m and a deferred tax charge on other timing differences of 8.7m.
The deferred tax movement on the balance sheet is as follows: 2006 2005 m m Net deferred tax asset at 1 January 62.5 59.4 Exchange adjustments 6.6 9.7 Deferred tax credit expense 11.5 15.2 Deferred tax on items included in equity 21.2 6.7 Businesses disposed 0.6 Classied as held for sale 43.6 1.9 Net deferred tax asset at 31 December 2.0 62.5 16 Inventories Group 2006 2005 m m Raw materials 0.5 1.9 Finished goods 3.8 16.4 Completed properties for resale 14.7 4.3 33.0 The Group wrote down nil 2005: nil of inventories.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 69 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Trade and other receivables Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Current Trade receivables 20.8 7.4 Less: provisions for impairment of trade receivables 1.0 3.0 Trade receivables net 19.8 4.4 Amounts owed by related parties all trading balances 4.3 Other receivables 17.4 11.2 0.6 Prepayments and accrued income 19.5 24.8 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings repayable on demand 43.7 80.9 56.7 44.7 44.3 80.9 Non-current Other receivables 8.4 14.0 Instalment sale debtors and note receivable 13.6 Prepayments and accrued income 1.1 8.4 28.7 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
Due to this, management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of normal provision for doubtful receivables.
18 Trade and other payables current Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Trade payables 28.0 41.3 Other tax and social security payable 9.5 5.7 Other payables 54.5 63.2 Accruals 30.1 44.9 1.8 5.6 Deferred consideration 0.1 0.3 Pension fund creditor 3.0 3.4 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings repayable on demand 131.5 374.7 125.2 158.8 133.3 380.3 19 Current tax liabilities Group 2006 2005 m m Corporation tax payable 2.3 2.8 70 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 20 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities comprise the following: Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 restated m m m m Bank overdrafts 8.2 8.3 Derivative financial instruments 4.2 8.3 $105m Private Placement @ LIBOR 1.9% 2007 61.2 $89m Private Placement @ 5.39% 2010 51.8 $134m Private Placement @ 6.11% 2013 78.1 35m Private Placement @ 6.5% 2013 35.0 $60m Private Placement @ 6.31% 2015 35.0 US$100m @ 6.375% Yankee bonds 2008 49.5 56.1 US$14.3m @ 7.125% Yankee bonds 2018 7.3 8.6 167.7m @ 3.875% convertible unsecured loan stock 2009 net of unamortised facility fees and equity component 158.7 154.9 158.7 154.9 Syndicated loan facilities 282.4 328.9 Other including accrued interest and unamortised facility fees 1.5 5.9 2.7 2.7 Obligations under finance leases 16.7 25.9 Financial guarantees 1.1 0.6 Total 525.5 858.0 162.5 158.2 Bank overdrafts 8.2 8.3 Other borrowings repayable: Within one year or on demand 5.2 11.3 3.8 3.3 Between one and two years 292.5 397.3 Between two and five years 201.0 268.2 158.7 154.9 In five years or more 18.6 172.9 Total 525.5 858.0 162.5 158.2 Current 13.4 19.6 3.8 3.3 Non-current 512.1 838.4 158.7 154.9 Total 525.5 858.0 162.5 158.2 Unsecured convertible bond 158.7 154.9 158.7 154.9 Other unsecured borrowings 350.1 677.2 2.7 2.7 Obligations under finance leases secured see note 35 16.7 25.9 Financial guarantees 1.1 0.6 Total 525.5 858.0 162.5 158.2 Undrawn borrowing facilities The Group has had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: Floa Fix 2006 2005 ed ting rate rate Total Total m m m m Expiring within one year Expiring within one or two years 86.1 Expiring in more than two years 367.6 367.6 367.6 367.6 86.1 The analysis of other borrowings repayable includes 158.7m of convertible bonds 2005: 154.9m.
The bond is due in 2009 and is convertible at the option of the holder into fully paid Ordinary shares at 3.764 per share.
Interest is paid half yearly in January and July.
The effective interest rate on the liability portion of the bond is 4.2%.
None of the bonds were converted during the year.
If the conversion rights attached to the bonds outstanding at 31 December 2006 were exercised, 44.6m Ordinary shares would fall to be issued 2005: 44.6m.
Unless previously redeemed or converted, the bonds will be redeemed at par in 2009.
Included in other borrowings repayable are the drawings of the syndicated bank facility 282.4m 2005: 328.9m.
The facility was negotiated on 1 March 2006 and consists of a 250m term loan and 400m revolving credit facility.
The term loan expires in March 2009 and the revolving credit facility in March 2011.
Interest is payable on a monthly basis.
Also included in other borrowings is $114.3m 56.8m 2005: $114.8m 64.7m of Yankee bonds, of which $100m matures in 2008 and $14.3m matures in 2018.
Interest is payable half yearly in January and July.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 71 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Financial liabilities continued The analysis of other borrowings repayable above includes obligations under finance leases, of which 1.7m 2005: 1.6m expire within one year, 0.8m 2005: 3.5m expire between one and two years, 2.6m 2005: 4.6m expire between two and five years, and 11.6m 2005: 16.2m expire after five years.
The funding policy of the Group is to maintain a broad portfolio of debt, diversied by source and maturity, and to maintain committed facilities sufficient to cover seasonal peak anticipated borrowing requirements.
The Company had 158.7m of borrowings at 31 December 2006 2005: 154.9m excluding accrued interest and financial guarantees.
21 Financial instruments A description of the policies relating to financial instruments is set out in the Operating and financial review on page 19 and also in the accounting policies on pages 45 and 46. a Interest risk management Financial liabilities Gross borrowings of 758.6m 2005: 1,450.1m include loan capital and borrowings of 525.5m note 20 2005: 858.0m and the effect of currency and interest rate swaps.
After taking account of interest rate and currency rate swaps, the currency and interest rate exposure of gross borrowings as at 31 December 2006 and 2005 was: Floating Gross rate Fixed rate borrowings borrowings borrowings 2006 m m m Sterling 440.4 264.6 175.8 US Canadian Dollar 223.4 161.3 62.1 Other currencies net 94.8 93.7 1.1 758.6 519.6 239.0 Floating Gro rate Fixes d s rate borrowings borrowings borrowings 2005 m m m Sterling 696.5 478.8 217.7 US Canadian Dollar 598.5 362.4 236.1 Other currencies net 155.1 152.7 2.4 1,450.1 993.9 456.2 At 31 December 2006 the xed interest rates vary from 3.9% to 7.1% 2005: 5.4% to 7.1% and oating rates are LIBOR 1.0% 2005: LIBOR 1.9%.
The gain deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement during the next two years being the life of the swap.
Sterling borrowings above include the 158.7m convertible bond.
A movement of 1.00% in the base interest rate will have a 0.4m effect on interest payable.
In addition to the amounts disclosed in the above tables, the following meet the denition of financial liabilities: the Groups provisions of 7.2m 2005: 37.8m for vacant leasehold properties note 23 are considered to be oating rate financial liabilities.
This is because in establishing the provisions, the cash ows have been discounted using a discount rate which is re-appraised at each half-yearly reporting date to ensure it reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the liability.
7.2m 2005: 32.9m is denominated in Sterling and the balance in 2005 in US and Canadian Dollars.
72 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 21 Financial instruments continued Financial assets The financial assets shown below include cash, cash equivalents, available-for-sale investments and the Sterling element of currency rate swaps.
2006 2005 m m Sterling 62.3 79.0 US Canadian Dollar 16.9 54.2 Other currencies 16.2 35.8 Cash, investments and other financial assets 95.4 169.0 Floating rate cash earns interest based on relevant LIBID equivalents, and investments earn interest according to the performance of the funds in which they are invested.
In addition to the amounts disclosed in the previous tables, the following meet the denition of financial assets: 0.5m 2005: 0.5m of investments in equity shares note 14 have been excluded from the interest rate risk prole as they have no maturity date and would thus distort the weighted average period information.
Fixed rate assets Weighted W av e er ight age time ed To Floating Fix ave for te w a rd r a l h gia e ct h e asset rate asset asset interest rate rate is xed Instalment sale debtors and notes receivable after one year m m m % years 2006 2005 US Dollar 13.6 9.6 4.0 12.2 5.4 Floating rate instalment sale debtors and notes receivable after one year earn interest based on three and five year US treasury bills.
b Maturity of financial liabilities The maturity of loan capital and borrowings is given in note 20.
For other financial liabilities, note 23 provides an indication of the nature of the underlying liabilities in respect of provisions.
The maturity prole of these liabilities, together with deferred consideration, is as follows: Onerous Provisions Deferred Total contracts on disposal Other consideration 2006 2006 m m m m m Within one year or on demand 1.6 10.5 0.6 0.1 12.8 Between one and two years 1.2 35.8 0.6 37.6 Between two and five years 2.3 0.3 2.6 Over five years 2.1 2.1 7.2 46.3 0.6 1.0 55.1 Onerous Provisions Deferred Total contracts on disposal Other consideration 2005 2005 m m m m m Within one year or on demand 10.9 0.5 0.3 11.7 Between one and two years 1.6 1.3 2.9 Between two and five years 7.9 3.8 11.7 Over five years 17.4 17.4 37.8 0.5 3.8 1.6 43.7 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 73 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instruments continued c Exchange risk management After taking into account the effect of forward exchange contracts, there are no material net monetary assets liabilities of Group companies denominated in currencies other than the relevant Group companys own functional currency.
The Group operates a prudent hedging policy relating to its cross currency business trading cash ows.
Currency exposures are netted by currency and hedged forward for up to five years using forward foreign exchange contracts.
The currencies hedged are US Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Euros, Australian Dollars and Japanese Yen.
d Fair values The estimated fair values of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities at 31 December 2006 and 2005 are set out below.
The fair value of quoted borrowings is based on year-end mid-market quoted prices.
The fair values of other borrowings and the derivative financial instruments are estimated by discounting the future cash ows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year-end.
Financial instruments held within discontinued operations, short term debtors and creditors have been excluded from the following disclosures on the basis that their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation to fair value.
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of the Groups financial instruments, excluding those classied under discontinued operations, that are carried in the financial statements: Net carrying Fair Net carrying Fair amount value amount value 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m Short term financial liabilities and current portion of long term borrowings 10.8 10.8 11.3 11.3 Derivative financial instrument liabilities 4.2 4.2 8.3 8.3 Long term borrowings 510.5 510.5 838.4 824.5 Cash at bank and liquid investments 83.6 83.6 117.7 117.7 Derivative financial instrument assets 9.5 9.5 5.2 5.2 The difference between net carrying amount and estimated fair value reects unrealised gains or losses inherent in the instruments based on valuations at 31 December 2006.
The volatile nature of the markets means that values at any subsequent date could be signicantly different from the values reported above.
Long term borrowings above include the 158.7m 2005: 154.9m of convertible bonds.
The fair value of the guarantees issued by the Company is 1.1m 2005: 0.6m.
This is calculated by applying the Company's probability of default, derived from the Company's credit rating, to the 31 December 2006 drawn debt of subsidiaries guaranteed by the Company.
e Financial derivative instruments As explained in the operating and financial review on page 19, the Groups policy is to hedge the following exposures: interest rate risk, using Interest rate swaps, currency swaps and cap and collar: and currency risk, using foreign exchange contracts and currency options for foreign currency receipts and payments.
Forward foreign currency contracts are also used for currency exposures on future years forecasted sales.
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m Cross currency swap net investment hedge 1.5 4.1 Cross currency swap inter-company loan hedge held for trading 4.3 2.5 2.6 1.3 Cross currency swap quasi equity hedge 1.8 0.7 0.1 Interest rate swap fair value hedge 1.6 2.1 Interest rate cap and collar held for trading 0.2 0.1 Forward foreign exchange contract held for trading 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.6 Fair value of derivative used to hedge ows from continuing operations 6.4 4.2 5.2 8.3 Currency option cash ow hedge 3.1 9.5 4.2 5.2 8.3 74 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 21 Financial instruments continued e Financial derivative instruments continued Nominal values of derivative financial instruments The nominal values of derivative financial instruments and designated for hedges at 31 December 2006 were: 2006 m US$m AUS$m dm m CAN$m Cross currency swap net investment hedge Cross currency swap inter-company loan hedge held for trading 128 138 Cross currency swap quasi equity hedge 98 Interest rate swap fair value hedge 100 Interest rate cap and collar held for trading 50 Forward foreign exchange contract held for trading 11 Currency option cash ow hedge 675 2005 m US$m AUS$m am m CAN$m Cross currency swap net investment hedge 45 120 11 220 Cross currency swap inter-company loan hedge held for trading 245 180 Cross currency swap quasi equity hedge 120 Interest rate swap fair value hedge 100 Interest rate cap and collar held for trading 50 Forward foreign exchange contract held for trading 20 69 Currency option cash ow hedge f Fair value hedge The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2006 was US$100m 2005: US$100m.
The interest rate swaps hedge the interest due on the 2008 Yankee bonds, which is paid in January and July each year.
g Cash ow hedges The Group entered into a currency option to hedge the receipt of US Dollar proceeds from the sale of Hard Rock in March 2007.
The nominal value of the option at 31 December 2006 was $675m 2005: nil with a fair value of 3.1m 2005: nil.
h Quasi equity hedges The Group has hedged the translation risk on its quasi equity inter-company loans using a series of cross currency swaps.
The nominal value of the swaps at 31 December 2006 was a98m 2005: a120m, with a net fair value of 1.8m 2005: 0.6m.
i Derivatives held for trading The retranslation of the inter-company loan balances across the Group are hedged using a series of cross currency swaps.
The nominal value of the swaps at 31 December 2006 was $128m and a138m 2005: $245m and a180m, with a net fair value of 1.8m 2005: 1.3m.
There were 1.6 m derivatives outstanding at the balance sheet date that were designated as fair value hedges 2005: 2.1 m, relating to interest rate swaps.
j Credit risk The counterparties to the forward foreign exchange contracts, cross currency swaps, currency option and term deposits are major international financial institutions with strong credit ratings.
The Group continually monitors its positions and the credit ratings of its counterparties.
The Group is exposed to 578.6m 2005: 584.0m of credit risk on derivative fair value assets and 103.4m 2005: 122.1m on trade and other receivables and cash, should the counterparty default.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 75 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Other non-current liabilities Group 2006 2005 m m UK corporation tax and overseas taxation 31.5 28.2 Deferred consideration 0.9 1.3 Accruals 0.5 1.5 32.9 31.0 23 Provisions for other liabilities and charges One Provision rous contracts on disposal Other Total Group m m m m At 1 January 2006 37.8 0.5 3.8 42.1 Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.1 Charged to the income statement 2.5 17.6 20.1 Utilised in year 28.3 15.4 3.2 46.9 Classied to held for sale 5.6 5.6 Classied from held for sale 43.7 43.7 Unwinding of discount 0.8 0.8 At 31 December 2006 7.2 46.3 0.6 54.1 Current 1.6 10.5 0.6 12.7 Non-current5.635.8 41.4 Total 7.2 46.3 0.6 54.1 Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 2006 2005 m m Current 12.7 11.4 Non-current 41.4 30.7 54.1 42.1 Provisions have been discounted at a risk free interest rate of 5% where the effects of ination will have a material impact.
Further details on the maturity prole of provisions are provided in note 21.
Onerous contracts The Group is party to a number of leasehold property contracts.
Provision has been made against those leases where the property is now vacant and the unavoidable costs under the lease exceed the economic benefit expected to be derived from potential sub-letting arrangements.
The provision made in the year includes costs relating to properties which have become surplus to requirements, discounted at an appropriate discount rate.
The provision utilised in the year includes the amounts provided in relation to onerous leases that were disposed of in August 2006 as part of the sale and leaseback transaction.
Provisions on disposals This provision was established following the disposal of Rank Leisure Machine Services, Deluxe Film, US Holidays and Deluxe Media Services.
The provision held at 31 December 2006 relates to the following categories: Outstanding insurance claims relating to the period of ownership by the Group.
Closure costs for businesses that have been sold including contractual obligations to provide transitional services post sale for a dened period and onerous property lease obligations.
Warranty provisions for potential claims as a consequence of the sale or closure of businesses, including environmental exposures.
Other provisions Other provisions comprise legal provisions.
Legal provisions comprise legal fees and expected settlement costs.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Company At 1 January 2006, the Company held a legal provision of 1.0m.
During the year 0.4m was utilised leaving a provision at 31 December 2006 of 0.6m.
76 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 24 Share capital 2006 Authorised 2005 Authorised Nominal Nominal Number value Number value mm mm US$ cumulative preference shares 3 Convertible preference shares of 20p each 300 60 Ordinary shares of 10p each 1,800 180 1,200 120 1,800 180 1,500 183 2006 2005 Issued and fully paid Issued and fully paid Nominal Nominal Number value Number value mm mm As at 1 January 626.0 62.6 624.1 62.4 Shares issued in the year 2.9 0.2 1.9 0.2 Share buy-back 86.5 8.6 As at 31 December 542.4 54.2 626.0 62.6 202,852 2005: 202,852 Ordinary shares in the Company are held by the Rank Group Employee benefit Trust the Trust.
These owned shares are deducted from equity in accordance with IAS 32 and not disclosed as an investment.
Dividends on the shares held by the Trust have been waived by the trustee with the exception of one penny in total.
The Trust may make such investments in the shares of the Company or otherwise as the trustees may determine to provide benets to any eligible employee.
The benets may be provided in the form of shares, cash or otherwise, although any share related benefit will be provided in accordance with an appropriate employee share scheme or bonus scheme of the Company.
The shares held by the Trust represent less than 0.1% of the Companys called-up share capital.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the income statement of the Company in the period to which they relate.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2006 was 0.5m 2005: 0.6m.
On 26 April 2006, the Companys shareholders approved a resolution at the Annual General Meeting for the Company to subdivide and re-designate the unissued convertible preference shares as Ordinary shares and to cancel the unissued US$ preference shares.
Share buy-back On 26 April 2006, the Companys shareholders approved a resolution at the Annual General Meeting for the Company to make market purchase of its Ordinary shares.
During the financial year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 86.5m Ordinary shares at an average price of 2.31 per share, with a nominal value of 8.6m, for a consideration of 201.4m.
Consideration included stamp duty and commission of 1.4m.
This represents 14% of called-up share capital at the beginning of the financial year.
Share consolidation In conjunction with the special dividend disclosed in note 9, shareholders will receive 18 new Rank shares for every 25 existing Rank shares.
Each new share will carry the same rights as are set out in the Articles of Association for each existing share.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 77 Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Statement of changes in shareholders equity Exchange Share Share Capital translation Other capital premium redemption reserve reserves Total Minority Total Group m m m m m m m m Balance as at 1 January 2005 62.4 88.3 24.8 21.2 253.2 407.5 8.7 416.2 Exchange adjustments net of tax 45.0 45.0 1.5 46.5 Actuarial loss on dened benefit pension scheme net of tax 13.4 13.4 13.4 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 6.8 6.8 6.8 Tax on non-qualifying leasehold property 4.3 4.3 4.3 Issue of share capital 0.2 4.8 5.0 5.0 Dividends 92.5 92.5 92.5 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 3.7 3.7 3.7 Net loss profit for the year 209.7 209.7 1.2 208.5 Balance as at 31 December 2005 62.6 93.1 24.8 23.8 47.6 156.7 11.4 168.1 Exchange adjustments net of tax 28.3 28.3 1.0 29.3 Actuarial gain on dened benefit pension scheme net of tax 64.7 64.7 64.7 Revaluation of available-for-sale securities 22.8 22.8 22.8 Revaluation of available-for-sale securities recycled within net profit 12.1 12.1 12.1 Net minority interest acquired 8.1 8.1 Issue of share capital 0.2 5.0 5.2 5.2 Share buy-back 8.6 8.6 201.4 201.4 201.4 Dividends 74.1 74.1 4.1 78.2 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 0.4 0.4 0.4 Net profit for the year 117.2 117.2 1.8 119.0 Balance as at 31 December 2006 54.2 98.1 33.4 4.5 105.9 75.3 75.3 The reserves of subsidiary undertakings have generally been retained to finance their businesses.
Other reserves comprise retained losses of 157.6m 2005: 67.4m, fair value reserves of 44.2m 2005: 9.3m and the 7.5m 2005: 10.5m unamortised element of the equity component of the convertible bond.
Share Share Capital Other capital premium redemption reserves Total Company m m m m m Balance as at 1 January 2005 62.4 88.3 24.8 694.7 870.2 Issue of share capital 0.2 4.8 5.0 Dividends 92.5 92.5 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 1.8 1.8 Net profit for the year 603.3 603.3 Balance as at 31 December 2005 62.6 93.1 24.8 1,207.3 1,387.8 Effects of amendment to IAS 39 0.6 0.6 Balance as at 1 January 2006 as restated 62.6 93.1 24.8 1,206.7 1,387.2 Issue of share capital 0.2 5.0 5.2 Share buy-back 8.6 8.6 201.4 201.4 Dividends 74.1 74.1 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 0.1 0.1 Net loss for the year 25.2 25.2 Balance as at 31 December 2006 54.2 98.1 33.4 906.1 1,091.8 Following the amendment to IAS 39 relating to financial guarantees, the Company has recognised a liability of 0.6m in respect of guarantees provided to subsidiary undertakings on external borrowings.
Other reserves comprise retained earnings of 738.8m 2005: 537.0m, the 7.5m 2005: 10.5m unamortised element of the equity component of the convertible bond and an unrealised profit reserve of 159.8m 2005: 659.8m.
78 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 26 Minority interest 2006 2005 m m At 1 January 11.4 8.7 Exchange adjustments 1.0 1.5 Share of net profit 1.8 1.2 Dividend paid 4.1 Minority interest acquired 7.7 Minority interest disposed 0.4 At 31 December 11.4 Details of the minority interest acquired are disclosed in note 7.
27 Cash ow from operating activities Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inow from operating activities: Cash generated from operations Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 restated m m m m Continuing operations Operating profit loss 133.6 78.4 0.6 0.7 Exceptional items 56.2 12.1 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 77.4 90.5 0.6 0.7 Depreciation and amortisation 28.9 28.8 Increase decrease in working capital 3.7 13.7 0.7 4.0 Other 4.7 1.1 0.5 0.6 107.3 131.9 0.8 4.1 Cash payments in respect of exceptional costs and provisions 37.0 29.5 0.4 70.3 102.4 1.2 4.1 Discontinued operations 12.7 72.9 Cash generated from operations 83.0 175.3 1.2 4.1 28 Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 79.9 106.7 0.1 0.8 Current asset investments 3.7 11.0 Total cash 83.6 117.7 0.1 0.8 For the purpose of the cash ow statements, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December: Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Total cash 83.6 117.7 0.1 0.8 Bank overdrafts 8.2 8.3 75.4 109.4 0.1 0.8 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 79 Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Borrowings to net debt reconciliation Under IFRS IAS 32, accrued interest and unamortised facility fees are classied as borrowings.
In addition, net debt which is part of the assets and liabilities held for sale is disclosed separately.
A reconciliation of net borrowings disclosed in the balance sheet to the Groups net debt position is provided below: Group 2006 2005 m m Borrowings, net of cash 437.7 732.0 Amounts disclosed within disposal groups 5.2 13.3 Net accrued interest and unamortised facility fees 4.3 5.9 Net debt 447.2 739.4 30 Post balance sheet events The Group entered into a sale and purchase agreement to sell the Hard Rock business for $965m, subject to certain completion adjustments.
The sale was approved by shareholders at the EGM on 8 January 2007 and completed on 5 March 2007.
The disposal will generate a significant profit.
On 14 February 2007 the Group announced its intention to close nine Mecca Bingo clubs in England and Wales.
The decision to close is in line with the Groups stated aim of improving the quality of its clubs portfolio in preparation for the introduction of the smoking ban in England and Wales in 2007.
In addition the Group sold its Mecca Bingo club in Hounslow in February 2007.
The closures and sale are not anticipated to have a material impact on the Groups results.
31 Disposals of businesses 2006 Deluxe Film Clermont US Holidays DMS Total m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 68.3 1.0 9.8 79.1 Intangible assets 4.7 16.6 0.1 21.4 Inventories 17.2 14.3 3.4 34.9 Trade and other receivables 320.7 0.1 11.8 41.5 374.1 Investments 10.1 10.1 Trade and other payables 86.8 3.1 19.2 109.1 Other provisions 2.3 0.4 1.9 Net assets disposed 331.9 17.7 32.9 26.1 408.6 profit loss on disposal before tax 13.0 20.0 7.0 Other related costs and provision utilisation 40.9 1.6 16.3 26.2 Section 75 Pension contribution 24.0 24.0 Minority interest 0.4 0.4 Sales consideration 396.4 30.7 14.5 9.8 451.4 Sales proceeds less related costs 394.1 31.0 16.8 12.0 453.9 Overdrafts and cash disposed with businesses 0.7 0.3 2.3 2.2 4.1 Borrowings disposed 1.1 1.1 Lease obligations disposed 0.5 0.5 Sales consideration 396.4 30.7 14.5 9.8 451.4 Sale proceeds less related costs 453.9 Overdrafts and cash disposed with businesses 4.1 Proceeds from sale of businesses per cash ow 449.8 80 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 32 Employees and Directors a Employee benefit expense for the Group during the year 2006 2005 m m Wages and salaries 273.3 383.9 Social security costs 28.9 39.1 Other pension costs 4.5 5.3 Share-based payments 0.5 4.2 307.2 432.5 The Company has no employees.
The Directors of the Group are paid by a subsidiary undertaking.
b Average monthly number of employees by segment 2006 2005 Gaming 8,888 9,524 Hard Rock 6,900 6,862 Deluxe 2,534 7,163 Resorts 627 724 Other 53 50 19,002 24,323 c Key management compensation 2006 2005 m m Salaries and short term employee benets 3.2 3.9 Termination benets 1.7 Post employment benets 0.5 0.5 Share-based payments 0.5 1.0 5.9 5.4 Key management is dened as the Directors of the Group and the Executive Committee.
In addition to the executive Directors, the 2006 Executive Committee comprised Hamish Dodds Managing Director Hard Rock, Pamela Coles Company Secretary and Christine Ray Group Human Resources Director until 31 October 2006.
The composition of the Executive Committee from 1 January 2007 is set out on page 23.
Details of the remuneration of each Director are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 26 to 32 which form part of these financial statements.
d Directors interests The Directors interests in shares or stocks of the Company, including options to purchase Ordinary shares under the terms of the Groups Executive Share Option Scheme, and conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan, are detailed in the Remuneration report.
Details of options to subscribe for Ordinary shares of the Company granted to or exercised by Directors in the year ended 31 December 2006 are also detailed in the Remuneration report.
e Total emoluments of the Directors of The Rank Group Plc 2006 2005 m m Aggregate emoluments 3.9 2.4 Aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options 0.1 Number of Directors accruing benets under dened benefit schemes 2 3 Further details of emoluments received by Directors are included in the Remuneration report.
The 2005 comparative includes 0.2m of emoluments in respect of two Directors who resigned in 2005.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 81 Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Share-based payments During the year ended 31 December 2006, the Company operated the ShareSave SAYE scheme, the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and a supplemental bonus opportunity.
Details of these schemes are included on pages 27 and 28 of the Remuneration report.
These options have not been subsequently modied and therefore are not required to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
82 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 33 Share-based payments continued The share options outstanding at the year-end have the following range of exercise prices and expiry dates as follows: Outstanding at Outstanding at 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 Weighted Weighted average Number average Number Exercise remaining of shares Exercise remaining of shares prices contractual under prices contractual under range life option range life option ESOS 155.25p435.82p 5.5 years 11,812,842 155.25p475.76p 6.7 years 12,129,249 ShareSave 3 year 187.00p268.00p 2.8 years 2,648,740 191.00p268.00p 1.4 years 3,033,616 ShareSave 5 year 141.00p268.00p 3.9 years 1,431,167 141.00p268.00p 2.9 years 2,581,567 The estimated fair values for each of the ESOS and ShareSave awards granted were calculated using a Black-Scholes pricing model with the inputs detailed below.
The fair value of the LTIP was calculated using a Monte Carlo model approach, and indicates the proportion of shares likely to vest, taking into account the Total Shareholder Return performance requirements.
For grants made subject to an EPS performance condition, the expense is based on expectations of these conditions being met, which are reassessed at each balance sheet date.
2006 2005 Risk-free interest rate % 4.5% 4.75% Expected life of options ESOS 3 years 4 years Expected life of award LTIP 3 years 3 years Expected life of options ShareSave 3 or 5 years 3 or 5 years Expected share price volatility % 28.06% 33.66% Expected dividend growth % 5.25% 4.86% The expected life of the ESOS was based on managements best estimate of the exercise pattern of optionholders taking into account exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The expected life of the LTIP and ShareSave are determined by the performance period and savings terms respectively.
The expected share price volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the four calendar years prior to each grant.
The expected dividend growth is based on historical dividend payments in the year prior to grant, expressed as a percentage of the weighted average share price for that year.
As such, this is based on historical data and does not necessarily indicate future dividend policy.
The weighted average fair value per share of awards granted during the year was as follows: 2006 2005 ESOS 37.13p 60.94p LTIP 236.00p 275.50p ShareSave 3 year 67.45p 84.03p ShareSave 5 year 57.45p 82.25p Accounting for share-based payments in accordance with IFRS 2 reduced the Groups profit for the year by 0.5m 2005: 4.2m.
National Insurance contributions are payable by the Company in respect of some of the share-based payments.
These contributions are payable on the date of exercise based on the intrinsic value of the share-based payments, and as such are treated as cash-settled awards.
The Group has recorded liabilities at the end of 2006 of 0.4m 2005: 1.0m of which nil was in respect of vested grants.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 83 Notes to the financial statements continued 34 Retirement benefit obligations UK The Group has two pension schemes for UK employees.
The schemes are externally funded under separate trusts and the funds assets are held separately from Group assets.
The accounts of both schemes for the year ended 5 April 2006 have been reported upon by their auditors without qualication.
UK Rank Pension Plan The Rank Pension Plan the Plan is a dened benefit scheme with pensions xed by reference to final pay and length of service.
Formal actuarial valuations of the Plan are carried out at least triennially by an independent actuary, Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited.
The most recent valuation was undertaken as at 5 April 2004.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Plan has been updated by an independent actuary to 31 December 2006.
Details of the Plans liabilities and assets under IAS 19 are: 2006 2005 2004 m m m Assets 711.0 636.5 556.4 Liabilities 635.2 674.7 587.5 Net dened benefit pension asset liability 75.8 38.2 31.1 The actuarial valuation of the Plan as at 5 April 2006 is ongoing and preliminary analysis indicates a deficit of approximately 100m under a buy-out basis.
Change in benefit obligation 2006 2005 m m benefit obligation at beginning of year 674.7 587.5 Current service cost 5.8 5.4 Interest cost 31.1 30.6 Past service cost 1.4 1.3 Plan members contributions 1.5 1.9 Actuarial gain loss 51.2 75.9 Curtailment 4.9 Benets paid 28.1 23.0 benefit obligation at end of year 635.2 674.7 Change in plan assets 2006 2005 m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 636.5 556.4 Expected return on plan assets 37.8 33.6 Actuarial gains 6.9 60.1 Total actual return on plan assets 44.7 93.7 Employer contributions includes benets paid and reimbursed Section 75 contribution 24.0 Other 32.4 7.5 Member contributions 1.5 1.9 Benets paid by fund and Company 28.1 23.0 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 711.0 636.5 The estimated employer contributions expected to be paid to the Plan in 2007 are 24.8m.
84 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 34 Retirement benefit obligations continued Components of pension cost 2006 2005 m m Current service cost 5.8 5.4 Interest cost 31.1 30.6 Expected return on plan assets 37.8 33.6 Amortisation of prior service cost 1.4 1.3 Curtailment 4.9 Total pension charge credit recognised in operating profit in the income statement 0.5 1.2 Statement of recognised income and expense SORIE 2006 2005 m m Actuarial gains and losses immediately recognised Experience gains and losses 39.7 Changes in assumptions 11.5 75.9 Actual return less expected return in assets 6.9 60.1 Section 75 contribution 24.0 Total pension credit expense recognised in the SORIE before taxation 82.1 15.8 Taxation 17.4 2.4 Total pension credit expense recognised in the SORIE 64.7 13.4 The cumulative amount of gains and losses recognised in the SORIE was 95.9m 2005: 13.8m.
Experience gains and losses recognised in 2004 was a gain of 63.8m.
During 2006 the Group, in accordance with Section 75, paid 24.0m to the UK Rank Pension Plan, following the sale of Deluxe Film.
The cost was recognised in 2005 as a deduction from the fair value less costs to sell calculated on classication of Deluxe Film as a disposal group.
On payment to the Plan, the amount has been recognised back through the statement of recognised income and expense.
Plan assets The weighted-average asset allocations at the year-end were as follows: 2006 2005 Market Expected Market Expected value return value return Investment category m % p. a. m % p. a.
Equities UK and overseas 281.2 7.6 378.9 6.6 Government bonds 280.9 4.6 112.9 4.1 Non-Government bonds 130.3 5.1 117.0 4.7 Insured pensions 12.6 5.1 16.0 4.7 Cash 6.0 5.0 11.7 4.5 Total 711.0 5.9 636.5 5.7 To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption, the Company considered the current level of expected returns on risk free investments primarily Government bonds, the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class.
The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the actual asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
This resulted in the selection of the 5.9% assumption 2005: 5.7%.
As at 31 December 2006 the Plan was undergoing a change in investment strategy.
The 281.2m equity holding is due to be moved to diversied growth assets equities, GTAA, infrastructure and hedge funds.
The 280.9m government bond exposure includes 117.9m cash with a swap overlay designed to increase the Plan exposure to bonds.
The weighted return as at 31 December 2006 allows for these changes in the Plans investment strategy, with an assumption that the growth assets as a whole will outperform the risk free rate by 3.0% p. a.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 85 Notes to the financial statements continued 34 Retirement benefit obligations continued Assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at: 2006 2005 % p. a.
Yield pre retirement 5.1 4.7 Yield post retirement 5.1 4.7 Price ination 3.0 2.8 Salary growth 4.2 4.0 Pension increases 5% LPI 3.0 2.8 Weighted average assumptions used to determine net pension expense for year ended: 2007 2006 2005 % % % Discount rate 5.1 4.7 5.3 Expected long term return on plan assets 5.9 5.7 6.1 Rate of compensation increase 4.2 4.0 4.0 Mortality tables used to determine benefit obligations at: 2006 2005 Current pensioner PA92 YOB mc PA92 YOB 1935 mc 1 Active preserved member PA92 YOB mc PA92 YOB 1965 mc 1 Other UK pension commitments During the year to 31 December 2006 the Group contributed a total of 1.3m 2005: 2.7m to the Rank Money Purchase Pension Scheme the Scheme which closed to future contributions on 5 April 2006 and the Rank Group Stakeholder Pension Plan which replaced the Scheme on 6 April 2006: both of these are dened contribution schemes with benets which depend on the contribution levels and the emerging investment performance.
There were no significant contributions outstanding.
The Group has an unfunded pension commitment relating to three former executives of the Group.
The provision is calculated using a basis consistent with the assumptions used to value the funded dened benefit plan in the UK.
At 31 December, the Groups commitment was 3.0m 2005: 3.4m.
The Group paid 0.4m 2005: 0.1m in pension payments during the year.
US The Group operates dened contribution schemes in the US.
Group contributions to these schemes totalled 2.7m 2005: 3.7m.
Total At 31 December 2006 there was a net pension surplus of 72.8m of which 75.8m relates to the Plan, and 3.0 m relates to the unfunded UK commitment.
86 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006
