The Remuneration Committee Relations with shareholders The Remuneration Committee is comprised solely of independent The Company maintains an active dialogue with its institutional non-executive Directors.
Until the Annual General Meeting in shareholders and city analysts through a planned programme of April 2006, the Committee was chaired by John Sunderland and investor relations, and regular meetings are held with principal its other members were Richard Greenhalgh and Oliver Stocken.
The outcome of these meetings is reported to the From then onwards it was chaired by Richard Greenhalgh with whole Board to ensure it keeps in touch with shareholder opinion.
Bill Shannon and John Warren being its other members.
The The programme includes formal presentations of the interim and Remuneration Committee meets not less than twice a year and the full year results.
is responsible for determining the remuneration packages of the Chairman, the executive Directors, and other members of the All shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General Executive Committee.
Details of the Remuneration Committees Meeting and private investors are encouraged to take advantage deliberations during 2006 are contained in the Remuneration of the opportunity given to ask questions.
The Chairmen of the report on pages 26 to 32, which also summarises the Companys Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees attend the remuneration policy and contains details of Directors remuneration.
meeting and are available to answer questions, as appropriate.
The Committee met formally three times during 2006.
A summary presentation of the Companys results and development plans is given by the Chief Executive at the Attendance Annual General Meeting prior to the commencement of Details of attendances actual, and possible in brackets of the formal business of that meeting.
Directors and Committee members at the principal Board and Committee meetings held in 2006 were as follows: Compliance with the Code provisions Save in respect of the composition of the Nominations Committee Board Audit RemCo NomCo Finance until 3 April 2006, which is referred to above, and the length Total 11 Total 4 Total 3 Total 3 Total 31 of the notice periods which for an initial period of one year exceeded 12 months of the newly-appointed Chief Executives Alun Cathcart 11 11 2 3 24 31 1 and Finance Directors service contracts, the Company has, David Boden 3 3 2 throughout the year, complied with the provisions of the Code.
Ian Burke 9 9 2 2 26 28 Peter Gill 11 11 30 31 Risk management and internal control Richard Greenhalgh 11 11 3 3 3 3 The Board maintained the procedures necessary to comply with Brendan ONeill 10 11 4 4 2 2 the requirements of the existing code relating to internal control 3 Bill Shannon 7 9 2 2 2 2 1 1 as described in the October 2005 publication entitled Internal 4 Mike Smith 2 2 3 3 Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code 5 Oliver Stocken 3 3 3 3 1 1 Turnbull Report.
In relation to Code provision C. 2.1, the Board 6 John Sunderland 2 3 1 3 1 1 reports below on the procedures that have been applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
John Warren 11 11 4 4 2 2 2 2 Notes The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for 1.
Appointed 6 March 2006 identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced 3.
Appointed 3 April 2006 by the Company.
The process has been in place throughout the 4.
Resigned 6 March 2006 year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and 5.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board 6.
Resigned 26 April 2006 and accords with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report.
In the few instances when a Director was not able to attend Board or Committee meetings, his comments on the papers The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Groups system of internal control, for setting policy on internal to be considered at that meeting were relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman.
control and for reviewing the effectiveness of internal control.
The role of management is to implement Board policies on risk The Executive Committee and control.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business The Executive Committee is not a committee of the Board.
Its role is to assist the Chief Executive in fullling his responsibilities objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
for directing and promoting the profitable operation and development of the Group, consistent with the primary objective Considerable importance is placed on maintaining a strong of creating long term shareholder value.
The names of its current members, and the positions that they hold within the Company, control environment.
In particular, there is a simple organisational structure with clearly drawn lines of accountability and delegation are set out on page 23. of authority: adherence to specified codes of conduct is required at all times and the Board actively promotes a culture of quality Accountability and audit The process by which the Board applies the principles of and integrity.
accountability and audit is set out below, including a statement of the Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial A new risk assessment process was established during the year.
This risk assessment process identies the key strategic, statements.
operational, financial and compliance risks that the business faces.
It includes an analysis of the likelihood and impact for each of the risks identied.
For the key risks action plans have been developed and are monitored as part of managements procedures.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 35
