RECKITT 23-64:RECKITT 23-64 7 3 07 02:03 Page 55 Parent company independent auditors report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser plc We have audited the parent company financial We read other information contained in the Opinion statements of Reckitt Benckiser plc for the year Annual Report and consider whether it is In our opinion: ended 31 December 2006 which comprise consistent with the audited parent company the parent company financial statements give the balance sheet and the related notes.
The other information a true and fair view in accordance with United parent company financial statements have been comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting prepared under the accounting policies set out Chief Executives Review, the Business Review Practice, of the state of affairs of the therein.
We have also audited the information 2006, the Report of the Directors including Company as at 31 December 2006: in the Directors Remuneration Report that statements on Corporate Governance, the is described as having been audited.
unaudited part of the Directors Remunerationthe parent company financial statements Report, the biographies of the Board of Directors and the part of the Directors Remuneration We have reported separately on the Group and Executive Committee, and the Shareholder Report to be audited have been properly financial statements of Reckitt Benckiser plc information.
prepared in accordance with the Companies for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Act 1985: and We consider the implications for our report if Respective responsibilities of we become aware of any apparent misstatementsthe information given in the Directors Directors and auditors or material inconsistencies with the parent Report is consistent with the parent The Directors responsibilities for preparing company financial statements.
Our responsibilities company financial statements.
the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration do not extend to any other information.
Report and the parent company financial  LLP statements in accordance with applicable law Basis of audit opinion Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and United Kingdom Accounting Standards We conducted our audit in accordance with London United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting International Standards on Auditing UK and 19 March 2007 Practice are set out in the statement of Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, The maintenance and integrity of the Reckitt of evidence relevant to the amounts and Our responsibility is to audit the parent company Benckiser website is the responsibility of the disclosures in the parent company financial financial statements and the part of the Directors Directors: the work carried out by the auditors statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance does not involve consideration of these matters Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and, accordingly, the auditors accept no includes an assessment of the significant and International Standards on Auditing UK responsibility for any changes that may have estimates and judgements made by the and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, occurred to the financial statements since they Directors in the preparation of the parent has been prepared for and only for the were initially presented on the website.
company financial statements, and of whether Companys members as a body in accordance the accounting policies are appropriate to the Legislation in the United Kingdom governing with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 Companys circumstances, consistently applied the preparation and dissemination of financial and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving and adequately disclosed.
statements may differ from legislation in this opinion, accept or assume responsibility other jurisdictions.
for any other purpose or to any other person We planned and performed our audit so as to whom this report is shown or into whose to obtain all the information and explanations hands it may come save where expressly agreed which we considered necessary in order by our prior consent in writing.
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent We report to you our opinion as to whether the company financial statements and the part parent company financial statements give a true of the Directors Remuneration Report to be and fair view and whether the parent company audited are free from material misstatement, financial statements and the part of the whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Directors Remuneration Report to be audited error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated have been properly prepared in accordance with the overall adequacy of the presentation of the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you information in the parent company financial whether in our opinion the information given statements and the part of the Directors in the Directors Report is consistent with the Remuneration Report to be audited.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 55
