RECKITT 23-64:RECKITT 23-64 7 3 07 02:03 Page 24 Accounting policies Accounting policies for the year ended The following standards, amendments and Foreign currency translation 31 December 2006 interpretations are effective for accounting Items included in the financial statements The principal accounting policies adopted in periods ending after 1 January 2006, but are of each of the Groups entities are measured the preparation of these financial statements not relevant to the Groups operations: using the currency of the primary economic are set out below.
Unless otherwise stated, environment in which the entity operates IAS 21 Amendment Net investment these policies have been consistently applied the functional currency.
The consolidated in foreign operations.
to all the years presented.
financial statements are presented in sterling, IAS 39 Amendment The fair value option.
which is the Companys functional currency.
Basis of preparation These financial statements have been preparedIAS 39 and IFRS 4 Amendment First time Foreign currency transactions are translated in accordance with EU endorsed International adoption of international financial reporting into the functional currency using exchange Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and standards and IFRS 6 Amendment Exploration rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
International Financial Reporting Interpretations for and evaluation of mineral resources.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting Committee IFRIC interpretations, and with from the settlement of foreign currency IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of those parts of the Companies Act 1985 transactions and from the translation at period mineral resources.
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
end exchange rates of monetary assets and These financial statements have been preparedIFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement liabilities denominated in foreign currencies under the historical cost convention, as modified contains a lease.
are recognised in the income statement, by the revaluation of financial assets and except where hedge accounting is applied.
IFRIC 5 Rights to interests arising for liabilities at fair value through the Group income decommissioning, restoration and The accounts of overseas subsidiary undertakings statement.
A summary of the Groups more environmental rehabilitation funds.
are translated into sterling on the following basis: important accounting policies is set out below.
The following standards and interpretations Assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange The preparation of financial statements that are not yet effective and have not been early ruling at the year end date.
conform to IFRS requires management to make adopted by the Group: estimates and assumptions that affect theProfit and loss account items at the average reported amounts of assets and liabilities at theIFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and rate of exchange for the period.
balance sheet date and revenue and expenses related amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Exchange differences arising from the translation during the reporting period.
These will be applied of the net investment in foreign entities, and estimates are based on managements best by the Group with effect from 1 January 2007 of borrowings and other currency instruments knowledge at the time, actual amounts may and will result in changes to the disclosure of designated as hedges of such investments, are ultimately differ from those estimates.
financial instruments presented in the Annual taken to shareholders equity on consolidation.
There is, however, no Basis of consolidation impact on the classification, recognition or The currencies that most influence these The accounts of the Group represent the valuation of the Groups financial instruments.
translations and the relevant exchange consolidation of Reckitt Benckiser plc and rates were: its subsidiary undertakings.
In the case IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 will be applied from 2006 2005 full year full year of acquisitions and disposals of businesses, 1 January 2007, although it is not expected the results of trading are consolidated from to have any impact on the Groups Annual Average rates: or to the date upon which control passes.
Euro 1.4672 1.4621 US dollar 1.8436 1.8192 Inter-company transactions, balances andIFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach Closing rates: unrealised gains on transactions between under IAS 39 Financial Reporting in Euro 1.4841 1.4525 Group companies have been eliminated Hyperinflationary Economies and IFRIC 9 US dollar 1.9589 1.7187 on consolidation.
Unrealised losses have also Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives are been eliminated to the extent that they do not not relevant to the Group.
Property, plant and equipment represent an impairment of a transferred asset.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments is expected to be Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost Subsidiaries accounting policies have been adopted assuming EU endorsement with less accumulated depreciation and impairment, changed where necessary to ensure consistency effect from 1 January 2009.
It may lead to with the exception of freehold land, which with the policies adopted by the Group.
changes in the determination of the Groups is shown at cost less impairment.
Cost includes The results and net assets of the Groups disclosed segments.
expenditure that is directly attributable to the subsidiary in Zimbabwe have been excluded acquisition of the asset.
Except for freehold IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and from the consolidated Group results.
This is land, the cost of property, plant and equipment Impairment applied with effect from on the basis that the Group does not consider is written off on a straight line basis over the 1 January 2007 and IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group the Zimbabwean business to be a subsidiary due period of the expected useful life of the asset.
and Treasury Share Transactions will be to the loss of power to govern the financial and For this purpose, expected lives are determined applied with effect from 1 January 2008 operating policies of the Zimbabwean business within the following limits: have no impact on the Groups Annual Report due to the restrictions on remitting funds out and Accounts.
Freehold buildings: not more than 50 years: of the country.
Results for 2005 and 2006, and the balance sheets as at 31 December 2005 IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements Leasehold land and buildings: the lesser and 31 December 2006, were insignificant.
is not relevant to the Groups operations.
of 50 years or the life of the lease: and Owned plant and equipment: not more than 15 years.
In general, production plant and equipment and office equipment are written off over ten years or less: motor vehicles and computer equipment over five years or less.
24 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 RECKITT 23-64:RECKITT 23-64 7 3 07 02:03 Page 25 Assets residual values and useful lives of the Groups strategy is to invest in building Value in use is calculated with reference to the are reviewed, and adjusted if necessary, its brands through an ongoing programme future cash flows expected to be generated at each balance sheet date.
Property, plant of product innovation and sustained and rising by an asset or group of assets where cash flows and equipment are reviewed for impairment marketing particularly media investment.
are not identifiable to specific assets.
The if events or changes in circumstances indicate Within Reckitt Benckiser, a brand typically discount rate used in brand impairment reviews that the carrying amount may not be appropriate.
comprises an assortment of base products is based on the Groups weighted average cost Freehold land is reviewed for impairment on and more innovative products.
Both contribute of capital including, where appropriate, an an annual basis.
to the enduring nature of the brand.
The base adjustment for the specific risks associated products establish the long-term positioning with the relevant asset.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property, of the brand while a succession of innovations plant and equipment are determined by Inventories attracts ongoing consumer interest and attention.
comparing the assets carrying value with Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net Indefinite life brands are allocated to the cash any sale proceeds, and are included in the realisable value.
Cost comprises materials, direct generating units to which they relate and are income statement.
labour and an appropriate portion of overhead tested annually for impairment.
expenses based on normal operating capacity.
Business combinations The Directors also review the useful economic Net realisable value is the estimated selling price The purchase method is used to account for the life of brands annually, to ensure that their less applicable selling expenses.
Identifiable net assets economic lives are still appropriate.
If a brand is acquired including intangibles in a business Trade receivables considered to have a finite life, its carrying value combination are measured initially at their fair Trade receivables are initially recognised at is amortised over that period.
values at the acquisition date.
If there is objective evidence that the Payments made in respect of product registration Group will not be able to collect the full amount The excess of the cost of the acquisition over and distribution rights are capitalised where the of the receivable an impairment is recognised the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities rights comply with the above requirements for through the income statement.
The impairment and contingent liabilities acquired including recognition of acquired brands.
If the registration is calculated as the difference between the intangibles is recorded as goodwill.
or distribution rights are for a defined time carrying value of the receivable and the present The cost of an acquisition is measured as the period, the intangible asset is amortised over value of the related estimated future cash fair value of the assets given, equity instruments that period.
If no time period is defined the flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
issued if any, and liabilities assumed or incurred intangible asset is treated in the same way The amount of any impairment is recognised at the date of acquisition, plus costs directly as acquired brands.
Acquired computer software licences are Cash and cash equivalents The results of the subsidiaries acquired are capitalised at cost.
These costs are amortised Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash included in the Group financial statements over three years.
balances and other deposits with a maturity from the acquisition date.
of less than three months when deposited.
Research and development For the purpose of the cash flow statement, Goodwill and intangible fixed assets Research expenditure is written off in the year bank overdrafts that form an integral part of the Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of in which it is incurred.
Groups cash management and are repayable an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups Development expenditure is written off in the on demand, are included as a component share of the net identifiable assets of the year in which it is incurred, unless it meets of cash and cash equivalents.
acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
the requirements of IAS 38 to be capitalised Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries since Borrowings and then amortised over the useful life of 4 January 1998 is included in intangible assets.
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised the developed product.
During 2006 3m Goodwill written off to reserves prior to this initially at fair value less attributable transaction 2005 4m of development expenditure has date has not been reinstated.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestbeen assessed as meeting the requirements allocated to the cash generating units to which bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost of IAS 38 and so has been capitalised within it relates and is tested annually for impairment.
with any difference between cost and redemption other intangible assets.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated value being recognised in the income statement impairment losses.
Restructuring charges over the period of the borrowings on an effective Where certain material, non-recurring expenses interest basis.
An acquired brand is only recognised on the are incurred during a period, for example balance sheet as an intangible asset where Income tax relating to the integration of an acquired it is supported by a registered trademark, is Income tax on the profit for the year comprises business or the reconfiguration of the Groups established in the marketplace, brand earnings current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised activities, these expenses are recognised on are separately identifiable, the brand could be in the income statement except to the extent a separate line in the income statement.
sold separately from the rest of the business that it relates to items recognised directly The Group also presents an alternative, adjusted and where the brand achieves earnings in in equity, when the income tax is also then basis, earnings per share calculation, to exclude excess of those achieved by unbranded products.
the impact of the restructuring charge.
The value of an acquired brand is determined Current tax is the expected tax payable on by allocating the purchase consideration of Impairment of assets the taxable income for the year, using tax rates an acquired business between the underlying Assets that have indefinite lives are tested enacted, or substantially enacted, at the balance fair values of the tangible assets, goodwill, annually for impairment.
All assets are tested for sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable brands and other intangible assets acquired.
impairment if there is an event or circumstance in respect of previous years.
that indicates that their carrying value may Brands are not generally amortised, as it is not be recoverable.
If an assets carrying value considered that their useful economic lives are exceeds its recoverable amount an impairment not limited.
This policy is appropriate due to the loss is recognised in the income statement.
The stable long-term nature of the business and the recoverable amount is the higher of the assets enduring nature of the brands.
A core element fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 25 RECKITT 23-64:RECKITT 23-64 7 3 07 02:03 Page 26 Accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability Employee share schemes Leases method, on temporary differences arising Incentives in the form of shares are provided Leases of property, plant and equipment where between the tax bases of assets and liabilities to employees under share option and restricted the Group has substantially all the risks and and their carrying amounts in the consolidated share schemes.
Any shortfall between the cost rewards of ownership are classified as finance financial statements.
The deferred income tax to the employee and the fair market value leases.
Assets held under finance leases are is not accounted for if it arises from the initial of the shares at date of grant is charged to capitalised at lease inception at the lower recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction the income statement over the period to which of the assets fair value and the present value other than a business combination that affects the performance criteria relate, with the credit of the minimum lease payments.
Obligations neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at taken directly to the retained earnings reserve.
related to finance leases, net of finance charges that time.
Deferred income tax is determined Additional employer costs in respect of options in respect of future periods, are included as using tax rates and laws that have been and awards are charged to the income appropriate within borrowings.
The interest enacted or substantially enacted by the balance statement account over the same period with element of the finance cost is charged to the sheet date and are expected to apply when the the credit included in creditors.
Where awards income statement over the life of the lease so deferred tax asset or liability is settled.
Deferred are contingent upon future events other than as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest tax assets are recognised to the extent that continued employment an assessment of the on the remaining balance of the liability for each it is probable that future taxable profit will likelihood of these conditions being achieved period.
The plant, property and equipment is be available against which the temporary is made at the end of each reporting period depreciated on the same basis as owned plant differences can be utilised.
and reflected in the accounting entries made.
and equipment or over the life of the lease, if shorter.
Pension commitments Provisions Group companies operate defined contribution Provisions are recognised when the Group has Leases where the lessor retains substantially all and funded and unfunded defined benefit a present legal or constructive obligation as the risks and rewards of ownership are classified pension schemes.
a result of past events, it is more likely than as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals not that there will be an outflow of resources net of any related lease incentives are charged The cost of providing pensions to employees to settle that obligation and the amount can be against profit on a straight line basis over the who are members of defined contribution reliably estimated.
Provisions are valued at the period of the lease.
schemes is charged to the income statement present value of the Directors best estimate of as contributions are made.
The Group has Capital transactions the expenditure required to settle the obligation no further payment obligations once the When the Group repurchases equity share at the balance sheet date.
capital, the amount of the consideration paid, Financial instruments including directly attributable costs, is recognised The liability recognised in the balance sheet Financial instruments held for trading are as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the classified as current assets and current liabilities, are either held in Treasury, in order to satisfy present value of the defined benefit obligation and are stated at fair value, with any resulting employee options, or cancelled and, in at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
order to maintain capital, an equivalent amount the plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation to the nominal value of the shares cancelled is calculated annually by independent actuaries Where the Group has the positive intent and is transferred from Retained Earnings to the using the project unit credit method.
The present ability to hold a financial instrument until its Capital Redemption Reserve.
value of the defined benefit obligation is maturity, the instruments are stated at amortised determined by discounting the estimated future cost less any impairment losses recognised in the Segmental Reporting cash flows by the yield on high-quality corporate income statement.
The Groups policy on determination of segments bonds denominated in the currency in which the and related matters is included in Note 1.
The fair value of financial instruments classified benefits will be paid, and that have a maturity as held for trading is their quoted bid price Derivative financial instruments approximating to the terms of the pension at the balance sheet date.
The costs of providing these defined The Group primarily uses forward rate benefit schemes are accrued over the period Financial instruments classified as held for trading agreements and forward foreign currency of employment.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised derecognised by the Group contracts to manage its exposures to fluctuating are recognised immediately in the statement on the date it commits to purchase sell the interest and foreign exchange rates.
These of recognised income and expense SORIE.
Financial instruments held instruments are initially recognised at fair value to maturity are recognised derecognised on Post-retirement benefits other than pensions and are subsequently remeasured at their fair the day they are transferred to by the Group.
Some Group companies provide post-retirement value.
The method of recognising the resulting medical care to their retirees.
The costs of The Group has no financial assets or financial gain or loss depends on whether the derivative providing these benefits are accrued over the liabilities designated as at fair value through is designated as a hedging instrument and if so, period of employment and the liability recognised profit or loss.
the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group in the balance sheet is calculated using the designates derivatives as either a hedge of Net revenues projected unit credit method and is discounted a highly probable forecast transaction cash Net revenues are defined as the amount invoiced to its present value and the fair value of any flow hedge or a hedge of net investment to external customers during the year, that related asset is deducted.
is gross sales net of trade discounts, customer allowances for credit notes and returns and consumer coupons, and exclusive of VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Net revenues are recognised at the time that the risks and rewards of ownership of the products are substantially transferred to the customer.
26 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 RECKITT 23-64:RECKITT 23-64 7 3 07 02:03 Page 27 At inception the relationship between theThe continuing enduring nature of the hedging instrument and the hedged item Groups brands supporting the assumed is documented, as is an assessment of the indefinite useful lives of these assets note 9 : effectiveness of the derivative instrument Long-term rates of return, inflation rates used in the hedging transaction in offsetting and discounted rates have been assumed in changes in the cash flow of the hedged item.
calculating the pension and other employee This effectiveness assessment is repeated on post-retirement benefits.
If the real rates an ongoing basis during the life of the hedging are significantly different over time to those instrument to ensure that the instrument remains assumed, the amounts recognised in the an effective hedge of the transaction.
income statement and in the balance sheet 1.
Derivatives classified as cash flow hedges: the will be impacted note 4 : effective portion of changes in the fair value Assumptions are made as to the recoverability is recognised in the SORIE.
Any gain or loss of tax assets especially as to whether there relating to the ineffective portion is recognised will be sufficient future taxable profits in the immediately in the income statement.
same jurisdictions to fully utilise losses in Amounts recognised in equity are recycled future years note 19 : to the income statement in the period when Assumptions are made in relation to share the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
awards, both in the Black-Scholes model used If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, to calculate the charge and in terms of the or no longer meets the criteria for hedge recoverability of the deferred tax asset related accounting, any cumulative gain or loss to the share award reserve note 4 : existing in equity at that time remains in equity, and is recognised when the forecastThe actual tax paid on profits is determined transaction is ultimately recognised in the based on tax laws and regulations that differ income statement.
If the forecast transaction across the numerous jurisdictions in which is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative the Group operates.
Assumptions are made gain or loss in equity is immediately transferred in applying these laws to the taxable profits to the income statement.
in any given period in order to calculate the tax charge for that period.
Derivatives classified as net investment hedges: eventual tax paid or reclaimed is different the effective portion of any changes in fair to the amounts originally estimated, the value is recognised in equity.
Any gain or loss difference will be charged or credited to relating to the ineffective portion is recognised the income statement in the period in which immediately in the income statement.
Gains or losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: these are classified as at fair value through profit or loss.
All changes in fair value of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Accounting estimates and judgements The Directors make a number of estimates and assumptions regarding the future, and make some significant judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies.
These include: Estimates of future business performance and cash generation supporting the net book value of intangible assets at the balance sheet date note 9 : The determination of the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and related depreciation, and the estimation of useful economic life of these assets note 10 : Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 27
