RECKITT 23-64:RECKITT 23-64 7 3 07 02:03 Page 56 Parent company accounting policies Accounting convention Financial instruments classified as held for trading 2.
Derivatives classified as net investment hedges: The accounts are prepared under the historical are recognised derecognised by the Company the effective portion of any changes in fair cost convention and in accordance with the on the date it commits to purchase sell the value is recognised in equity.
Any gain or loss Companies Act 1985 and applicable United instrument.
Financial instruments held to maturity relating to the ineffective portion is recognised Kingdom accounting standards.
are recognised derecognised on the day they immediately in the income statement.
are transferred to by the Company.
There is no material difference between the Gains or losses accumulated in equity are result disclosed as the profit for the year and Capital transactions included in the income statement when the the result on an unmodified historical cost basis When the Company repurchases equity share foreign operation is disposed of.
and therefore a note of historical cost profits capital, the amount of the consideration paid, 3.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge and losses is not included in these accounts.
including directly attributable costs, is recognised accounting: these are classified as at fair value as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares are Foreign currency translation through profit or loss.
All changes in fair value either held in Treasury in order to satisfy Transactions denominated in foreign currencies of derivative instruments that do not qualify employee options, or cancelled and, in order are translated at the rate of exchange on the for hedge accounting are recognised to maintain capital, an equivalent amount day the transaction occurs or at the contracted immediately in the income statement.
to the nominal value of the shares cancelled rate if the transaction is covered by a forward is transferred from Retained Earnings to the Cash and cash equivalents exchange contract.
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash Assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign balances and other deposits with a maturity Derivative financial instruments currency are translated at the exchange rate of less than three months when deposited.
and hedging activity ruling on the balance sheet date or, if appropriate, The Company primarily uses forward rate Borrowings at a forward contract rate.
agreements and forward foreign currency Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised Taxation contracts to manage its exposures to fluctuating initially at fair value less attributable transaction The tax charge is based on the profit for the interest and foreign exchange rates.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestperiod and takes into account taxation deferred instruments are initially recognised at fair value bearing borrowings are stated at amortised due to timing differences between the treatment and are subsequently remeasured at their fair cost with any difference between cost and of certain items for taxation and accounting value.
The method of recognising the resulting redemption value being recognised in the purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are provided for gain or loss depends on whether the derivative income statement over the period of the in full and deferred tax assets are recognised to is designated as a hedging instrument and borrowings or on an effective interest basis.
the extent that they are considered recoverable.
if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Cash flow statement The Company designates derivatives as either Tangible fixed assets Reckitt Benckiser plc has presented a Group a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction Fixed asset investments are valued at cost cash flow statement in its Annual Report and cash flow hedge or a hedge of net investment less impairment.
Accounts 2006, therefore as permitted by FRS 1, in foreign operations.
Cash Flow Statements, the Directors have not Employee share schemes At inception the relationship between the prepared a cash flow statement for the Company.
Incentives in the form of shares are provided hedging instrument and the hedged item to employees under share option and restricted Accounting estimates and judgements is documented, as is an assessment of the share schemes.
Any shortfall between the cost The Directors make a number of estimates and effectiveness of the derivative instrument used to the employee and the fair market value assumptions regarding the future, and make in the hedging transaction in offsetting changes of the shares at date of grant is charged to some significant judgements in applying the in the cash flow of the hedged item.
This the income statement over the period to which Groups accounting policies.
These include: effectiveness assessment is repeated on an the performance criteria relate, with the credit ongoing basis during the life of the hedgingThe determination of the carrying value taken directly to the retained earnings reserve.
instrument to ensure that the instrument of investments classified as fixed assets, Additional employer costs in respect of options remains an effective hedge of the transaction.
and the assessment of any impairment and awards are charged to the income statement of the investments: account over the same period with the credit 1.
Derivatives classified as cash flow hedges: the included in creditors.
Where awards are effective portion of changes in the fair value Assumptions are made in relation to share contingent upon future events other than is recognised in the SORIE.
Any gain or loss awards, both in the Black-Scholes model continued employment an assessment of the relating to the ineffective portion is recognised used to calculate the charge and in terms likelihood of these conditions being achieved immediately in the income statement.
of the recoverability of the deferred tax asset is made at the end of each reporting period related to the share award reserve.
Amounts recognised in equity are recycled and reflected in the accounting entries made.
to the income statement in the period when Financial instruments the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
Financial instruments held for trading are If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, classified as current assets and current liabilities, or no longer meets the criteria for hedge and are stated at fair value, with any resulting accounting, any cumulative gain or loss gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
existing in equity at that time remains in equity, and is recognised when the forecast Where the Company has the positive intent and transaction is ultimately recognised in the ability to hold a financial instrument until its income statement.
If the forecast transaction maturity, the instruments are stated at amortised is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative cost less any impairment losses recognised in gain or loss in equity is immediately the income statement.
transferred to the income statement.
The fair value of financial instruments classified as held for trading is their quoted bid price at the balance sheet date.
56 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
