ACCOUNTING POLICIES Both the consolidated and Company financial statements have been goodwill.
Goodwill is subject to an annual impairment review, with prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting any reduction in value being taken straight to the income Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and statement.
effective or available for early adoption at 30 June 2006, and in accordance with Companies Act 1985 as it applies to companies Adjustments are made as necessary to the financial statements of reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and in subsidiaries to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the accordance with the historical cost convention as modified by the Group.
revaluation of derivative financial instruments.
All significant inter-company transactions and balances between Comparative information for the year ended 30 June 2005 has been Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
stated on an IFRS basis see Note 24. b Interests in Joint Ventures The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported and other parties undertake an economic activity which is subject amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the to joint control.
Joint venture arrangements which involve the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an Whilst these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of interest are referred to as jointly-controlled entities.
The Group the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from reports its interests in jointly-controlled entities using the equity those estimates.
method of accounting the Groups share of profit after tax is shown separately on the face of the income statement and its share The principal accounting policies which have been applied consistently of net assets is included within non-current assets in the balance in the periods presented are outlined below: sheet as an investment.
Basis of consolidation When the Group transacts with its jointly-controlled entities, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Groups interest in the joint venture, except where unrealised losses statements of Redrow plc and all its subsidiaries, together with the provide evidence of impairment of the asset transferred.
Groups share of the results and share of net assets of jointly-controlled Where joint venture arrangements are undertaken directly, the entities made up to 30 June each year, i. e. the financial statements of Groups share of jointly-controlled assets and liabilities are Redrow plc and entities controlled by Redrow plc and its subsidiaries.
recognised in the relevant subsidiary company and classified Control is achieved where Redrow plc has the power to govern the according to their nature.
financial and operating policies of an entity.
Revenue and profit recognition a Subsidiaries The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year Revenue represents the fair value received and receivable in respect of are included in the consolidated income statement from the the sale of residential housing and of commercial land and effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal.
developments net of value added tax and discounts.
This is recognised The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the on legal completion.
acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business Profit is recognised on legal completion.
combination are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets represents ACCOUNTING POLICIES 51 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Net finance costs All other plant, property and equipment is stated at historic cost less depreciation.
Historic cost includes any costs directly attributable to Interest income is recognised on a time-apportioned basis by reference bringing the assets to the location and condition necessary for them to to the principal outstanding and the applicable interest rate.
Borrowing be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
costs are recognised in the income statement on an accruals basis in the period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation on other assets, excluding assets in the course of construction, is charged so as to write off the cost of Income tax assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, on a straight line basis as follows: Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
Buildings 50 years Current tax is based on taxable profits for the year and any appropriate Plant & machinery 5 10 years adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Taxable profit differs Fixtures & fittings 3 5 years from profit before tax as shown in the income statement as it excludes income or expenditure items which are never chargeable or allowable The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset represents the for tax or which are chargeable or deductible in other accounting difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the periods.
asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet liability Investment in subsidiary companies method, on temporary differences arising between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the In the parent company books, the investment in its subsidiaries is held corresponding tax bases used in the calculation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary Leases differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates enacted at Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership the balance sheet date.
are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to work in progress or Deferred tax is credited or charged in the income statement, statement income on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
of recognised income and expense, or retained earnings as appropriate.
Leases classified as finance leases are those where substantially all of the Intangible assets computer software risks and rewards of ownership pass to the lessee.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the date of acquisition or the present value of monthly lease payments costs incurred to bring to use the specific software and are amortised if lower.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the over their estimated useful lives of three years.
balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Plant, property and equipment Inventories Freehold property comprises offices or other buildings held for Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value less administrative purposes.
Freehold property is shown at cost or deemed cash on account.
cost at opening balance sheet date under the IFRS 1 transitional rules Cost comprises land and associated acquisition costs, direct materials less the subsequent depreciation of buildings.
Long leasehold property and subcontract work, other direct costs and those overheads based on comprises offices.
The building element of the lease is accounted for as normal operating capacity that have been incurred in bringing the a finance lease and the land element of the lease is accounted for as an inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value operating lease.
52 ACCOUNTING POLICIES represents the estimated selling price in the normal course of business In respect of the defined contribution section of the scheme, less relevant variable marketing, selling and distribution expenses.
contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
The Group has no further payment obligations in Forward land respect of the defined contribution section of the Scheme once the contributions have been paid.
Expenditure relating to forward land, including options, fees etc is provided for when incurred.
After exercise of an option and acquisition b Bonus plans of land following the securing of planning permission, the provisions The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where relating to that land are released.
Employee benefits c Share-based payment The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 'Share-based a Pension obligation payments'.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 The Group operates a contributory pension scheme for all its staff.
has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after The scheme is externally invested and comprises two sections: 7 November 2002, which had not vested as of 1 July 2004. a defined benefit section and a defined contribution section.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value on A defined benefit plan is a pension plan which defines an amount the date of grant and expensed on a straight line basis over the of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement.
It is vesting period, based on the Group's estimate of shares that will funded through payments to trustee-administered funds, determined eventually vest.
by actuarial valuations carried out on at least a triennial basis.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Financial instruments Group pays agreed contributions into a separate fund for each employee and any subsequent pension payable to a specific employee a Land creditors is determined by the amount accumulated in their individual fund.
Deferred payments arising from land creditors are held at discounted present value using the effective interest method, in The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the accordance with IAS 39.
The difference between the fair value and defined benefit section of the scheme is the present value of the the nominal value is amortised over the deferment period via defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less the fair financing costs.
The defined benefit obligation is determined using the projected unit credit method on an annual basis by an The interest rate applied is an equivalent loan rate available on the independent scheme actuary.
date of the land purchase.
Under IAS 19, revised December 2004, the Group has taken the b Derivative financial instruments option to allow actuarial gains and losses arising from experience Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions to be charged or and the fair value is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
credited to equity as they arise in full via the statement of recognised income and expense.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments which are designated and which qualify as Scheme service costs are charged to gross contribution and cashflow hedges are recognised directly in equity in a hedge reserve.
administrative expenses as appropriate and scheme finance costs are The gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised included in net financing costs.
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement immediately they arise.
immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, or otherwise amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period, if they are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a further period.
53 ACCOUNTING POLICIES c Long term trade receivables Long term trade receivables are held at discounted present value.
The amount is then increased to settlement value over the settlement period via financing income.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are declared and appropriately authorised.
Impact of standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective The Group has considered the following new standards, amendments and interpretations and does not expect them to have a material effect on the Group: - Amendment to IAS 21: Net investment in a foreign operation - IFRS 7: Financial instruments: disclosures - Amendment to IAS 1 - Capital disclosures - Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 - financial guarantee contracts - Amendments to IAS 39 - Fair value option - Amendment to IAS 39 - Cash flow hedge accounting of forecast intragroup transactions - IFRIC 4: Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease - IFRIC 5: Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environment rehabilitation funds - IFRIC 6: Waste electrical and electronic equipment - IFRIC 7: Applying IAS 29 for first time - IFRIC 8: Scope of IFRS 2 - IFRIC 9: Reassessment of embedded derivatives 54 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
