130 Reed Elsevier NV Group accounting policies These consolidated financial statements, which have been Parent company financial statements prepared under the historic cost convention, report the In accordance with 2:402 of the Netherlands Civil Code, the statements of income, cash flow and financial position of parent company financial statements only contain an Reed Elsevier NV.
Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts abridged profit and loss account.
shown in the financial statements are in millions of euros.
Combined financial statements As required by a regulation adopted by the European The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the Parliament, the consolidated financial statements have been combined financial statements are set out on pages 58 to 61. prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed by the European These include policies in relation to intangible assets.
assets are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives which, due to their longevity, may be for periods in The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements presented excess of five years.
in pounds sterling on pages 54 to 90 form an integral part of the notes to Reed Elsevier NVs statutory financial Basis of valuation of assets and liabilities statements.
The primary combined financial statements and Reed Elsevier NVs 50% economic interest in the net assets selected notes are presented in euros on pages 94 to 103. of the combined businesses has been shown on the consolidated balance sheet as investments in joint As a consequence of the merger of the companys ventures, net of the assets and liabilities reported as part of businesses with those of Reed Elsevier PLC, described Reed Elsevier NV.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the on page 26, the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV and Reed equity method.
Elsevier PLC can be regarded as having the interests of a single economic group, enjoying substantially equivalent Cash and cash equivalents are stated at fair value.
Other ordinary dividend and capital rights in the earnings and assets and liabilities are stated at historical cost, less net assets of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
provision, if appropriate, for any impairment in value.
The Reed Elsevier NV consolidated financial statements are Foreign exchange translation presented incorporating Reed Elsevier NVs investments Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the in the Reed Elsevier combined businesses accounted for rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At using the equity method, as adjusted for the effects of the each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that equalisation arrangement between Reed Elsevier NV are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at and Reed Elsevier PLC.
The arrangement lays down the the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange distribution of dividends and net assets in such a way that differences arising are recorded in the income statement.
Reed Elsevier NVs share in the profit and net assets of the The gains or losses relating to the retranslation of Reed Reed Elsevier combined businesses equals 50%, with all Elsevier NVs 50% interest in the net assets of the combined settlements accruing to shareholders from the equalisation businesses are classified as equity and transferred to the arrangements taken directly to reserves.
Because the dividend paid to shareholders by Reed Elsevier When foreign operations are disposed of, the related NV is, other than in special circumstances, equivalent to the cumulative translation differences are recognised within Reed Elsevier PLC dividend plus the UK tax credit received by the income statement in the period.
certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders, Reed Elsevier NV normally distributes a higher proportion of the combined profit attributable than Reed Elsevier PLC.
Reed Elsevier PLCs share in this difference in dividend distributions is settled with Reed Elsevier NV and is credited directly to consolidated reserves under equalisation.
Reed Elsevier NV can pay a nominal dividend on its R-shares held by a subsidiary of Reed Elsevier PLC that is lower than the dividend on the ordinary shares.
Equally, Reed Elsevier NV has the possibility to receive dividends directly from Dutch affiliates.
Reed Elsevier PLC is compensated by direct dividend payments by Reed Elsevier Group plc.
The settlements flowing from these arrangements are also taken directly to consolidated reserves under equalisation.
