com Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2006 Inspiring discovery Reed Elsevier is a world leading provider of Science and Medical, Legal, Education and Business information and workflow solutions.
We create authoritative content delivered through leading brands and content driven solutions increasingly embedded in our customers workflows.
We enable our customers to work faster and more effectively.
We continually innovate to expand our product range to ensure that we are increasingly valued partners to our customers.
This document contains the Reed Elsevier Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2006 for the Reed Elsevier combined businesses and for Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
For a full understanding of the results and affairs of the businesses, this document should be read in conjunction with the more detailed separate document, Reed Elsevier Annual Reports & Financial Statements 2006.
This information is also available on www.
com 01 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 Highlights 6% 1 1% Revenue growth at constant currencies Adjusted EPS growth at constant currencies 95% 10 13% Adjusted operating cash flow conversion Dividend growth for Reed Elsevier PLC NV Revenue Adjusted operating profit g1,779m 1,210m g7,935m 5,398m 5,166m g7,542m 1,142m g1,667m 05 06 05 06 05 06 05 06 Adjusted profit before tax Return on capital employed g1,546m 1,052m 9.8% Highlights 01 9.4% 1,002m g1,463m Product innovation 02 Chairman and Chief Executives report 04 Our business 08 Our strengths 14 Our strategy 15 Business overview 16 05 06 05 06 05 06 Chief Financial Officers report 20 Adjusted EPS: Reed Elsevier PLC Adjusted EPS: Reed Elsevier NV Corporate responsibility 23 Directors 26 g0.76 33.6p Corporate governance 28 31.5p g0.70 Summary financial statements 29 Independent auditors statement 36 Summary directors remuneration report 37 Investor information 42 2007 financial calendar 44 Contacts 45 05 06 05 06 Forward looking statements 45 02 Product innovation LexisNexis Total Litigator provides US litigators with a complete and integrated set of online tools and services to assist them in managing cases through each step of the litigation process.
Product innovation Variety is the entertainment and media industrys premier source of news and analysis.
The Chinese edition has recently been redesigned and is also available online at www.
03 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 totaljobs.
com is the UKs leading commercial recruitment website, attracting nearly 2 million unique jobseekers every month.
With over 100,000 vacancies at any one time, totaljobs.
com is one of the UKs fastest growing online recruitment businesses.
MD Consult provides a range of specialist online clinical reference content for physicians and other health care professionals.
The product serves over 280,000 users and is licensed by more than 1,700 health care organisations worldwide, including nearly 95% of US medical schools.
Holt Online Learning Holt, Rinehart and Winston has more than 3 million registered users of its online textbooks and programme resources.
More than an online copy of our print books, these resources include dynamic and interactive tutorials and planning and assessment tools for US schools grades 6-12.
04 Chairman and Chief Executives report Chairman and Chief Executives report Highlights of the year Good financial progress 2006 financial results were encouraging, with good revenue growth and improved underlying margins, strong cash generation and higher returns on invested capital Sharpened strategic focus Following a detailed review, we have sharpened our strategic focus to best capitalise on the growing digital opportunities in our Science, Medical, Legal and Business markets.
Accordingly, we have announced the planned sale of our Harcourt Education division Outlook Longer term prospects for Reed Elsevier are promising.
Our strategy is clear, the business well focused and we are leveraging our resources to good effect 05 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 In 2006 we made important progress.
We continued to expand our authoritative content delivered through market leading brands: we invested behind a wide range of innovative new digital products: we achieved further significant efficiency gains across the business: and we saw a strong performance from recent acquisitions which are accelerating our progress The 2006 financial results were encouraging, with good revenue growth and Our strategy is focused on improved underlying margins.
We have also delivered strong cash generation four priorities: delivering and higher returns on invested capital.
authoritative content through leading brands, driving online Additionally, we have sharpened our strategic focus to best capitalise on the growing digital opportunities in our markets.
We believe we can derive the best solutions, improving cost returns on our brand franchises and digital investments by focusing on the efficiency and selective Science, Medical, Legal and Business markets.
We have accordingly announced portfolio development.
the planned sale of our Harcourt Education division.
It is our intention to return the net proceeds from the sale to our shareholders.
Business strategy Looking forward, our strategy is focused on four priorities: delivering authoritative content through leading brands, driving online solutions, improving cost efficiency and selective portfolio development.
Delivering authoritative content through leading brands.
We deliver authoritative, and to a great extent proprietary, content of the highest quality through market leading brands.
In our publications and services our professional customers find the essential data, analysis and commentary to support their decisions.
Editorial investment and selective acquisitions are generating new sources of content to widen the product offering to our customers, and to expand into new segments and geographic regions.
As online information sources increase, our trusted leadership brands continue to play an ever more vital role.
Over the last five years online revenues have built to over 2.0bn a2.9bn, or 37% of our total revenues.
Authoritative information, technology enabled and increasingly integrated into customer workflows, is making our 37% customers more effective professionally and making Reed Elsevier a more valued partner.
As our customers and core markets rapidly migrate online, our Over the last five years online revenues opportunities to leverage our leadership brands and authoritative proprietary have built to over 2.0bn a2.9bn, or 37% content increase.
Digital technology enables us to move up the value chain with of our total revenues.
our customers by providing a range of innovative solution orientated products that become embedded in their workflow.
This will play a major part in Reed Elseviers strategy going forward.
Digital growth and an increasingly synergistic portfolio provide opportunities to further leverage scale and commonalities across the business, sharing skill sets, resources and collective experience.
Substantial cost savings have been made over the last five years, and there are further opportunities across the supply chain and in technology and infrastructure to continue this progress.
Improving cost efficiency remains a fundamental feature of Reed Elsevier.
06 Chairman and Chief Executives report Chairman and Chief Executives report continued Selective portfolio development.
In addition to significant internal investment, we will continue to allocate capital and resources in a very disciplined way to pursue selective acquisition opportunities that accelerate our strategy and overall business progress.
We will continue to focus on strong brands and proprietary content, customer workflow solutions, leading technologies and expansion into attractive adjacent markets, most notably in legal solutions, risk management, health and e-business.
Financial strategy We expect progress in the development of our digital business to deliver good Our business and financial revenue growth and, with the improvements in cost efficiency and organisational strategy is directed at effectiveness, this will flow through at a higher rate to operating profitability.
delivering consistent With an increasing and substantial portion of the revenues being delivered by adjusted earnings subscription based products and the trend to longer term contracts, we will be a more consistent business.
per share growth of a minimum of 10% annually We aim to distribute 70-80% of free cash flow through dividends and share at constant currencies.
The balance will be invested in the business, mainly through acquisitions, so maintaining capital efficiency aligned to our strategy.
Our capital will be invested where we can grow our business while making sustainable returns in excess of our risk adjusted cost of capital.
We aim to maintain our credit rating in order to take advantage of opportunities within our markets and access the cheapest sources of borrowing.
Our business and financial strategy is directed at delivering consistent adjusted earnings per share growth of a minimum of 10% annually at constant currencies.
Our incentive programmes are designed in support of these strategies and in creating shareholder value.
Financial performance The 2006 financial results were, as noted earlier, encouraging.
Revenues were up 6%, adjusted operating profits up 9% and adjusted earnings per share up 11% at constant currencies.
The quality of the operating profits is underpinned by the strong cash flow, with 95% of adjusted operating profits converting into cash.
Increasing profitability and capital discipline drove the return on capital employed in the business 0.4 percentage points higher to 9.8% post tax.
At reported exchange rates, reflecting the impact of the weaker US dollar particularly on our rolling currency hedging programme, adjusted earnings per share were up 7% for Reed Elsevier PLC to 33.6p and up 9% for Reed Elsevier NV to a0.76.
11% Adjusted earnings per share for Reed Elsevier Reported earnings per share were up 38% to 25.6p and up 37% to a0.59 for PLC and Reed Elsevier NV were up 11% at Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV respectively, reflecting the improvement constant currencies in underlying operating performance together with a lower reported tax charge.
07 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 The Boards are recommending an increase in the equalised final dividends for Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV of 10% and 14% respectively, to give total dividends for the year up 10% and 13% the differential growth rates reflect movements in the sterling euro exchange rate.
Dividends paid in the year, together with share buybacks under the annual share repurchase programme, have distributed 588 million a864 million to shareholders, representing 72% of the free cash flow of 817 million a1,201 million.
Board changes Cees van Lede retires at the Annual General Meeting after four years of service and we thank him for his substantial contribution in that time.
Lisa Hook was elected as a non-executive director last April, bringing a wide experience of the media and technology sectors to our board discussions.
We have nominated Robert Polet as a non-executive director.
Robert is chief executive officer of Gucci Group, before which he held senior positions at Unilever.
He brings with him strong marketing skills and a record of entrepreneurial leadership.
Outlook Going into 2007, market conditions are generally favourable.
Elsevier, LexisNexis Going into 2007, market and Reed Business are expected to make further good progress in the development conditions are generally of Reed Elseviers digital business as well as show good revenue momentum and favourable.
LexisNexis and Our financial goal is for a minimum of 10% adjusted earnings per share growth Reed Business are at constant currencies.
The adjusted earnings per share for 2007 will however be expected to make impacted by dilution on the sale of the seasonal Harcourt Education business.
The longer term prospects for Reed Elsevier are promising.
Our strategy is clear, the business well focused and we are leveraging our resources to good effect.
The digital horizon is expanding and Reed Elsevier is well placed.
Our business is dependent on the energy and enterprise of our 37,000 people operating across the globe.
They do an outstanding job, caring greatly about what they do and the customers they serve.
We could not ask for greater commitment and professionalism, and we want to take this opportunity to thank them all.
Jan Hommen Sir Crispin Davis Chairman Chief Executive Officer 08 Our business From print Reed Elsevier provides authoritative, high quality content through more than 15,000 books, journals, magazines and reference works.
Nearly 40% of our revenues are now electronic and internet delivered as we meet the rising demand for specialised online information.
09 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 to online 10 Our business From information 11 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 to solutions Digital technology enables us to move up the value chain with our customers by providing innovative solutions embedded in their workflows, making our customers more effective professionally and Reed Elsevier a more valued partner.
12 Our business Our markets and customers are becoming increasingly more international.
We are leveraging our content, brands and know-how across borders and widening product offerings and distribution across new segments and new geographies.
From local 13 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 to global 14 Our strengths and strategy Our strengths We operate in large, long term, global growth markets sustained by the continuing demand for professional information Elsevier is a world leading provider of scientific, technical and medical information and solutions We deliver authoritative content of the highest quality through market leading brands, enabling our professional customers to find the essential data, analysis and commentary to support their decisions LexisNexis is a global provider of authoritative legal, tax, regulatory, public records, news and business information and workflow solutions Technology enabled solutions integrated into customer workflows are making our customers more effective professionally and Reed Elsevier a more valued partner Harcourt Education is a leading publisher serving the pre-Kindergarten to Grade 12 schools and assessment markets in the US and We generate a large part of our revenues from internationally subscriptions and other recurring sources Our businesses are strongly cash generative with Reed Business is a leading global business-toa high conversion of operating profits into cash business publisher and exhibition organiser 15 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 Our strategy Revenue 5,398m g7,935m by: We are sharpening our strategic focus on Division four priorities: Elsevier 28% LexisNexis 29% Harcourt Education 17% Deliver authoritative content through leading brands Reed Business 26% Editorial investment to generate new sources of content to widen and differentiate the product offering to our customers, expanding into new segments and geographic regions Drive online solutions Geography Leverage our leadership brands and authoritative North America 57% UK 11% proprietary content to deliver innovative solutions NL 4% Rest of Europe 16% orientated products that become embedded in Rest of World 12% customers workflows and enable Reed Elsevier to move up the value chain Improve cost efficiency Leverage our scale, skill sets, technology, resources and collective experience across the business to Source improve cost efficiency Subscriptions 39% Circulation 32% Advertising 13% Exhibitions 10% Other 6% Selective portfolio development Allocate capital and resources, both through internal investment and acquisition, to pursue opportunities that accelerate our strategic and business progress Our objectives are to deliver good revenue growth, Media continuous margin improvement, strong cash Print 53% Online 37% Exhibitions 10% generation and growing returns on capital.
We are targeting consistent earnings per share growth of a minimum of 10% annually at constant currencies 16 Business overview Elsevier had strong subscription renewals, widening Elsevier distribution of its scientific and medical journals and www.
com databases, growing new online product sales and a successful book publishing programme Revenues and adjusted operating profits journal publishing.
Online revenues are Divisional revenue were ahead 8% and 10% respectively growing rapidly, up 37% in total, as the Science at constant currencies, or 5% and medical community increasingly adopts & Technology 52% 8% before acquisitions and disposals.
online information services to drive Health Sciences 48% Underlying operating margins were productivity and enhance outcomes.
0.9 percentage points ahead before The year saw increasing penetration acquisition and currency effects, driven of the ScienceDirect and MDConsult by revenue growth, stabilising investment products and further launches made levels and further supply chain efficiency.
and planned of electronic reference materials, medical education resources, The Science & Technology business and specialist information services and saw organic revenue growth of 5% at workflow tools.
constant currencies reflecting strong journal subscription renewals, at 97%, The integration of the MediMedia MAP widening distribution through an businesses acquired in August 2005 Revenue expanded sales force, and good growth is now complete, with revenue growth in online databases.
ScienceDirect initiatives building momentum and usage continues to grow at over 20% adjusted operating margins improved g2,236m 1,521m and e-only contracts now account for significantly.
The acquisition in May of the 1,436m g2,097m 45% of journal subscription revenues.
Gold Standard drug information database The Scopus abstract and indexing and related products is accelerating our database has been well received market strategies in electronic health in the market and is seeing good information services to enhance the conversion of trials into firm contracts.
efficacy of clinical diagnosis and treatment.
In December, the Endeavor Early in the year, the Science & software business was sold following Technology business was reorganised a reappraisal of its position within into a more market-focused organisation, Elseviers overall market strategies.
05 06 05 06 to better serve large academic and 8% at constant currencies government institutions as well as to At reported exchange rates, adjusted focus more directly on smaller and mid operating margins were 0.7 percentage Adjusted operating profit sized institutions, the corporate sector, points lower largely reflecting the low, and societies and individuals.
Customer but rapidly improving, margins of the satisfaction scores have significantly MediMedia acquisition made in 2005 g683m improved during the year as a result of as well as the impact of the rolling three 465m 449m g655m the sustained programme to improve year currency hedging programme as the service levels, and new products and US dollar decline over the last few years marketing strategies are being developed works its way through the hedge rates.
The outlook for Elsevier is positive.
In Health Sciences, revenue growth Subscription renewals are strong, was 13% at constant currencies, or customer satisfaction is improving, our 6% underlying.
Strong growth was publishing programmes are expanding, seen in the nursing and allied health new electronic product is developing 05 06 05 06 professional sectors and in new society well, and distribution is widening.
10% at constant currencies Scopus The worlds largest abstract and citation database of scientific research, Scopus indexes the bibliographic information of 15,000 titles from 4,000 different publishers and covers all scientific disciplines.
Netter A new 4th edition Netters Atlas of Human Anatomy was published in June 2006.
It contains over 940 illustrations of the human body with unsurpassed clarity and accuracy.
17 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 LexisNexis saw strong subscription renewals, good LexisNexis growth in new sales of its online information solutions www.
com both in the US and internationally, and further good growth in risk information and analytics Revenues and adjusted operating profits and LexisNexis existing risk Divisional revenue were up 8% and 13% respectively at management business has now been United States 72% constant currencies, or 7% and 13% fully migrated to the Seisint technology International 28% before acquisitions.
The Seisint business delivered revenue growth compares with 6% a 10% post tax return in only its second in 2005 and 4% in 2004 and reflects full year of ownership, and returns the strengthening momentum in the continue to grow.
The adjusted operating margin was 1.1 percentage points The LexisNexis International business higher reflecting the good revenue outside the US saw underlying revenue growth and tight cost control.
growth of 8% driven by the growing demand for LexisNexis online In US Legal Markets, strong subscription information services across its markets renewals and additional online and new publishing.
The Total Solutions information and solutions sales to both strategy is also being rolled out in these Revenue large and small firms drove organic international markets behind increasing growth of 6%.
The Total Solutions online penetration.
In the UK this was strategy launched in the year has gained accelerated with the acquisition of g2,308m 1,570m good traction in the market, focused on Visualfiles case management and 1,466m g2,140m the distinctive needs of lawyers across compliance tools.
Particularly strong four major areas of their workflow: growth was seen in the UK, France, litigation, client development, research Germany, Canada and South Africa.
An integrated solutions product was also launched The outlook for LexisNexis is positive.
for the risk management market.
The Revenue momentum is good, with product portfolio was expanded through strong subscription renewals, organic development and selective increasing take up of new online acquisition: Casesoft litigation case services and total solutions across 05 06 05 06 analysis, Dataflight online repository our markets, and strong demand 8% at constant currencies and tools for evidence management.
Adjusted operating profit In Corporate and Public Markets organic revenue growth was 8% with continued g559m 380m strengthening in online news and business information, higher patent 338m g493m volumes and strong demand in risk management.
The Seisint business acquired in September 2004 saw continued strong revenue growth 05 06 05 06 13% at constant currencies Butterworths LawLeader A news and research site for small to medium UK law firms, providing essential information tailored to specific legal practice areas.
Anti-Money Laundering Solutions LexisNexis Anti-Money Laundering Solutions is a fast, comprehensive tool to help customers streamline their anti-money laundering investigations and perform due diligence research within a single, easy-to-use online resource.
18 Business overview Harcourt Educations basal textbook and supplemental Harcourt Education businesses performed well against a weaker education www.
com market to hold overall revenues flat.
Profits were lower through investment ahead of major adoptions and underperformance in assessment Revenues at Harcourt Education were The assessment business saw revenues Divisional revenue flat against the prior year at constant 4% lower reflecting the net loss of US Schools currencies, whilst adjusted operating state testing contracts and lower & Testing 90% profits were 19% lower, or 20% lower catalog sales.
Operational difficulties International 10% before minor disposals.
Adjusted surrounding a major state testing operating margin was 3.4 percentage contract and knock on effects on other points lower at 14.5% largely reflecting contracts resulted in significant cost sales and marketing investment ahead overruns.
New management were of the much stronger 2007 adoption appointed in the year and organisational market, sales mix and the impact of changes made which are beginning to the underperformance in assessment.
make a real difference to the business.
Whilst revenues are expected to decline The Harcourt US K-12 basal and further due to lost contracts, the actions supplemental businesses have taken have positioned the business for a performed well both achieving 1% recovery in performance and margin this Revenue revenue growth in a US textbook year and next.
market estimated to be down around 6%.
The weaker market reflects the The Harcourt Education International state textbook adoption cycle and business saw revenues 1% higher.
901m g1,315m g1,307m 889m reduced spending by elementary schools Strong growth in South Africa and in in non-adoption states partly as a result UK export sales were offset by a weak of significant prior year spending on performance in a flat UK market.
federally supported Reading First programmes.
Harcourt won the leading The outlook for Harcourt Education is market share, at 38%, in new state positive.
The textbook adoption cycle textbook adoptions in which it has entered a strong growth phase, the participated, with great success from new textbook programmes for 2007 are new publishing particularly in the being well received in the market, and 05 06 05 06 secondary schools market in literature the pipeline is strong with a high level of 0% at constant currencies and language arts, science and social development activity.
A good market response to new in the supplemental business is gaining Adjusted operating profit publishing in the supplemental business, momentum and assessment is on a and more manageable backlist attrition, firm recovery path.
Organisational continues the recovery in this business changes in the business are expected as it replaces traditional supplemental to deliver increasingly integrated market 161m g235m product with more comprehensive strategies and significant further intervention programmes, and cost efficiencies.
reorientates sales and marketing g190m 129m activities from individual school to district level.
05 06 05 06 -19% at constant currencies Power Up!
is a reading programme that uses a systematic approach to develop reading skills for US middle school readers, resulting in measurable gains in reading.
Saxon Math The Saxon Math series for US schools grades K-12 provides an incremental approach to instruction that delivers measurable student improvement as shown by years of research.
19 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 Reed Businesss online information services grew rapidly, Reed Business more than compensating for print migration, and the www.
com exhibitions business again performed strongly Revenues and adjusted operating profits Adjusted operating profits were up Divisional revenue were 5% and 14% ahead respectively at 12% through continued action on costs Reed Business constant currencies, with acquisitions as resources are rebalanced to the Information 63% and disposals having no overall effect digital opportunity.
Reed Exhibitions 37% on these growth rates.
Adjusted operating margins were 1.3 percentage In the US, RBI underlying revenues were points higher, reflecting the strong 2% lower.
Online revenues are growing growth in the exhibitions business rapidly, particularly from advertising in and tight cost control.
community sites and new services, and are close to offsetting the print decline At Reed Exhibitions, revenues were seen across most sectors.
In the UK, 12% higher, or 10% underlying.
Strong RBI underlying revenues were up 6% growth was seen in key shows across reflecting the strong growth in online the principal geographies in the US, recruitment up 39% and online Europe and Asia Pacific, with particularly subscription services up 17%.
Online Revenue good performances in Japan and in the revenues now account for 41% of RBI UK international Midem entertainment and revenues with strong growth and new property shows held in Cannes.
Whilst launches set to increase this further.
g2,084m much of B2B marketing is moving Print revenues benefited from innovative 1,418m 1,363m g1,990m online, the demand for exhibitions publishing and design.
In continental remains very strong as exhibitors and Europe underlying revenues were up buyers place great value on physical 3%, with again good growth in new online meetings and events to balance other services and some further recovery in information sources and connections.
Revenues in Asia Underlying profit growth was 16% grew 6%.
including 6% from share of joint ventures cycling in.
The net effect of As part of a repositioning of the portfolio, other biennial shows cycling in and the US manufacturing product news 05 06 05 06 out is broadly neutral.
The Sinopharm tabloid business was sold during the 5% at constant currencies exhibitions acquired in a joint venture year as well as a number of other titles in China in 2005 are performing well and North American manufacturing Adjusted operating profit ahead of plan and new shows are to shows.
In January 2007 RBI acquired be launched in 2007.
Buyerzone, a fast growing online service g354m 241m for matching vendors and buyers in The Reed Business Information procurement tendering that can be 214m g313m magazine and information businesses leveraged across RBIs categories.
saw continued strong underlying growth in online services of over 20%, more The outlook for Reed Business is than compensating for the 3% decline encouraging.
Strong demand for online in print as the business migrates online.
services, good growth in exhibitions Overall RBI revenues were up 2% and ongoing portfolio management underlying.
With 24% of revenues are steadily repositioning the business now from online services, the overall for good long term growth.
05 06 05 06 14% at constant currencies Reed Exhibitions is the worlds leading events organiser.
With over 460 events in 2006, it brought together over six million industry professionals from around the world.
New Scientist has chronicled the way science and technology have transformed our understanding of the world and ourselves since 1956.
New Scientist celebrated its fiftieth anniversary last year and sold over 200,000 copies worldwide of its special anniversary edition.
20 Chief Financial Officers report Chief Financial Officers report Reed Elsevier combined businesses Change at 2006 2005 2006 2005 constant m m gm am currencies Reported figures Revenue 5,398 5,166 7,935 7,542 6% Operating profit 880 839 1,294 1,225 9% Profit before tax 721 701 1,060 1,023 8% Adjusted figures Operating profit 1,210 1,142 1,779 1,667 9% Profit before tax 1,052 1,002 1,546 1,463 9% Operating cash flow 1,152 1,080 1,693 1,577 7% The Reed Elsevier combined businesses encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, together with their two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Adjusted figures are presented as additional performance measures and are stated before the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition integration costs, disposals and other non operating items, related tax effects and movements on deferred tax balances not expected to crystallise in the near term.
Comparison at constant exchange rates uses 2005 average and hedge exchange rates.
Income statement Revenue, at 5,398m a7,935m, increased by 4% expressed in sterling and 5% expressed in euros.
At constant exchange rates, revenue was 6% higher, or 5% excluding acquisitions and disposals.
Reported figures Reported operating profit, after amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition integration costs, at 880m a1,294m, was up 5% in sterling and 6% in euros.
The increase reflects the strong underlying operating performance, partly offset by the effect of a weaker US dollar hedge rate applicable for Elsevier journal subscription revenues and other currency translation effects.
The reported profit before tax, including amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition integration costs and non operating items, at 721m a1,060m, was up 3% expressed in sterling and 4% in euros.
The reported tax charge of 96m a141m compares with a charge of 237m a346m in the prior year principally reflecting favourable settlement of tax on prior year disposals and movements on deferred tax balances arising on unrealised exchange differences on long term inter-affiliate lending.
These deferred tax movements are recognised in the income statement but are not expected to crystallise in the foreseeable future.
The reported attributable profit of 623m a916m compares with a reported 6% attributable profit of 462m a675m in 2005, reflecting the strong operating performance and the lower reported tax charge.
Revenue was up 6% at constant currencies 5% Organic revenue growth was 5% at constant currencies 21 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 Adjusted figures Adjusted operating profit, at 1,210m a1,779m, was up 6% expressed in sterling and up 7% in euros.
At constant exchange rates, adjusted operating profits were up 9%, or 8% excluding acquisitions and disposals.
Underlying operating margins improved by 0.7 percentage points, reflecting the good revenue growth and continuing cost actions to improve operational efficiency.
Overall adjusted operating margins, up 0.3 percentage points at 22.4%, were held back by the inclusion of lower margin acquisitions and currency effects, most particularly the year on year movement in hedge rates in Elseviers journal subscriptions.
Net finance costs, at 158m a233m, were 18m a29m higher than in the prior year due to higher short term interest rates and the financing cost of acquisitions and the share repurchase programme, partly offset by the benefit of strong free 9% cash flow.
Adjusted operating profit was up 9% at Adjusted profit before tax was 1,052m a1,546m, up 5% compared to the prior year constant currencies expressed in sterling and 6% in euros.
At constant exchange rates, adjusted profit before tax was up 9%.
The effective tax rate on adjusted earnings was 24.1% 2005: 24.6%.
The effective tax rate on adjusted earnings excludes the effect of movements in deferred 95% taxation assets and liabilities that are not expected to crystallise in the near term, of adjusted operating profit converted into cash and more closely aligns with cash tax costs.
Adjusted operating profits and taxation are also grossed up for the equity share of taxes in joint ventures.
The adjusted profit attributable to shareholders of 796m a1,170m was up 6% compared to the prior year expressed in both sterling and euros.
At constant exchange rates, adjusted profit attributable to shareholders was up 9%.
Cash flows and debt Adjusted operating cash flow was 1,152m a1,693m, up 7% expressed in both sterling and euros, and 7% at constant currencies.
The rate of conversion of adjusted operating profits into cash flow was 95% 2005: 95% reflecting the continuing focus on capital discipline and managing working capital as the business expands.
Capital expenditure included within adjusted operating cash flow was 196m a288m 2005: 195m a285m, including 108m a159m in respect of capitalised development costs included within intangible assets.
Spend on acquisitions was 171m a251m including deferred consideration payable.
22 Chief Financial Officers report Acquisition integration spend in respect of these and other recent acquisitions Chief Financial Officers amounted to 26m a37m principally in respect of the MediMedia MAP report continued integration.
Free cash flow after interest and taxation was 817m a1,201m, up Reed Elsevier PLC 53m a85m.
Dividends paid to shareholders in the year amount to 371m a545m 2005: 336m a491m.
Share repurchases by the parent companies amounted to Adjusted EPS 217m a319m.
Additional shares of the parent companies were purchased by the employee benefit trust for 68m a100m to meet future obligations in respect of 33.6p share based remuneration.
Net proceeds from share issuance under share option 31.5p 7% programmes were 93m a137m.
at reported currencies Net borrowings at 31 December 2006 were 2,314m a3,448m 2005: 2,694m a3,933m, a decrease of 380m in sterling and a485m in euros since 31 December 2005 principally due to foreign exchange translation effects following 11% the significant weakening of the US dollar between the beginning and end of the year.
These translation effects decreased net debt expressed in sterling by 277m at constant currencies and in euros by a333m.
Additionally, net debt benefited from the free cash flow 05 06 less dividends and share buy backs and acquisition spend.
Dividends Reed Elsevier parent companies 15.9p Change at Change constant 14.4p Reed Elsevier PLC 2006 2005 % currencies Reported earnings per share 25.6p 18.6p 38% Adjusted earnings per share 33.6p 31.5p 7% 11% Dividend per share 15.9p 14.4p 10% 10% Change at Change constant Reed Elsevier NV 2006 2005 % currencies 05 06 Reported earnings per share d0.59 a0.43 37% Dividends in respect of the 2006 financial year Adjusted earnings per share d0.76 a0.70 9% 11% Dividend per share d0.406 a0.359 13% Reed Elsevier NV Earnings per share For the parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, adjusted Adjusted EPS earnings per share were respectively up 7% at 33.6p 2005: 31.5p and 9% at a0.76 2005: a0.70.
At constant rates of exchange, the adjusted earnings per share of d0.76 both companies increased by 11% over the prior year.
9% d0.70 Shares repurchased in the year under the annual share repurchase plan at reported currencies announced in February 2006 totalled 20.6 million ordinary shares of Reed Elsevier PLC and 13.4 million ordinary shares of Reed Elsevier NV.
Taking into account the associated financing cost, these share repurchases are estimated to have added 0.5% to adjusted earnings per share in 2006.
11% at constant The reported earnings per share for Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders were 25.6p currencies 2005: 18.6p and for Reed Elsevier NV shareholders were a0.59 2005: a0.43.
05 06 Dividends Dividends The equalised final dividends proposed are 11.8p per share for Reed Elsevier PLC and a0.304 per share for Reed Elsevier NV up 10% and 14% on the prior year d0.406 respectively.
This gives total dividends for the year of 15.9p and a0.406, up 10% and 13% on 2005 respectively.
The difference in dividend growth rates d0.359 reflects the movement in the euro:sterling exchange rate between dividend announcement dates.
13% 05 06 Mark Armour Dividends in r espect of the 2006 financial year Chief Financial Officer 23 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 Our dedication to being a leader in our markets Corporate responsibility encompasses corporate responsibility Our corporate responsibility 2006 corporate responsibility commitment achievements Our dedication to being a leader in all our markets encompasses corporate Governance responsibility CR : our commitment to The Corporate Responsibility Forum, operate profitably, ethically and openly, chaired by CEO Sir Crispin Davis, making continuous improvements for with executives representing all the benefit of shareholders, employees, major business functions, met twice customers, suppliers, our communities to review CR policies, objectives and and local environments.
In addition, engagement with members was ongoing throughout 2006 corporate responsibility the year.
CR is also reviewed regularly highlights with the Reed Elsevier board.
We set definitive objectives in the five areas comprising our core CR risks We continued to take proactive steps on and opportunities: CR legislation gaining full compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley legislation by yearGovernance: Use Corporate end.
For the benefit of global employees Responsibility Forum to monitor we made improvements to the Policy CR risks, policy and programmes: Zone, a section of the corporate proactive steps on CR legislation: intranet containing Reed Elseviers core increase training on Reed Elsevier policy documents and links to useful Code of Ethics and Business Conduct sources.
To further help staff stay to 10,000 employees: extensive abreast of relevant legislation, our stakeholder engagement, and businesses develop customised new policy initiatives: UN Global programmes.
Exemplary is LexisNexis Compact country network Competing Fairly, an online course involvement in three countries focused on competition law completed by 1,100 sales managers in the year.
Marketplace: Customer Focus Reed Elsevier internal audit is a partner through value-added online in CR endeavours, advising on survey services: new processes to methodology, key performance encourage customer feedback: indicators and data analysis.
roll-out of Reed Elsevier Editorial Policy: expand Socially We updated our Code of Ethics and Responsible Supplier network The Policy Zone on aREna, Reed Elseviers Business Conduct, highlighting the to new categories, including corporate intranet, provides employees with core changes to all staff in a message from data converters and shippers company policies and codes.
the CEO, including a simplified conflict Workplace: Broader roll-out of of interest policy.
We made it easier 1:1 coaching programme: conduct for staff to report Code violations by Global Employee Opinion Survey implementing a toll-free, confidential and develop action plan based line for US employees and an electronic on results: progress Health and access form for filing anonymous Safety Survey complaints.
We also trained 13,000 employees in a new online Code Community: Deepen Reed Elsevier training course developed with input Cares programme in major business from Reed Elsevier divisional locations: expansion to new compliance committees.
geographies: increase volunteerism by 10% from 2005 benchmark We met with investors and analysts in Environment: Continue to advance the UK and the Netherlands to review environmental goals by key facility: our CR and corporate governance introduce gREen Teams in 75% performance.
Goldman Sachs scored of key facilities: develop transport Reed Elsevier in the first quartile policies at all four divisions: among European media companies on environmental certification pilot: environmental, social and governance LexisNexis Singapore colleagues spend external assurance of environmental issues.
Government engagement a day with new friends at the Red Cross Home data pilot encompassed dialogue with the for the Disabled.
24 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued European Union on sustainable cities customers across ten markets.
Deep Across Reed Elsevier we have through our involvement with Respect Insight delves into customer views of developed new processes to Table, as well as consultation with the Reed Elsevier and results have driven encourage customer feedback UK Treasury Cabinet Office on improvement strategies.
Reed Business including the Reed Business corporate community involvement.
We also instituted a usability programme to gained important feedback in one on garner customer feedback to drive Deep Insight programme one meetings with non-governmental product launches, including an update focused on 500 key online organisations NGOs like Earthwatch, to Kellysearch online, which features and print customers across the World Wildlife Fund, and the Global product, service and company ten markets.
Reporting Initiative, and engaged with information on over 2 million industry peers through the Media CSR companies worldwide.
Employees shared opinions We expanded our Socially through Crispins Open Door, a section We rolled out the Reed Elsevier Editorial Responsible Supplier network, of the corporate intranet which allows Policy, developed in 2005 with crosswhich tracks the social and them to ask questions of and receive business input, to the top 200 managers environmental performance answers from the CEO, and were in Reed Elsevier requesting that they additionally engaged in Reed Elsevier cascade it throughout their of key suppliers, to include CR activities through a bi-annual organisations.
A message from the CEO new categories such as data CR newsletter.
explained the Editorial Policy lays out converters and shippers.
our commitment to editorial freedom: Reed Elsevier takes an active role in original, accurate, fair and timely promoting the UN Global Compact information which avoids bias, UNGC to which we are a signatory.
defamation and conflict of interest: We connected UNGC networks with and makes a clear distinction between our businesses in the Netherlands editorial, advertising or other content.
and South Africa, and in the UK have led the communications group which We expanded our Socially Responsible culminated in the launch of a website Supplier network, which tracks the for the UNGC UK Network.
social and environmental performance of key suppliers, to include new Marketplace categories such as data converters The Reed Elsevier value, Customer and shippers.
We continued an active Focus, was expressed through programme of internal and external continued development of online audits, and conducted both a 2006 products and services for customers Paper Survey and a Socially Responsible including Elseviers Mosby Nursing Supplier Survey, creating opportunities Skills online which gives nurses for supplier dialogue on essential issues.
training on demand through nearly 500 interactive sessions: the LexisNexis Workplace Toolbar which legal customers can We seek to employ a diverse workforce download in order to access LexisNexis that reflects our customer base.
In services from any website: Harcourts 2006, our senior management group Fast Phonics First Interactive, which comprised 15 nationalities, with women advances literacy through fun games occupying 21% of these positions, up and activities, allowing children to blend from 9% five years ago.
We broadened and segment letters on screen and to our 1:1 coaching programme which hear sounds aloud: and Reed arms managers with coaching skills Businesss Flight website which brings to improve employee satisfaction and together essential aviation brands, performance with nearly 4,000 providing a single destination for participants in the year, including customers to access news, market 73 internal facilitators.
We saw a 4% increase in responses Across Reed Elsevier we have to the 2006 Global Employee Opinion 4,000 developed new processes to encourage Survey to 81% with an overall customer feedback including the Reed favourable survey composite of 60% We broadened our 1:1 coaching programme Business Deep Insight programme compared with 57% in 2003.
The with nearly 4,000 participants in the year, including 73 internal facilitators focused on 500 key online and print highest scoring areas included Reed 25 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 We continue to grow and deepen the Reed Elsevier Cares programmes in major business locations and new markets Elseviers support for the community To aid Environmental Champions and ethical business practice: a engaged in goal setting, we hold listening tour is underway to discover regular calls and meetings to share best practice in high-scoring locations best practice and developed an with group level actions around lowEnvironmental Workbook to make data scoring norms.
gathering for the annual Reed Elsevier Environmental Survey easier and Reed Elsevier is a member of FTSE4Good, the Per Cent Club and the Dow Jones We progressed our Health and Safety more robust.
Sustainability Index Survey garnering data for over 75% of our key facilities and developed a global We introduced gREen Teams Health and Safety Champions network employee environment groups in 75% with regular meetings and resources.
of our key facilities, constituting 86 sites We also launched our first Health around the world.
They helped with our and Safety Awareness Week focused successful 2006 World Environment Day on risk identification, training and campaign on transport which resulted stress reduction.
in over 800 staff submitting transport improvement ideas and the Community development of transport policies We continued to grow and deepen the across Reed Elsevier.
RE Cares programme in major business locations and new markets, With our LexisNexis UK business we reflected in the expansion of the Two implemented a phased approach to Days programme which gives all staff achieving ISO 14001 environmental the right to take up to Two Days off for accreditation resulting in a Phase I work in the community that matters to certification with full certification them by 19% over the previous year.
Likewise, we piloted Our annual international RE Cares external auditing of UK environmental Month featured hundreds of activities data which will be expanded in 2007 to touching thousands of employees.
We donated 2.2 million in cash Reed Elsevier is a member of donations including matching gift FTSE4Good, the Per Cent Club and programmes and the equivalent of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index: 1.3 million in gifts of products, scored in the top 50 of UK companies services and staff time in 2006.
We participating in Business in the BookAid International is a charity promoting continue to develop our flagship Communitys Corporate Responsibility literacy in developing countries.
Reed Elsevier partnership with BookAid International, Index: won a highly commended supports BookAid International library who have channelled over 500,000 of certificate for our CR activities in the development programmes in Sierra Leone and our books over the last four years to UK National Business Awards for the Namibia which foster a reading culture among institutions in the developing world, second year: ranked first in our sector young people and their families.
completing in 2006 a three year library with a AAA Combined Environmental IVA development programme in Sierra rating from Innovest: and were named Leone and Namibia, designed for the second year one of the Global to foster a reading culture among 100 Sustainable Companies during the young people and their families.
World Economic Forum in Davos.
Environment Our full CR Report, with 2006 data on Our environmental targets are to the five areas and objectives for the achieve a 10% reduction in energy and year ahead, will be available in April at water consumption and a 10% increase www.
in waste recycling by 2008, from a 2003 baseline.
In 2005, we exceeded our waste recycling target and have reduced our energy and water consumption by 3% and 6% respectively.
Elsevier Japan colleagues undertake a gardening project at a childrens home in Tokyo.
26 Directors 123 456 789 10 11 12 13 14 15 27 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 Directors Executive directors and chief financial officer of Royal Philips 13 Lord Sharman 1 Sir Crispin Davis 57 Electronics NV until his retirement of Redlynch OBE 63 Chief Executive Officer since 1999. in 2005.
Chairman of the Audit Knighted in 2004 for services to the Committee.
Non-executive 8 Dien fide Boer-Kruyt 62 of Aviva PLC and Aegis Group plc, a director of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Member of the non-executive director of BG Group plc joining Reed Elsevier was Chief Executive supervisory boards of Sara Lee and a member of the supervisory board Officer of Aegis Group plc.
From 1990 to International a subsidiary of Sara Lee of ABN-AMRO NV.
Member of the House 1993 was a member of the main board Corporation, Imtech NV and Allianz of Lords since 1999.
Was chairman of at Guinness plc and Group Managing Nederland Group NV.
Member of the KPMG Worldwide until 1999, having Director of United Distillers.
Spent his supervisory board of the National joined KPMG in 1966. early career with Procter & Gamble.
Registry of non-executive directors and director of the leadership programs 14 Rolf Stomberg 66 2 Mark Armour 52 Call and Ravel, for leaders in business, Appointed 1999.
Senior independent Chief Financial Officer since 1996.
non-executive director and Chairman of to joining Reed Elsevier as Deputy Chief the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman Financial Officer in 1995, was a partner 9 Mark Elliott 57 of Management Consulting Group PLC in Price Waterhouse.
General Manager and of the supervisory board of Lanxess IBM Global Solutions.
Held a number of AG and Francotype AG.
Non-executive 3 Gerard van fide Aast 49 positions with IBM, including Managing director of Smith & Nephew PLC, AOA Chief Executive Officer of the Reed Director of IBM Europe, Middle East Severstal, TNT NV, Deutsche BP AG, Business division since 2000.
Served on the board of IBAX, HOYER GmbH and Biesterfeld AG.
the supervisory board of Oc N. V. Prior to a hospital software company jointly Formerly a director of The British joining Reed Elsevier was Vice President owned by IBM and Baxter Healthcare, Petroleum Company plc where he spent and General Manager of Compaqs and as chairman of the Deans Advisory 27 years, latterly as Chief Executive of Enterprise business in Europe, Middle council of the Kelly School of Business, BP Oil International.
Non-executive director of Group 4 Securicor PLC.
15 Strauss Zelnick 49 4 Erik Engstrom 43 Appointed 2005.
Founder of ZelnickMedia Chief Executive Officer of the Elsevier 10 Lisa Hook 48 Corporation in 2001.
Prior to joining Reed Appointed 2006.
President, Chief Columbia Music Entertainment Inc, Elsevier was a partner at General Atlantic Executive Officer and Chairman of ITN Networks and OTX Corporation.
Before that was president and SunRocket, Inc. Before that was to founding ZelnickMedia was President chief operating officer of Random House.
President of AOL Broadband Premium and Chief Executive Officer of BMG Began his career as a consultant with and Developer Services.
Prior to joining Entertainment from 1998, and before McKinsey.
Served as a non-executive AOL, was a founding partner at Brera that President and Chief Executive Officer director of Eniro AB.
Previously was of BMG Entertainment North America.
Chief Operating Officer of Time Warner Has served as the Chief Executive 5 Andrew Prozes 61 Telecom.
Has served as Senior Advisor Officer of Crystal Dynamics and as the Chief Executive Officer of the LexisNexis to the Federal Communications President and Chief Operating Officer division since 2000.
Non-executive Commission Chairman and as senior of 20th Century Fox.
Prior to counsel to Viacom Cable.
joining Reed Elsevier was an Executive Board Committee Membership Vice President with the West Group, 11 Cees van Lede 64 Audit Committee: Reed Elsevier part of the Thomson Corporation and Appointed 2003.
Chairman of the Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC prior to that was Group President of supervisory board of Heineken NV and a and Reed Elsevier NV Southam Inc. member of the supervisory board of Akzo Nominations Committee: joint Reed Nobel NV and Royal Philips Electronics Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV 6 Patrick Tierney 61 NV.
Non-executive director of Air France Remuneration Committee: Reed Chief Executive Officer of the Harcourt KLM, Air Liquide SA and Sara Lee Elsevier Group plc Education division since 2003.
Chairman of INSEAD Corporate Governance Committee: joining Reed Elsevier was chief executive and a Senior Advisor for Europe of joint Reed Elsevier PLC and officer of Thomson Financial, part of the JP Morgan.
Was chairman of Reed Elsevier NV Thomson Corporation.
the board of management of Akzo Nobel NV until his retirement in 2003.
All of the executive directors are directors Non-executive directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier 7 Jan Hommen 63 12 David Reid 60 PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Non-executive chairman of the supervisory board of TNT NV, of Tesco PLC, having previously been Mrs Dien fide Boer-Kruyt is a member of Academisch Ziekenhuis Maastricht executive deputy chairman until the supervisory board of Reed Elsevier NV.
and TiasNimbas, business school of the December 2003, and finance director All of the other non-executive directors University of Tilburg.
Chairman of Kwik-Fit are directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc, supervisory board of Koninklijke Ahold and previously a non-executive director Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Was viceof fide Vere PLC, Legal & General PLC chairman of the board of management and Westbury PLC.
28 Corporate governance Corporate governance the Supervisory Board.
Mr van Lede will retire as a member Structure of the Supervisory Board at the conclusion of the Annual Equalisation arrangements General Meeting and a resolution to appoint Mr Robert Polet Under the equalisation arrangements entered into on the as a member of the Supervisory Board will be submitted to merger of Reed Elsevier PLCs and Reed Elsevier NVs the meeting.
Messrs Armour and Engstrom will retire by businesses in 1993, Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders have a rotation as members of the Executive Board.
The 52.9% economic interest in Reed Elsevier, and Reed Elsevier Nominations Committee has recommended to the Combined NV shareholders other than Reed Elsevier PLC have a Board the re-appointment of the respective directors and the 47.1% economic interest in Reed Elsevier.
Holders of ordinary appointment of Mr Polet.
Being eligible, they will each shares in the two companies enjoy substantially equivalent offer themselves for election.
dividend and capital rights with respect to their ordinary shares.
The boards of the two parent companies have Committees agreed, other than in special circumstances, to recommend In accordance with the principles of good corporate equivalent gross dividends including, with respect to governance, the boards have established Audit, Nominations, the dividend on Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares, the Remuneration and Corporate Governance Committees.
associated UK tax credit, based on the equalisation ratio.
A report of the Audit Committees is included in the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006.
Corporate governance Compliance with codes of best practice Internal control The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV support the principles and provisions of corporate governance exercise independent supervisory roles over the activities and systems of internal control of Reed Elsevier Group plc and set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 the UK Code, including the revised Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
The board of Reed Elsevier Group plc is responsible for the system of internal control of the Turnbull guidance issued in October 2005, and the Dutch Corporate Governance Code issued in December 2003 the publishing and information businesses, while the boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV are responsible for the system Dutch Code.
Other than as explained in the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006, Reed Elsevier of internal control in respect of the finance group activities.
The boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed PLC, which has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange, and Reed Elsevier NV, which has its primary Finance BV have implemented an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks listing on Euronext in Amsterdam, have complied throughout the period under review with the UK Code and the faced by their respective businesses.
This process has been in place throughout the year ended 31 December 2006 and Dutch Code respectively.
up to the date of the approvals of the Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006.
Boards The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, As part of the year end procedures, the boards of Reed Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV each comprise a balance of executive and non-executive Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV review the effectiveness of directors who bring a wide range of skills and experience to the deliberations of the boards.
the systems of internal control and risk management during the last financial year.
The objective of these systems is to Biographical information in respect of the current members manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Accordingly, they can only provide of the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV boards appears on page 27.
The non-executive directors meet on an reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
annual basis to review the performance of individual directors and the functioning and constitution of the boards as a whole.
In accordance with the Dutch Code, the boards have At the Reed Elsevier PLC Annual General Meeting to be held confirmed, subject to the above, that the respective risk management and control systems as regards financial on 17 April 2007, Messrs Armour, Engstrom, Hommen and Stomberg and Lord Sharman will retire by rotation.
Mr van reporting risks provide reasonable assurance that the financial reporting does not contain material inaccuracies Lede will retire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and a resolution to appoint Robert Polet as a and have functioned properly during the year.
Non-Executive Director will be submitted to the meeting.
The Nominations Committee has recommended to the Going concern The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, Board the re-appointment of the respective directors and the appointment of Mr Polet.
Being eligible, they will each having made appropriate enquiries, consider that adequate resources exist for the combined businesses to continue in offer themselves for election.
operational existence for the foreseeable future and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis At the Reed Elsevier NV Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 April 2007, Messrs Hommen and Stomberg in preparing the financial statements.
and Lord Sharman will retire by rotation as members of 29 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 Summary financial statements Introduction The summary financial statements which follow are a The summary financial statements include adjusted figures summary of information contained in the Reed Elsevier for profit and cash flows.
These figures are used by Reed Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006.
They do not Elsevier as additional performance measures.
Adjusted contain sufficient information to allow as full an profit figures are shown before the amortisation of acquired understanding of the results and state of affairs of the Reed intangible assets, acquisition integration costs, disposals Elsevier businesses and the parent companies as would be and other non operating items, related tax effects and provided by the full financial statements.
Shareholders who movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities that wish to receive, free of charge, a copy of the Reed Elsevier are not expected to crystallise in the near term.
Adjusted Annual Reports and Financial Statements for the year ended operating profits are also grossed up to exclude the equity 31 December 2006, or future Annual Reports, should write share of taxes in joint ventures.
Adjusted operating cash to the registered offices of either Reed Elsevier PLC at flow is measured after dividends from joint ventures and 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5JR, UK or Reed Elsevier NV net capital expenditure, but before payments in relation at Radarweg 29, 1043 Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements are also available on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
Summary report of the directors Information relating to a review of the activities of Reed Elsevier and of future developments in the business is given in the Chairman and Chief Executives report on pages 4 to 7, the summary business overview on pages 16 to 19 and the Chief Financial Officers report on pages 20 to 22.
The Reed Elsevier directors who served during the year and their respective remuneration are shown in the summary directors remuneration report on pages 37 to 41.
Details of dividends paid and proposed are given for Reed Elsevier PLC on page 32 and for Reed Elsevier NV on page 34.
Basis of preparation The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their respective subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, together with the two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV the combined businesses.
The Reed Elsevier PLC summary financial information reflects its shareholders 52.9% economic interest in the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
The Reed Elsevier NV summary financial information reflects its shareholders 50% economic interest in the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
The respective economic interests of the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders take account of Reed Elsevier PLCs 5.8% equity interest in Reed Elsevier NV.
30 Summary financial statements Reed Elsevier combined businesses Summary combined income statement 2006 2005 2006 2005 For the year ended 31 December m m dm am Revenue 5,398 5,166 7,935 7,542 Operating profit before joint ventures 862 823 1,267 1,202 Share of results of joint ventures 18 16 27 23 Operating profit 880 839 1,294 1,225 Net finance costs 158 140 233 204 Disposals and other non operating items 1 2 1 2 Profit before tax 721 701 1,060 1,023 Taxation 96 237 141 346 Net profit for the year 625 464 919 677 Attributable to: Parent companies shareholders 623 462 916 675 Minority interests 2 2 3 2 Net profit for the year 625 464 919 677 Summary combined statement of recognised income and expense 2006 2005 2006 2005 For the year ended 31 December m m dm am Net profit for the year 625 464 919 677 Net expense income recognised directly in equity 108 133 101 277 Transfer to net profit from hedge reserve net of tax 5 19 7 28 Total recognised income and expense for the year 512 578 811 926 Summary combined cash flow statement 2006 2005 2006 2005 For the year ended 31 December m m dm am Net cash from operating activities 974 910 1,432 1,329 Net cash used in investing activities 302 455 444 665 Net cash used in financing activities 433 389 637 568 Increase in cash and cash equivalents 239 66 351 96 Exchange translation differences 16 5 9 19 At start of year 296 225 432 317 At end of year 519 296 774 432 Adjusted figures 2006 2005 2006 2005 For the year ended 31 December m m dm am Adjusted operating profit 1,210 1,142 1,779 1,667 Adjusted profit before tax 1,052 1,002 1,546 1,463 Adjusted profit attributable to parent companies shareholders 796 754 1,170 1,101 Adjusted operating cash flow 1,152 1,080 1,693 1,577 31 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 Reed Elsevier combined businesses Summary combined balance sheet 2006 2005 2006 2005 As at 31 December m m dm am Non-current assets 5,937 6,704 8,846 9,787 Current assets 2,595 2,363 3,867 3,450 Assets held for sale 60 88 Total assets 8,532 9,127 12,713 13,325 Current liabilities 3,334 3,438 4,968 5,020 Non-current liabilities 3,219 3,693 4,796 5,391 Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 11 16 Total liabilities 6,553 7,142 9,764 10,427 Net assets 1,979 1,985 2,949 2,898 Combined shareholders equity 1,966 1,970 2,929 2,876 Minority interests 13 15 20 22 Total equity 1,979 1,985 2,949 2,898 Adjusted figures 2006 2005 2006 2005 For the year ended 31 December m m dm am Operating profit 880 839 1,294 1,225 Adjustments: Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 297 276 436 403 Acquisition integration costs 23 21 34 30 Reclassification of tax in joint ventures 10 6 15 9 Adjusted operating profit 1,210 1,142 1,779 1,667 Profit before tax 721 701 1,060 1,023 Adjustments: Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 297 276 436 403 Acquisition integration costs 23 21 34 30 Reclassification of tax in joint ventures 10 6 15 9 Disposals and other non operating items 1 2 1 2 Adjusted profit before tax 1,052 1,002 1,546 1,463 Profit attributable to parent companies shareholders 623 462 916 675 Adjustments post tax : Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 324 310 476 452 Acquisition integration costs 16 17 24 24 Disposals and other non operating items 64 2 95 2 Deferred tax not expected to crystallise in the near term: Unrealised exchange differences on long term inter affiliate lending 22 44 32 64 Acquired intangible assets 87 65 128 95 Other 6 12 9 17 Adjusted profit attributable to parent companies shareholders 796 754 1,170 1,101 Cash generated from operations 1,304 1,223 1,917 1,786 Dividends received from joint ventures 16 16 24 23 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 88 93 129 136 Proceeds on disposals of property, plant and equipment 2 8 3 12 Expenditure on internally developed intangible assets 108 102 159 149 Payments in relation to acquisition integration costs 26 28 37 41 Adjusted operating cash flow 1,152 1,080 1,693 1,577 32 Summary financial statements Reed Elsevier PLC Summary consolidated income statement 2006 2005 For the year ended 31 December m m Administrative expenses 2 2 Effect of tax credit equalisation on distributed earnings 10 9 Share of results of joint ventures 343 252 Operating profit 331 241 Finance charges income 3 1 Profit before tax 328 242 Taxation 8 7 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 320 235 Earnings per ordinary share EPS 2006 2005 For the year ended 31 December pence pence Basic EPS 25.6p 18.6p Diluted EPS 25.3p 18.4p Adjusted EPS 33.6p 31.5p Dividends Reed Elsevier PLC has declared and paid dividends in the year of 10.7p per ordinary share in respect of the prior year final dividend 2005: 9.6p and 4.1p per ordinary share in respect of the 2006 interim dividend 2005: 3.7p.
The total cost of dividends declared and paid in 2006 was 186m 2005: 168m.
The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC have proposed a final dividend for the 2006 financial year of 11.8p per ordinary share 2005: 10.7p, which together with the interim dividend gives a total dividend for the year of 15.9p 2005: 14.4p.
The cost of the final dividend, if approved by shareholders, is expected to be 148m.
Dividends paid to Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders are, other than in special circumstances, equalised at the gross level inclusive of the UK tax credit received by certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
An equalisation adjustment equalises the benefit of the UK tax credit between the two sets of shareholders in accordance with the equalisation agreement.
Summary consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 2006 2005 For the year ended 31 December m m Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 320 235 Share of joint ventures net expense income recognised directly in equity 57 71 Share of joint ventures transfer to net profit from hedge reserve 3 10 Total recognised income and expense for the year 260 296 33 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 Reed Elsevier PLC Summary consolidated cash flow statement 2006 2005 For the year ended 31 December m m Cash used by operations 2 2 Interest paid received 3 1 Tax paid 6 8 Dividends received from joint ventures 596 168 Equity dividends paid 186 168 Proceeds on issue of ordinary shares 47 14 Purchase of treasury shares 112 Increase in net funding balances due from joint ventures 334 5 Movements in cash and cash equivalents Summary consolidated balance sheet 2006 2005 As at 31 December m m Non-current assets: Investments in joint ventures 156 490 Current assets: Amounts due from joint ventures 934 600 Total assets 1,090 1,090 Current liabilities 50 12 Non-current liabilities: Amounts owed to joint ventures 36 Total liabilities 50 48 Net assets 1,040 1,042 Total equity 1,040 1,042 The consolidated balance sheet of Reed Elsevier PLC reflects its shareholders 52.9% economic interest in the net assets less minority interests of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
Approved by the Board of Directors, 14 February 2007.
J Hommen M H Armour Chairman Chief Financial Officer 34 Summary financial statements Reed Elsevier NV Summary consolidated income statement 2006 2005 For the year ended 31 December dm am Administrative expenses 3 3 Share of results of joint ventures 455 339 Operating profit 452 336 Finance income 7 2 Profit before tax 459 338 Taxation 1 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 458 338 Earnings per ordinary share EPS For the year ended 31 December 2006 2005 Basic EPS d0.59 a0.43 Diluted EPS d0.59 a0.43 Adjusted EPS d0.76 a0.70 Dividends Reed Elsevier NV has declared and paid dividends in the year of a0.267 per ordinary share in respect of the prior year final dividend 2005: a0.240 and a0.102 per ordinary share in respect of the 2006 interim dividend 2005: a0.092.
The total cost of dividends declared and paid in 2006 was a272m 2005: a245m.
The directors of Reed Elsevier NV have proposed a final dividend of a0.304 per ordinary share 2005: a0.267, which together with the interim dividend gives a total dividend for the year of a0.406 2005: a0.359.
The cost of the final dividend, if approved by shareholders, is expected to be a223m.
Dividends paid to Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders, other than in special circumstances, are equalised at the gross level inclusive of the UK tax credit received by certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
The equalisation adjustment equalises the benefit of the tax credit between the two sets of shareholders in accordance with the equalisation agreement.
Summary consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 2006 2005 For the year ended 31 December dm am Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 458 338 Share of joint ventures net expense income recognised directly in equity 50 138 Share of joint ventures transfer to net profit from hedge reserve 4 14 Total recognised income and expense for the year 404 462 35 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 Reed Elsevier NV Summary consolidated cash flow statement 2006 2005 For the year ended 31 December dm am Cash used by operations 3 5 Interest received 12 1 Tax paid received 1 2 Dividends received from joint ventures 1,111 189 Equity dividends paid 272 245 Proceeds on issue of ordinary shares 68 18 Purchase of treasury shares 156 Increase decrease in net funding balances due from joint ventures 612 16 Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 147 24 Summary consolidated balance sheet 2006 2005 As at 31 December dm am Non-current assets: Investments in joint ventures 760 1,487 Amounts due from joint ventures 629 22 Other current assets 148 1 Current assets 777 23 Total assets 1,537 1,510 Current liabilities 72 72 Total liabilities 72 72 Net assets 1,465 1,438 Total equity 1,465 1,438 The consolidated balance sheet of Reed Elsevier NV reflects its shareholders 50% economic interest in the net assets less minority interests of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
Approved by the Combined Board of Directors, 14 February 2007.
J Hommen M H Armour Chairman Chief Financial Officer 36 Independent auditors statement Independent auditors statement to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC and shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV We have examined the summary financial statements of the Basis of opinion Reed Elsevier combined businesses, and of Reed Elsevier We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 PLC and Reed Elsevier NV which comprise the summary The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial income statements, summary statements of recognised Statement issued by the United Kingdom Auditing income and expense, summary cash flow statements, Practices Board.
summary balance sheets and additionally in respect of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, the earnings Opinion per share and dividend notes and summary directors In our opinion, the summary financial statements are remuneration report and, in respect of the Reed Elsevier consistent with the full financial statements of the combined businesses, a reconciliation of reported to Reed Elsevier combined businesses and with the full adjusted figures.
financial statements, directors reports and summary directors remuneration report for Reed Elsevier PLC and Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Reed Elsevier NV for the year ended 31 December 2006 members of Reed Elsevier PLC and shareholders of Reed and, in respect of Reed Elsevier PLC, comply with the Elsevier NV those matters we are required to state to them applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume The auditors reports on the annual accounts of the responsibility to anyone other than Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier combined businesses, of Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier NV, and the members of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV were unqualified.
as a body and shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte Accountants B. V. for the opinions we have formed.
Chartered Accountants J. P. M. Hopmans and Registered Auditors Amsterdam Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors London The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV are 14 February 2007 14 February 2007 responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statements within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements with the full annual financial statements, the directors reports and the directors remuneration report and, in respect of Reed Elsevier PLC, its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We report whether the auditors opinion on the full annual accounts was unqualified or qualified.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
37 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 Summary directors remuneration report This is a summary of the full remuneration report prepared Remuneration objectives by the Remuneration Committee the Committee of The principal objectives of the policy are to attract and Reed Elsevier Group plc and approved by the boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed motivate executives of the highest calibre and experience, Elsevier NV.
The full report, which complies with the UK who are capable of shaping and executing strategy and Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the UK delivering shareholder value in a competitive and increasingly Regulations is contained in the Reed Elsevier Annual global employment market.
The Committee believes that Reports and Financial Statements 2006.
It is also available this requires the following: on the Reed Elsevier website www.
A pay and benefits package which is competitive with packages offered by other leading multinational Executive directors companies operating in global markets, i. e. one which provides upper quartile total remuneration for the The remuneration of executive directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee which, throughout 2006, sustained delivery of superior levels of performance.
consisted wholly of independent non-executive directors: Rolf Stomberg Chairman, Mark Elliott, Cees van Lede A reward structure that links individual performance, company performance and share price performance and, with effect from 24 July 2006, the Reed Elsevier Chairman, Jan Hommen, whose appointment is in line so as to align the interests of the directors with those of Reed Elsevier as a whole and its shareholders.
with the revision to the UK Combined Code.
An approach to performance management that stimulates The remuneration policy has been designed to meet the needs of a group of global business divisions, each of which enhanced performance by directors, recognises their individual contribution to the attainment of our shortoperates internationally by line of business.
In order to support this business structure, it is essential to have a and longer-term results and also encourages the teamwork which is essential to achieve the long term remuneration policy which: strategic objectives.
aids the attraction and retention of the best executive talent from anywhere in the world: and The Committee believes that the main driver of long term shareholder value is sustained growth in profitability.
In underpins Reed Elseviers demanding performance relation to shareholders, the primary measure of profitability is growth in adjusted earnings per share which is supported, standards.
at an operational level, by the measures of revenue growth, profitability, cash generation and return on invested capital.
The challenges and demands created by the need for global market competitiveness as well as for internal consistency In addition, recognising shareholders preference for longer term incentive arrangements to include a performance have led the Committee to apply a common and consistent set of standards to the design and operation of its incentive measure based on shareholder return, a further measure of total shareholder return relative to a focused peer plans, including the level of incentive opportunity.
group applies to awards made under the LTIS from 2006.
These measures are integrated into our reward structure.
The Committee believes that in order to meet its remuneration objectives, the remuneration of executive In all cases payments are made against a sliding scale of performance achievement, since this is the most direct directors should comprise a balance between fixed and variable performance-related pay elements with the way to link pay with performance.
greater proportion of potential reward being linked to performance.
For superior performance, some 60% of each The variable pay elements of remuneration include an annual incentive plan AIP and longer term incentives, namely the directors total target remuneration is performance-related.
bonus investment plan BIP, the long term incentive LTIS and executive share options ESOS.
The Committee regularly reviews remuneration policy to ensure that it is sufficiently flexible to take account both of future changes in Reed Elseviers business operations Remuneration in practice and environment and of key developments in remuneration practice.
Consequently, the policy set out in this report has The Committees practice is to review the market applied during 2006 and will apply in 2007 subject to any competitiveness of base salary on the following basis: necessary changes.
UK-based directors against FTSE 50 companies excluding financial services : and US-based directors or directors on US-market based reward packages against US media industry companies.
38 Summary directors remuneration report Summary directors remuneration report continued Annual incentive plan AIP The awards made to executive directors are subject to Based on achievement of financial performance targets an annual maximum of three times base salary.
set against the critical measures of revenue growth, profit, cash generation and key performance objectives KPOs.
On vesting a further performance condition is applied such that the compound growth in adjusted EPS at For 2007, payment against each financial performance constant currencies during the three years following grant must be at least 6% per annum.
There is no measure will only commence if a threshold of 97.5% of the target is achieved for 2006 this was 94%.
retesting of the performance condition.
Directors have a target bonus opportunity of 90% of salary, Long term incentive LTIS In line with its previous commitment to shareholders the which is payable for the achievement of highly stretching financial targets, which align with the annual budget and Committee reviewed the operation of the LTIS in 2006 and shareholders approved changes to its operation which apply the parent companies minimum 10% constant currency adjusted EPS objective, and for outstanding performance to awards made from 2006. against KPOs.
For 2007, a maximum of 150% of salary could be paid for exceptional performance for 2006 this All executive directors will be eligible to receive an annual grant of performance shares with a target value of 135% was 110%.
All targets are approved by the Committee at the beginning of the year.
Bonus investment plan BIP In addition to achieving a demanding EPS performance target over a three year period, an additional TSR Designed to encourage increased personal shareholding by the participant.
performance target over the same three year period is also applied.
Directors and other designated key senior executives may The effect of the combination of these two measures is invest up to half of any payment they receive under the AIP in shares of Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV.
shown in the following table, which sets out the potential payment as a percentage of the initial target award: Subject to continued employment, and to their retaining LTIS Performance Schedule these investment shares during a three-year performance period, they will be awarded an equivalent number of TSR Ranking matching shares.
Adjusted EPS growth Below 62.5 Upper constant currencies per annum median Median percentile quartile The award of matching shares is dependent on the Below 8% 0% 0% 0% 0% achievement of a performance condition.
In 2006, this 8% 28% 35% 42% 49% was the achievement of at least 6% per annum adjusted 10% 80%100%120%140% EPS growth at constant currencies.
12% and over 108% 135% 162% 189% Executive share options ESOS The Committee considers this performance condition to be Annual grants of options are made over shares in tougher than normal UK practice because the TSR element Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV at the market can improve the reward to participants if, but only if, the price at date of grant.
adjusted EPS test has first been achieved.
The standard performance condition, which governs the The Committee has full discretion to reduce or cancel awards size of grant for all participants, relates to the compound granted to participants based on its assessment as to annual growth in adjusted EPS at constant currencies over whether the EPS and TSR performance fairly reflects the the three years prior to grant.
The Target Grant Pool for progress of the business having regard to underlying revenue all participants is defined with reference to share usage growth, cash generation, return on capital and any significant during the base year of 2003, as follows: changes in inflation as well as individual performance.
Adjusted EPS growth constant Target Grant Pool currencies per annum as a % of 2003 Grant The awards under the LTIS, agreed with shareholders in 2003 and which cover the period from 2004 to 2006, have Less than 6% 50% 6% or more 75% been approved by the Remuneration Committee at close to their target level.
Further details of these awards can be 8% or more 100% 10% or more 125% seen in the full Directors Remuneration Report on pages 39 and 40 of the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial 12% or more 150% Statements 2006.
39 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 Shareholding requirement Participants in the LTIS are required to build up a significant personal shareholding in Reed Elsevier PLC and or Reed Elsevier NV.
Following shareholders approval of the revised terms of the LTIS at the 2006 AGMs, the shareholding requirement for the Chief Executive Officer is now three times salary previously 1.5 times salary and for other executive directors is two times salary previously 1.5 times salary.
These increased shareholding requirements must be met by February 2009 at the latest.
Service contracts Executive directors are employed under service contracts which generally provide for one years notice and neither specify a pre-determined level of severance payment nor contain specific provisions in respect of change in control.
The service contracts for executive directors and for approximately 130 other senior executives contain detailed non-compete and non-solicitation provisions and in certain circumstances require the repayment of gains made under long term incentive plans.
Non-executive directors Reed Elsevier seeks to recruit non-executive directors with the experience to contribute to the board of a dual-listed global business and with a balance of personal skills which will make a major contribution to the boards and their committee structures.
Non-executive directors, including the Chairman, serve under letters of appointment, do not have contracts of service and are not entitled to notice of, or payments following, termination.
Non-executive directors receive one annual fee in respect of their memberships of the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc and do not receive any performance related bonuses, pension provisions, share options or other forms of benefit.
Fees were last reviewed with effect from 1 May 2003.
Summary of directors emoluments A summary of the emoluments of the directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV including any entitlement to fees or emoluments from either Reed Elsevier Group plc or Elsevier Reed Finance BV is shown below.
Sir Crispin Davis was the highest paid director in 2006.
Bonus investment shares vested over 22,731 Reed Elsevier PLC shares and 16,115 Reed Elsevier NV shares during the year.
The notional gain on the vestings amounted to 252,260 2005: 9,576.
Five executive directors participate in relevant Reed Elsevier pension schemes either in the UK Sir Crispin Davis, M H Armour and G J A van fide Aast or in the US A Prozes and P Tierney.
E Engstrom is not a member of a company pension scheme and Reed Elsevier made a contribution to his personal retirement account.
Total pension contributions made during the year on behalf of directors amounted to 139,113 2005: 134,753.
Pension payments made during the year to a former director amounted to 221,140 2005: 223,570.
40 Summary directors remuneration report Summary directors remuneration report continued Summary of interests in shares Options and restricted shares held by directors in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV at the beginning and end of the year are shown below.
There have been no changes in the options or restricted shares held by directors since 31 December 2006.
Conditional share awards under the Bonus Investment Plan and LTIS were at a nil exercise price.
ii Option exercises during the year were at option prices of 451.5p Reed Elsevier PLC Executive Options, a9.34 Reed Elsevier NV Executive Options and nil for Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Bonus Investment Shares and Restricted Shares.
iii Retained an interest in 9,652 Reed Elsevier PLC shares and 7,411 Reed Elsevier NV shares.
iv Retained an interest in 7,836 Reed Elsevier NV shares.
v Options over 30,000 Reed Elsevier PLC shares at an option price of 585.25p lapsed unexercised.
vi Retained an interest in 13,666 Reed Elsevier PLC shares and 9,708 Reed Elsevier NV shares.
vii Retained an interest in 10,226 Reed Elsevier PLC shares and all of the Reed Elsevier NV shares.
viii Retained an interest in 13,244 Reed Elsevier PLC shares and 9,598 Reed Elsevier NV shares.
ix Retained an interest in all of the shares.
The aggregate notional pre-tax gain made by the directors on the exercise of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV share options and the vesting of conditional share awards during the year was 1,408,072 2005: 471,482.
The interests of the directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV in the issued share capital of the respective companies at the beginning and end of the year are shown below.
There have been no changes in the interests of the directors since 31 December 2006.
41 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares ordinary shares 1 January 31 December 1 January 31 December i i 2006 2006 2006 2006 G J A van fide Aast 18,600 39,169 35,445 57,941 M H Armour 99,321 112,007 38,727 47,150 G J fide Boer-Kruyt Sir Crispin Davis 528,847 567,174 298,261 324,344 M W Elliott E Engstrom 19,253 29,479 26,678 73,415 J Hommen L Hook C J A van Lede 11,100 A Prozes 91,444 123,740 73,632 95,954 D E Reid Lord Sharman of Redlynch R W H Stomberg P Tierney 42,440 72,212 28,902 48,090 S Zelnick i Or date of appointment as a director, if subsequent to 1 January 2006.
TSR graphs The following graphs show the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV total shareholder return performance, assuming dividends were reinvested.
They compare the Reed Elsevier PLC performance with that achieved by the FTSE 100, and the Reed Elsevier NV performance with the performance achieved by the Euronext Amsterdam AEX Index, over the five year period from 20022006.
For the five year period since 1 January 2002, the TSR for Reed Elsevier PLC was 11%, against a FTSE 100 return of 39%.
For Reed Elsevier NV during the same period, TSR was 14%, against an AEX Index return of 16%.
As Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV are members of the FTSE 100 and AEX Index respectively, the Committee considers these indices to be appropriate for comparison purposes.
Reed Elsevier PLC total shareholder return Reed Elsevier NV total shareholder return v FTSE 100 20022006 v AEX Index 20022006 140 140 130 130 FTSE 100 120 120 110 110 Reed Elsevier NV 100 100 90 90 Reed Elsevier PLC 80 80 AEX Index 70 70 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 For the seven year period since 1 January 2000, being the period since Reed Elsevier set out its investment led growth strategy, the TSR for Reed Elsevier PLC was 58%, significantly outperforming the FTSE 100 which showed a return of 14%.
For Reed Elsevier NV, in the same seven year period TSR was 47%, also significantly outperforming the AEX Index which showed a negative return of 4%.
Reed Elsevier PLC total shareholder return Reed Elsevier NV total shareholder return v FTSE 100 20002006 v AEX Index 20002006 170 170 160 160 150 150 Reed Elsevier PLC 140 140 130 130 Reed Elsevier NV 120 120 110 110 100 100 90 90 FTSE 100 AEX Index 80 80 70 70 60 60 50 50 Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 The total shareholder return set out above is calculated on the basis of the average share price in the 30 trading days prior to the respective year ends and on the assumption that dividends were reinvested.
42 Investor information Investor information Annual Reports and Financial Statements Dividends The full Annual Reports and Financial Statements for the Dividends on Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares are paid in Reed Elsevier combined businesses, including Reed Elsevier sterling.
Shareholders can arrange to have their dividends PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, for the year ended 31 December paid directly into a bank or building society account.
This 2006 are available on the Reed Elsevier website, or from the method of payment reduces the risk of delay or loss of registered offices of the respective companies shown on dividend cheques in the post and ensures the account is page 45.
Additional financial information is also available on credited on the dividend payment date.
the Reed Elsevier website, including Interim and Preliminary Results announcements and presentations.
ShareGift The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share Share price information donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of Reed Elsevier PLCs ordinary shares are quoted on the shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme can be obtained from the ShareGift website www.
org or by telephoning ShareGift Reed Elsevier NVs ordinary shares are quoted on the on 020 7337 0501.
Euronext Stock Exchange in Amsterdam.
Share dealing service The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares A telephone and internet dealing service is available through are quoted on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of Lloyds TSB Registrars, which provides a simple way for American Depositary Shares ADSs, evidenced by American UK-resident shareholders to buy or sell Reed Elsevier PLC Depositary Receipts ADRs.
For telephone dealing call 0870 850 0852 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary dealing log on to www.
You will share prices and the ADR prices may be obtained from need your shareholder account number shown on your the Reed Elsevier website and from the financial pages dividend tax voucher.
Individual savings accounts ISA Lloyds TSB Bank plc can provide a single company ISA for Information for Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier PLC shares.
Details of this ISA, which is only ordinary shareholders available to UK-resident shareholders, may be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars by writing to them at the address Shareholder services shown on page 45, or by calling their ISA helpline The Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share register is on 0870 24 24 244. administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Enquiries concerning ordinary shareholdings in Reed Elsevier PLC and notification Sub-division of ordinary shares of change of personal details should be referred to Lloyds On 28 July 1986 each Reed Elsevier PLC 1 ordinary share TSB Registrars at the address shown on page 45. was sub-divided into four ordinary shares of 25p each.
Subsequently, on 2 May 1997 the 25p ordinary shares were Electronic communications sub-divided into two ordinary shares of 12.5p each.
Reed Elsevier PLC has given e-mail notification, to those shareholders who have requested it, of the availability on the Capital gains tax Reed Elsevier website of this Annual Review and Summary The mid-market price of Reed Elsevier PLCs 1 ordinary Financial Statements, the Annual Reports and Financial shares on 31 March 1982 was 282p each which, when Statements and the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
adjusted for the four for one sub-division in 1986 and the The Reed Elsevier website contains a link to enable subsequent two for one sub-division in 1997, gives an shareholders to register for future electronic communications, equivalent amount of 35.25p for each 12.5p ordinary share.
view details of their shareholding or appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their behalf on any poll at the forthcoming Unsolicited mail Annual General Meeting.
Reed Elsevier PLC, along with other publicly owned companies, is legally obliged to make its share register Shareholders who have not registered for electronic available to anyone who requests a copy.
communications can do so online at www.
com, quoting their shareholder account number, which appears on Shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from their dividend tax voucher.
Shareholders who hold their Reed organisations offering their services.
To limit the receipt Elsevier PLC shares through CREST may appoint proxies of such unsolicited mail, shareholders should contact the through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service for Mailing Preference Service MPS on 0845 703 4599, or the forthcoming Annual General Meeting by using the online at www.
uk, or by writing to MPS procedures described in the CREST manual.
for a registration form at: Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.
43 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 Shareholders may still, however, receive unsolicited mail Sub-division of ordinary shares from organisations that do not subscribe to the MPS service.
On 24 April 1984 each Reed Elsevier NV Dfl 20 ordinary share was sub-divided into five ordinary shares of Dfl 4 each, and Warning about unsolicited investment contacts on 24 April 1987 each Dfl 4 ordinary share was sub-divided Over the last year many companies have become aware that into four ordinary shares of Dfl 1 each.
Subsequently, on their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or 4 October 1994 each Dfl 1 ordinary share was sub-divided correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are into 10 ordinary shares of Dfl 0.10 each.
On 15 April 1999 the typically from overseas based brokers who target UK ordinary shares of Dfl 0.10 were redenominated as ordinary shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to shares of a0.06.
be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited Arrangements for Reed Elsevier NV shareholders advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free A Dutch language version of the Annual Review and company reports.
Summary Financial Statements 2006 will be made available on the Reed Elsevier website.
Copies of the Dutch language If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: version can also be obtained from Reed Elsevier NV, at the Make sure you get the correct name of the person registered office address shown on page 45. and organisation.
Reed Elsevier NV has entered into arrangements with Check that they are properly authorised by the Financial Stichting Communicatiekanaal Aandeelhouders Shareholder Services Authority before getting involved.
You can check Communication Channel Trustee in the Netherlands, at www.
facilitating the communication with and between shareholders, particularly in connection with general The FSA also maintains on its website a list of meetings of shareholders.
Under these arrangements, unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have holders of Reed Elsevier NV bearer shares whose shares targeted, UK investors and any approach from such are held in the custody of a Dutch bank, and who have organisations should be reported to the FSA so that notified the intermediary authority appointed for these this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate purposes of their interest, will receive written information action can be considered.
If you deal with an unauthorised from the company with a proxy form for their representation firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment at general shareholders meetings.
under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by calling their consumer Information for Reed Elsevier PLC helpline on 0845 606 1234, or emailing and Reed Elsevier NV ADR holders operationarchway@cityoflondon.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ADR Depositary Inform Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address shown on is The Bank of New York.
Reed Elsevier PLCs CUSIP number page 45.
They are not able to investigate such incidents is 758205108 and its trading symbol is RUK.
Each Reed themselves but will record the details and pass them Elsevier PLC ADR represents four Reed Elsevier PLC on to Reed Elsevier PLC and liaise with the FSA.
Reed Elsevier NVs CUSIP number is 758204101 and its trading symbol is ENL.
Each Reed Elsevier More detailed information on this or similar activity can NV ADR represents two Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares.
be found on the FSA website www.
ADR shareholder services Information for Reed Elsevier NV Enquiries concerning Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV ADRs should be addressed to the ADR Depositary at the ordinary shareholders address shown on page 45.
Shareholder enquiries Enquiries from holders of Reed Elsevier NV registered Dividends ordinary shares in relation to share transfers, dividends, Dividend payments on Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier change of address and bank accounts should be directed to NV ADRs are made in US dollars by the ADR Depositary.
the Company Secretary of Reed Elsevier NV, at the registered office address shown on page 45.
Annual Report on Form 20-F The Annual Report on Form 20-F for the Reed Elsevier Dividend payments combined businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Dividends on Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares are paid NV, is filed electronically with the United States Securities in euros.
Registered shareholders in Reed Elsevier NV will and Exchange Commission.
A copy of Form 20-F is available receive dividends from the company by transmission to on the Reed Elsevier website, or from the ADR Depositary the bank account which they have notified to the company.
at the address shown on page 45.
Dividends on shares in bearer form are paid through the intermediary of a bank or broker.
45 Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2006 Contacts Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier 1-3 Strand Radarweg 29 NV ADR Depositary London WC2N 5JR 1043 NX Amsterdam The Bank of New York United Kingdom The Netherlands Investor Relations Tel: 44 0 20 7930 7077 Tel: 31 0 20 485 2222 PO Box 11258 Fax: 44 0 20 7166 5799 Fax: 31 0 20 618 0325 Church Street Station New York Auditors NY10286-1258 Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte Accountants B. V. USA Hill House Orlyplein 50 Tel: 1 888 269 2377 1 Little New Street 1043 DP Amsterdam 1 212 815 3700 outside the US London EC4A 3TR The Netherlands email: shareowners@bankofny.
com Stockbrokers Reed Elsevier PLC Registrar JPMorgan Cazenove Limited ABN AMRO Bank NV Lloyds TSB Registrars 20 Moorgate Gustav Mahlerlaan 10 The Causeway London EC2R 6DA 1082 PP Amsterdam Worthing United Kingdom The Netherlands West Sussex BN99 6DA UBS Investment Bank United Kingdom 1 Finsbury Avenue Tel: 44 0 870 600 3970 UK callers London EC2M 2PP Tel: 44 121 415 7047 non-UK callers United Kingdom www.
co. uk For further investor information visit www.
com Designed and produced by 35 Communications Main photography: Andy Wilson Forward looking statements Board photography: Julian Calder The Reed Elsevier Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements contain Printed in England by Greenaways forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act 1934, This report is printed on Revive 50:50 as amended.
These statements are subject to a number of risks and Silk, a 50% recycled paper uncertainties and actual results and events could differ materially from those manufactured with 25% fide-inked post currently being anticipated as reflected in such forward looking statements.
consumer waste, 25% unprinted preThe terms expect, should be, will be, and similar expressions identify consumer waste and 50% virgin fibre.
Factors which may cause future outcomes to differ All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine from those foreseen in forward looking statements include, but are not limited Free ECF and the manufacturing mill to: general economic conditions and business conditions in Reed Elseviers is accredited with the ISO 14001 markets: exchange rate fluctuations: customers acceptance of its products standard for environmental and services: the actions of competitors: legislative, fiscal and regulatory management.
The mill, merchant and developments: changes in law and legal interpretation affecting Reed Elseviers printer are FSC accredited.
intellectual property rights and internet communications: and the impact of technological change.
The CO emissions produced from the 2 production and distribution of the Annual Review and Financial Statements 2006 have been neutralised through forestry and energy friendly projects around the world.
