59 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 Share based remuneration purchase consideration representing goodwill.
Goodwill The fair value of share based remuneration is determined at arising on acquisitions also includes amounts corresponding the date of grant and recognised as an expense in the to deferred tax liabilities recognised in respect of acquired income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting intangible assets.
period, taking account of the estimated number of shares that are expected to vest.
Market based performance criteria Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for are taken into account when determining the fair value at the impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is date of grant.
Non-market based performance criteria are recognised immediately in the income statement and not taken into account when estimating the number of shares subsequently reversed.
The fair value of share based remuneration is determined by use of a binomial or Monte Carlo simulation On disposal of a subsidiary or business, the attributable model as appropriate.
All Reed Elseviers share based amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the remuneration is equity settled.
profit or loss on disposal.
Borrowing costs Intangible assets All borrowing costs are expensed as incurred unless hedge Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination accounting applies see Financial Instruments.
are stated in the balance sheet at their fair value as at the date of acquisition, less accumulated amortisation.
Internally Taxation generated intangible assets are stated in the balance sheet The tax expense represents the sum of the tax payable on at the directly attributable cost of creation of the asset, less the current year taxable profits, adjustments in respect of accumulated amortisation.
prior year taxable profits, and the movements on deferred tax that are recognised in the income statement.
Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations comprise: market related assets e. g. trade marks, imprints, The tax payable on current year taxable profits is calculated brands : customer related assets e. g. subscription bases, using the applicable tax rates that have been enacted, customer lists, customer relationships : editorial content: or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
software and systems e. g. application infrastructure, product delivery platforms, in-process research and Deferred tax is the tax arising on differences between the development : contract based assets e. g. publishing rights, carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial exhibition rights, supply contracts : and other intangible statements and their corresponding tax bases used in the assets.
Internally generated intangible assets typically computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the comprise software and systems development where an balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are identifiable asset is created that is probable to generate generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences future economic benefits.
and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that, based on current forecasts, it is probable that taxable profits Intangible assets, other than brands and imprints will be available against which deductible temporary determined to have indefinite lives, are amortised differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is not recognised on systematically over their estimated useful lives.
The temporary differences arising in respect of goodwill that is estimated useful lives of intangible assets with finite lives not deductible for tax purposes.
are as follows: market and customer related assets 3 to 40 years: content, software and other acquired intangible Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected assets 3 to 20 years: and internally developed intangible to apply in the period when the liability is expected to be assets 3 to 10 years.
Brands and imprints determined to settled or the asset realised.
Full provision is made for have indefinite lives are not amortised and are subject to deferred tax which would become payable on the distribution impairment review at least annually.
of retained profits from foreign subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated in the balance Movements in deferred tax are charged or credited in the sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation.
No depreciation income statement, except when they relate to items is provided on freehold land.
Freehold buildings and long charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the leases are depreciated over their estimated useful lives up deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
Deferred tax to a maximum of 50 years.
Short leases are written off over credits in respect of share based remuneration are the duration of the lease.
Depreciation is provided on other recognised in equity to the extent that expected tax assets on a straight line basis over their estimated useful deductions exceed the related expense.
lives as follows: leasehold improvements shorter of life of lease and 10 years: plant 3 to 20 years: office furniture, Goodwill fixtures and fittings 5 to 10 years: computer systems, On the acquisition of a subsidiary or business, the purchase communication networks and equipment 3 to 7 years.
consideration is allocated between the net tangible and intangible assets on a fair value basis, with any excess 60 Combined financial statements Accounting policies Investments property, plant and equipment and the corresponding liability Investments, other than investments in joint ventures and to pay rentals is shown net of interest in the balance sheet as associates, are stated in the balance sheet at fair value.
The capitalised value of the Investments held as part of the venture capital portfolio assets is depreciated on a straight line basis over the shorter are classified as held for trading, with changes in fair of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the assets value reported through the income statement.
The interest element of the lease payments is investments are classified as available for sale with allocated so as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge.
changes in fair value recognised directly in equity until the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised on a straight line basis over the period of the leases.
Rental in equity is brought into the net profit or loss for the period.
income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line All items recognised in the income statement relating to basis over the term of the relevant lease.
investments, other than investments in joint ventures and associates, are reported as non operating items.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, Available for sale investments and venture capital call deposits and other short term highly liquid investments investments held for trading represent investments in listed and are held in the balance sheet at fair value.
The fair value of listed securities is determined based on quoted market prices, and of unlisted Assets held for sale securities on managements estimate of fair value based on Assets of businesses that are held for sale, rather than for standard valuation techniques.
continuing use by Reed Elsevier, are classified as assets held for sale.
Such assets are carried at the lower of amortised Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted cost and fair value less costs to sell.
Similarly, liabilities of for under the equity method and stated in the balance sheet businesses held for sale are also separately classified on the at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in Reed balance sheet.
Elseviers share of net assets, less any impairment in value.
Financial instruments Impairment Financial instruments comprise investments other than At each balance sheet date, reviews are carried out of the investments in joint ventures or associates, trade carrying amounts of tangible and intangible assets and receivables, cash and cash equivalents, payables and goodwill to determine whether there is any indication that accruals, provisions, borrowings and derivative financial those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the Investments other than investments in joint ventures and impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash associates are classified as either held for trading or flows that are independent from other assets, estimates are available for sale, as described above.
made based on the cash flows of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Intangible assets with an indefinite Trade receivables are carried in the balance sheet at invoiced useful life are tested for impairment at least annually value less allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
and whenever there is any indication that the asset may Irrecoverable amounts are estimated based on the ageing of be impaired.
trade receivables, experience and circumstance.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit Borrowings other than fixed rate borrowings in designated is estimated to be less than its net carrying amount, the net hedging relationships and for which the carrying value is carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is adjusted to reflect changes in the fair value of the hedged reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses risk, payables, accruals and provisions are recorded at are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Inventories and pre-publication costs Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge interest Inventories and pre-publication costs are stated at the rate and foreign exchange risks.
Changes in the fair value of lower of cost, including appropriate attributable overhead, derivative financial instruments that are designated and and estimated net realisable value.
Pre-publication costs, effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised net representing costs incurred in the origination of content of tax directly in equity in the hedge reserve.
If a hedged firm prior to publication, are expensed systematically reflecting commitment or forecasted transaction results in the the expected sales profile over the estimated economic recognition of a non financial asset or liability, then, at the lives of the related products, generally up to five years.
time that the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been Leases recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement Assets held under leases which confer rights and obligations of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the similar to those attaching to owned assets are classified recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in as assets held under finance leases and capitalised within equity are recognised in the income statement in the same 61 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
assets are reviewed at least twice a year, the key areas of Any ineffective portion of hedges is recognised immediately judgment being in relation to the forecast long term growth in the income statement.
rates and the appropriate discount rates to be applied to forecast cash flows.
The charge for share based remuneration Derivative financial instruments that are not designated as is determined based on the fair value of awards at the date of hedging instruments are classified as held for trading and grant by use of binomial or Monte Carlo simulation models as recorded in the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in appropriate, which require judgments to be made regarding fair value recognised in the income statement.
share price volatility, dividend yield, risk free rates of return and expected option lives.
Key estimates in accounting for defined Where an effective hedge is in place against changes in the benefit pension schemes are determined in conjunction with fair value of fixed rate borrowings, the hedged borrowings independent actuaries and include the life expectancy of are adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk members, expected salary and pension increases, inflation, the being hedged with a corresponding income or expense return on scheme assets and the rate at which future pension included in the income statement.
The offsetting gains or payments are discounted.
Reed Elseviers policy is to make losses from remeasuring the fair value of the related provision for tax uncertainties where it is considered probable derivatives are also recognised in the income statement.
that tax payments may arise.
The fair values of interest rate swaps, interest rate options, Standards, amendments and interpretations forward rate agreements and forward foreign exchange not yet effective contracts represent the replacement costs calculated using New accounting standards and amendments and their market rates of interest and exchange.
The fair value of long expected impact on the future accounting policies and term borrowings is calculated by discounting expected future reporting of Reed Elsevier are set out below.
cash flows at market rates.
IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective for Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
IFRS7 instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no requires discussion of the significance of financial longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any instruments for an entitys financial position and cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument performance and introduces new qualitative and quantitative recognised in equity is either retained in equity until the firm disclosures about exposure to risks arising from their use.
commitment or forecasted transaction occurs, or, where a Adoption of this standard is not expected to change hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, is significantly the disclosures related to financial instruments.
immediately credited or expensed in the income statement.
Amendment to IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements On adoption of IAS39 Financial Instruments, adjustments Capital Disclosures effective for financial years beginning on were made either to the carrying value of hedged items or after 1 January 2007.
The amendment introduces or to equity, as appropriate, to reflect the differences disclosures about an entitys capital and how it manages between the previous UK GAAP carrying values of financial capital.
Adoption of this amendment is not expected to instruments and their carrying values required to be change significantly the presentation of the combined reported under IAS39.
Any transition gains or losses on financial statements.
financial instruments that qualified for hedge accounting were reflected in equity and remain in equity until either IFRS8 Operating Segments effective for financial years the forecasted transaction occurs or is no longer expected beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
requirements for disclosure of information about an entitys operating segments, its products and services, the Shares held in treasury geographical areas in which it operates, and its major Shares of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV that are customers.
repurchased by the respective parent companies and not Adoption of this standard is not expected to change cancelled are classified as shares held in treasury.
The significantly the disclosure of information in respect of Reed consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is Elseviers operating segments.
recognised as a deduction from equity.
Shares of the parent companies that are purchased by the Reed Elsevier Group plc Additionally, a number of interpretations have been issued Employee Benefit Trust are also classified as shares held in which are not expected to have any significant impact on treasury, with the cost recognised as a deduction from equity.
Reed Elseviers accounting policies and reporting.
Critical judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty The most significant accounting policies in determining the financial condition and results of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, and those requiring the most subjective or complex judgment, relate to the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, share based remuneration, pensions and taxation.
The carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible 62 Combined financial statements Notes to the combined financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 1 Segment analysis Reed Elsevier is a publisher and information provider organised as four business segments: Elsevier, comprising scientific, technical and medical publishing businesses: LexisNexis, providing legal, tax, regulatory, risk management, information analytics and business information solutions to professional, business and government customers: Harcourt Education, publishing school textbooks and related instructional and assessment materials: and Reed Business, providing information and marketing solutions to business professionals.
Internal reporting is consistent with this organisational structure.
Adjusted operating profit figures are presented as an additional performance measure.
They are stated before the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition integration costs and the equity share of taxes in joint ventures.
Adjusted operating profit is reconciled to operating profit in note 9.
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures of 18m 2005: 16m included in operating profit comprises 3m 2005: 3m relating to LexisNexis and 15m 2005: 13m relating to Reed Business.
The unallocated net pension credit of 34m 2005: 12m comprises the expected return on pension scheme assets of 178m 2005: 149m less interest on pension scheme liabilities of 144m 2005: 137m.
2006 2005 Analysis of revenue by geographical market m m North America 3,082 2,974 United Kingdom 592 568 The Netherlands 202 202 Rest of Europe 880 804 Rest of world 642 618 Total 5,398 5,166
