148 Additional information for US Investors Reed Elsevier combined businesses Summary of the principal differences to US GAAP The combined financial statements are prepared in Disposals accordance with IFRS, which differs in certain significant As explained above, the carrying value of goodwill and respects from US GAAP.
The principal differences that affect intangible assets under US GAAP in relation to certain net income and combined shareholders funds are explained business combinations is higher than the equivalent figure below and their approximate effect is shown on page 150. under IFRS.
On disposal of a business, to the extent the The Reed Elsevier Annual Report 2006 on Form 20-F carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets related to provides further information for US investors.
the disposal are higher under US GAAP, a lower gain higher loss will be reported under US GAAP.
Goodwill and intangible assets Under IFRS, acquired goodwill and intangible assets with Pensions indefinite lives are not amortised and are subject to at least Under IFRS, the expense of defined benefit pension schemes annual impairment review.
Other intangible assets with and other post-retirement benefit schemes is charged to the definite lives are amortised over their estimated useful income statement as an operating expense over the periods economic lives up to 40 years.
Previously, under UK GAAP, benefiting from the employees' services.
The charge is based acquired goodwill and intangible assets had been amortised on actuarial assumptions reflecting market conditions at the systematically over their estimated useful lives up to a beginning of the financial year.
Variations from this expected maximum of 40 years, subject to impairment review.
There cost are recognised in full in the statement of recognised was no retrospective restatement of the acquired goodwill income and expense in the period in which they occur.
Net and intangible asset values as at the date of transition to pension obligations in respect of defined benefit schemes are IFRS 1 January 2004. included in the balance sheet at the present value of scheme liabilities, less the fair value of scheme assets.
Where assets Under US GAAP, acquired goodwill and intangible assets exceed liabilities, any net pension asset is limited to the are accounted for in accordance with SFAS141 Business extent that the asset is recoverable through reductions Combinations and SFAS142 Goodwill and Other Intangible in future contributions.
In accordance with these SFASs, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortised and Under US GAAP, pension costs and liabilities are accounted are subject to at least annual impairment review, with effect for in accordance with SFAS87: Employers' Accounting for from 1 January 2002, except in respect of 2001 acquisitions Pensions as amended by SFAS158: Employers Accounting made after 1 July 2001, for which the effective date under for Defined Benefit Pensions and Other Post retirement the transitional provisions was 1 July 2001.
The determination of the net pension cost is similar to assets with definite lives are amortised over their estimated IFRS, however variations from expected cost, which are useful economic lives up to 40 years, subject to annual determined by reference to market related values of plan impairment review under SFAS144: Accounting for the assets, are amortised over the expected remaining service Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.
In 2005, prior to the amendments by SFAS158, SFAS87 also required a minimum pension liability Under IFRS, any deferred tax liability arising on acquired to be recognised that was at least equal to the unfunded intangible assets in acquisitions made after the transition benefit obligation ignoring projected future salary increases.
date of 1 January 2004, results in a corresponding grossing Changes in the additional minimum pension liability were up of acquired goodwill.
For acquisitions made prior to the recognised within other comprehensive income, a component transition date, any such deferred tax liabilities were written of shareholders equity.
From the 2006 financial year SFAS87, off directly to equity on transition to IFRS.
Under US GAAP, as amended by SFAS158, requires that the full funded status goodwill has historically been grossed up for deferred tax of defined benefit pension schemes is recognised as an asset liabilities on acquired intangible assets.
This, along with the or liability in the balance sheet, with changes in that funded historically lower goodwill amortisation charge under US status recognised in other comprehensive income in the year GAAP compared to previous UK GAAP, results in a higher in which they occur.
The effect on the balance sheet of carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets under US applying SFAS158 for the first time in 2006 is to increase net GAAP.
Deferred tax assets are correspondingly increased by 70m.
Under US GAAP, as at 31 December 2006, the carrying value of goodwill is 4,006m 2005: 4,470m, the gross cost Derivative financial instruments of intangible assets is 4,262m 2005: 4,613m and the Under both IFRS IAS39 Financial Instruments and US accumulated amortisation of intangible assets is 1,980m GAAP SFAS133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and 2005: 1,873m.
Hedging Activities, all derivative financial instruments are required to be carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Changes in fair value are accounted for through the income statement or equity, depending on the derivative's designation and effectiveness as a hedging instrument.
149 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 Derivative instruments used by Reed Elsevier as fair value A further difference arises on the recognition of deferred tax hedges are designated as qualifying hedge instruments assets for share based remuneration, which, under IFRS, is under IAS39 and SFAS133.
The fixed rate loans which calculated based on the intrinsic value of outstanding awards are swapped to floating rate and subject to this hedging and which, under US GAAP, is determined based on the treatment are set out on pages 82 and 83.
Amounts only cumulative charge to net income.
As a result of this impact net income, under both IFRS and US GAAP, in relation difference net income under US GAAP is 3m lower than to these instruments to the extent that the hedges are not reported under IFRS 2005: 24m lower, and combined fully effective.
shareholders equity is 19m higher than reported under IFRS 2005: 25m higher.
In addition, certain forward exchange rate contracts and interest rate swaps have been designated as qualifying cash Current taxation flow hedge instruments under IAS39 and SFAS133.
Under IFRS, changes in estimates and final settlements Accordingly, to the extent that the hedges are effective, markof income tax uncertainties that result from a business to-market movements are recorded in either equity IFRS or combination are recognised in net income.
These changes other comprehensive income US GAAP.
Other derivative under US GAAP, with the exception of uncertainties related instruments, which act as cashflow hedges, have not been to valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, are designated as qualifying hedge instruments under either recognised as an adjustment to acquired goodwill.
In 2006 a IAS39 or SFAS133 and, accordingly, changes in the fair value 54m adjustment was made to goodwill under US GAAP of those derivative instruments are recorded in net income relating to the favourable settlement of tax on prior year under both IFRS and US GAAP.
disposals, that under IFRS was recognised in net income.
IAS39 was effective from 1 January 2005 resulting in a Adjusted earnings cumulative transition adjustment of 29m loss to other In the combined financial statements adjusted profit and combined reserves and a 40m gain recognised in the hedge cash flow measures are presented, as permitted by IFRS, reserve, which included a 10m loss relating to instruments as additional performance measures.
US GAAP does not that were treated as hedges under previously applied UK permit the presentation of alternative earnings measures.
GAAP, but which are not designated as hedges under IAS39.
These losses are unwound over the period to which they Short term obligations expected to be refinanced relate and consequently give rise to a short term difference Under US GAAP, where it is expected to refinance short term between net income reported under IFRS and US GAAP.
obligations on a long term basis and this is supported by an ability to consummate the refinancing, such short term Deferred taxation obligations should be excluded from current liabilities Under IFRS, deferred taxation is provided for nearly all and shown as long term obligations.
Under IFRS, such differences between the balance sheet amounts of assets obligations can only be excluded from current liabilities and liabilities and their tax bases.
Deferred tax liabilities are where, additionally, the debt and facility are under a single generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences agreement or course of dealing with the same lender or and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it group of lenders.
Short term obligations at 31 December is probable that taxable profits will be available against which 2006 of 915m 2005: 889m would be excluded from deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
current liabilities under US GAAP and shown as long term obligations.
Under US GAAP, deferred taxation is provided on all temporary differences under the liability method subject to a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets where applicable, in accordance with SFAS109 Accounting for Income Taxes.
The most significant deferred tax differences between IFRS and US GAAP arise from the different carrying values in respect of pensions, goodwill and acquired intangible assets as described above.
The tax effect of these and other GAAP differences in carrying values is that net income under US GAAP is 23m higher than reported under IFRS 2005: 27m higher, and combined shareholders equity is 28m lower than reported under IFRS 2005: 144m lower.
150 Additional information for US Investors Reed Elsevier combined businesses Effects on net income of material differences between IFRS and US GAAP 2006 2005 For the year ended 31 December m m Net income as reported under IFRS 623 462 US GAAP adjustments: Intangible assets 1 5 Disposals 41 Pensions 156 78 Derivative financial instruments 3 5 Current taxation 54 Deferred taxation 20 3 Other 3 13 Net income under US GAAP 399 374 Effects on combined shareholders equity of material differences between IFRS and US GAAP 2006 2005 As at 31 December m m Combined shareholders equity as reported under IFRS 1,966 1,970 US GAAP adjustments: Goodwill and intangible assets 1,256 1,491 Pensions 409 Derivative financial instruments 5 Deferred taxation 9 119 Other 7 7 Combined shareholders equity under US GAAP 3,220 3,763
