Regus Report & Accounts 2006 75 Corporate directory Secretary and Registered Office Tim Regan, Company Secretary Regus Group plc 3000 Hillswood Drive Hillswood Business Park Chertsey Surrey KT16 0RS Registered Number 4868977 Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Auditor KPMG Audit Plc 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB Legal advisers to the Company as to English law Slaughter and May One Bunhill Row London EC1Y 8YY Legal advisers to the Company as to US law Davis Polk & Wardwell 99 Gresham Street London EC2V 7NG Corporate Stockbrokers Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein 20 Fenchurch Street London EC3P 3DB Credit Suisse First Boston One Cabot Square London E14 4QJ Reservations UK telephone: 0870 880 8484 US telephone: 1.877.
com Regus Report & Accounts 2006 76 Glossary Available workstations The total number of workstations in the Group also termed Inventory.
During the year, this is expressed as a weighted average.
At period ends the absolute number is used.
Centre contribution Gross profit comprising centre revenues less direct operating expenses but before administrative expenses.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Enquiries Client enquiries about Regus products or services.
Expansions A general term which includes new business centres established by Regus and acquired centres in the year.
Forward order book The future workstation revenue already contracted with clients at a point in time.
Like for like The financial performance from centres owned and operated for a full 12 months prior to the start of the financial year which therefore have a full year comparative.
Mature business Operations owned for a full 12 month period prior to the start of the financial year which therefore have a full year comparative.
Occupancy Occupied workstations divided by available workstation expressed as a percentage.
Occupied workstations Workstations which are in use by clients.
This is expressed as a weighted average for the year.
Organic growth Growth attributable to the mature portfolio and from new business centres established by Regus.
REVPAW Total revenue per available workstations revenue available workstations.
REVPOW Total revenue per occupied workstation.
WIPOW Workstation income per occupied workstation.
The Regus Group Brands Printed by CTD, an ISO 14001 registered company, on Revive 50:50 Silk supplied by Robert Horne Paper Co. An FSC certified product which contains 50% Recycled Fibre.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
co. uk Regus Group plc 3000 Hillswood Drive Hillswood Business Park Chertsey Surrey KT16 0RS United Kingdom www.
