Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 15 NOTICE OF MEETING 15 NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 33rd annual general Notes: meeting of the Company will be held at New Mills, WottonThe Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the under-Edge, Gloucestershire, GL12 8JR on Friday 13th Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that October 2006 at noon to transact the following business:- only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6 pm on 11th October 1.
To receive and adopt the reports of the directors and 2006 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid auditors and the financial statements for the year ended annual general meeting in respect of the number of shares 30th June 2006. registered in their name at that time.
on the relevant register of securities after 6 pm on 11th October 2006 shall be disregarded in determining the 3.
To re-elect as a director of the Company B R Taylor, rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
who is retiring by rotation.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint 4.
To re-elect as a director of the Company J P McGeehan, a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead who is retiring by rotation.
A proxy need not be a member of the 5.
To approve the Directors remuneration report contained Company and the appointment of a proxy will not preclude a in the Annual report 2006. member from attending and voting at the meeting.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the A form of proxy is enclosed for this purpose.
Company and to authorise the directors to determine The register of directors shareholdings, copies of the their remuneration.
executive directors service contracts and the letters of 7.
To consider as special business and, if thought fit, to appointment of non-executive directors will be available pass the following resolution, which will be proposed as for inspection at the registered office of the Company a special resolution:- during normal business hours until the date of the meeting and at the place of the meeting for 15 minutes prior to, THAT the Company be and is hereby unconditionally and during, the meeting.
authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 20p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 7,278,854: ii the maximum price that may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 10 business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased: iii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 20p: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the annual general meeting to be held in 2007 and 31st December 2007 unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and v the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which contract will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to such contract.
By order of the Board New Mills A C G Roberts FCA Wotton-under-Edge Secretary Gloucestershire 26th July 2006 GL12 8JR
