Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 60 60 FINANCIAL CALENDAR Annual general meeting Announcement of results 13th October 2006 Annual results July Half year results January Dividends The interim results and the preliminary announcement of the full years results are Final dividend published on our website, which is at Payment date 16th October 2006 www.
com, no later than ten minutes Record date 15th September 2006 after they have been released at the Financial Ex-div date 13th September 2006 Services Authority.
The 2000 figures have been restated to reflect the impact of the adoption of FRS 17 - Retirement benefits.
Figures for 1997 to 1999 have not been restated.
For the year 2005 and onwards, the financial statements have been prepared under adopted IFRS.
Financial statements for the years prior to 2005 were prepared under UK GAAP and have not been adjusted to adopted IFRS.
Renishaw Plc Group Profile 2006 Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 62 62 Group Profile 4 8 06 10:05 Page 3 Enabling repeated perfection Group Profile 4 8 06 10:05 Page 4 04 Renishaw fundamentally believes th a and innovative products and proce s and the ability to provide local cust o around the globe.
05 Our history 06 CMM products 10 Machine tool products 14 Styli and custom products 16 Laser and calibration products 18 Encoder systems 20 Dental products 22 Spectroscopy products 24 Group engineering 28 Manufacturing 32 World-wide support, marketing and Wotton Travel Ltd 34 The Renishaw mission and corporate environmental policy A Renishaw products application insert can be found at the back of the document Group Profile 4 8 06 10:05 Page 5 OUR HISTORY 05 For over 30 years, Renishaw has been an innovator In relatively new market sectors for the company, in metrology, the science of measurement, enabling Renishaws expertise in precision manufacturing has measurements to be taken to international standards.
already influenced the dental market and the way Renishaw was established in 1973, based on an innovative restorations are carried out.
The company continues product, the first touch-trigger probe which went on to to work with the bio-medical profession in the analysis revolutionise post-process inspection of machined of organic and inorganic substances and how the components.
Today, Renishaw is leading another analysis itself is undertaken.
Each of the Groups Products Divisions has provided TM The first product to take advantage of Renscan5 a mission statement to reinforce its contribution TM technology is REVO, the first in a family of measuring to the Groups overall operations.
head and probe systems, which has redefined the industry standard for scanning systems on co-ordinate measuring machines CMMs.
Inspection throughput is maximised whilst a high level of system accuracy is maintained.
h at success comes from patented e sses, high quality manufacturing, t omer support in all its markets FROM LEFT: John Deer, Deputy Chairman and Sir David McMurtry, Chairman and Chief Executive.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:06 Page 6 06 CMM PRODUCTS CMM technology has evolved to meet the increasingly tight However, it has been the introduction of the breakthrough tolerances demanded by today's manufacturers which, Renscan5 5-axis scanning technology that represents combined with the perpetual drive for increased inspection the biggest step-change in measurement performance efficiency and throughput, are the pressures faced by the since the original touch-trigger probe.
Renishaw aims to provide the most effective and highest quality metrology systems, which enable customers worldwide to carry out fast, precise reference dimensional measurements.
For more than 30 years, Renishaw has continuously The revolutionary REVO and GYRO heads achieve developed its range of probing systems for post-process measuring speeds up to 500 mm second and virtually inspection and quality control, often setting the international eliminate most of the measurement errors normally benchmark in metrology.
The TP20 probe, successor to the associated with existing 3-axis scanning systems.
well-known TP2 touch trigger probe, was developed to These are the first in a family of high-performance enable stylus configuration to be changed manually or measuring systems that will set new standards for automatically without re-qualification.
heads, such as PH10M, introduced repeatable angular indexing, increasing measurement automation and flexibility.
More recently, industry has required additional information about the form of precision parts, so Renishaw has introduced scanning products such as the ultra-accurate SP80 probe and more recently the SP25M, the worlds most compact and versatile scanning probe system, providing unmatched flexibility.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:06 Page 7 07 TM BOTTOM LEFT: GYRO, the latest servo scanning head probing system inspecting an aero engine part, shown with the new UCC2 universal CMM controller that forms the foundation for Renishaws high-speed scanning systems.
BOTTOM RIGHT: SP25M scanning probe inspecting a complex component from an aircraft ejection seat.
TM MAIN: REVO, the first in a family of revolutionary measuring head and probe systems, shown here providing rapid inspection of a high-performance engine.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:06 Page 8 08 CMM PRODUCTS: continued Meltham Mills Engineering A new approach to quality control has reaped significant benefits for Meltham Mills Engineering MME, gear supplier to leading names such as Bosch Rexroth and Case New Holland.
It now takes just 8 minutes to inspect every critical feature on a typical component, compared to 4 hours previously 30 times faster.
Simultaneously, data is gathered automatically on the form of features.
All these benefits have been achieved by using Renishaws SP25M scanning probe fitted to a new Mitutoyo Crysta CMM, which allows continuous measurement data to be captured along 3D profiles.
Meltham Mills is delighted with the new combination, This system is taking measurements we couldnt even dream of before.
We used to subcontract out the inspection of any difficult component, which cost a fortune and added days, if not weeks, to the overall production time.
Our manual CMMs and shadow-graphs were capable of less complicated measurements but still took hours compared to the minutes taken now.
In gear production, achieving the correct profile ensures that the teeth will mesh correctly, resulting in smoother running and less wear.
The SP25M scanning probe has given MME significant benefits allowing the company for the first time to rapidly measure the form of the teeth profiles and feedback any variation to control the manufacturing process.
MME has realised that new technology and thinking must be used to remain competitive, but used cost-effectively.
TOP LEFT AND MAIN: Renishaws SP25M probe measuring the profile of critical features of a component.
Measured data is compared directly with the original CAD data.
BOTTOM LEFT: Typical gear components ready for despatch.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:06 Page 9 09 Group Profile 4 8 06 10:06 Page 10 10 Group Profile 4 8 06 10:06 Page 11 MACHINE TOOL PRODUCTS 11 Renishaws core values of quality and innovation continue to push forward the boundaries of on-machine process control, inspection and verification.
The customer base includes machine tool original equipment manufacturers, importers and distributors, together with direct sales to end-users.
Customers are distributed throughout the world, with particularly strong representation in Europe, Japan and America, and high rates of growth in China and other Far East markets.
Renishaw employs the industrys largest dedicated team of design, application and marketing engineers to provide comprehensive support for its products across all of these sectors and regions.
The four core categories comprise spindle inspection probe systems, tool setting or table probe systems, lathe tool setting arm systems and non-contact tool setting systems.
Software to programme and control these products is also provided, ranging from simple routines for work piece set up that run directly on CNC controls, to more advanced PC-based suites of software which enable integrated process control, inspection and on-machine verification.
Renishaw aims to provide industry-leading precision measuring systems and software to enable users of CNC machine tools to implement tightly controlled manufacturing processes.
Renishaw is committed to maintaining its position as the worlds leading supplier of innovative metrology systems to the CNC machine tool industry.
This commitment ensures that substantial resources are dedicated to developing new products and processes that improve manufacturing capability and enable significant cost savings.
MAIN: Renishaws RMP60 probe the worlds first radio probe with frequency hopping spread spectrum transmission.
TOP RIGHT: NC4, non-contact tool setting and tool breakage detection system.
BOTTOM LEFT: TRS1, single-sided laser system for high-speed, broken tool identification.
TM BOTTOM RIGHT: Productivity Active Editor Pro allows the development of powerful probing routines via a CAD interface.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:06 Page 12 12 MACHINE TOOL PRODUCTS: continued Dunlop Aerospace Braking Systems Dunlop Aerospace Braking Systems, a part of Meggitt plc, is a global organisation that designs, develops and manufactures wheels and brakes for commercial and military aircraft applications.
Aircraft production in the UK has experienced steady growth and to meet this demand the hub and flange cell at Dunlop Aerospace purchased 3 key CNC machines between 1998 and 2000, at that time actively specifying Renishaw probe systems.
This has increased process consistency and has had a marked effect on the manufacturing time.
Dramatic reductions The team leader of the hub and flange cell speaks positively about the decision to employ Renishaw probing systems, Weve seen a dramatic reduction in machining cycle times and the overall set times every time weve introduced a component to the cell.
This is critical to our New Product Introduction process NPI which we use every time we introduce a new wheel, essentially allowing us to design for manufacture.
Regulars, repeaters and one-offs Orders for wheels fall into three different categories according to the number of batches made each year.
The regular orders are classed as those wheels produced in more than 10 batches a year: repeaters are less than 10 batches a year.
Dunlop Aerospace also supply one-off orders and recently succeeded in a very impressive project to re-manufacture components for the 1950s Canberra.
This involved taking original drawings and re-programming machining through the modern CNC process.
Probe systems make all the difference The underlying technique made possible by the integration of the probe systems is the ability to identify the component position and material condition, updating and monitoring the deviation in the wheel forgings.
This massively reduces cutting time, as it eliminates fresh-air cuts this is because the probe ensures that the critical surfaces of forgings are accurately located and metal cutting starts immediately.
The nature of the aviation industry demands ever-increasing accuracy and quality, ensuring wheels and brakes can be reliable in all conditions and scenarios.
The team leader sums up the changes to the process neatly We have now used probing systems for over six years and have cut costs and times dramatically, with a step-change in process control and consistency.
LEFT: Spindle-mounted probe setting the machine coordinate system relative to existing machined features, ensuring machining starts in the right place every time.
MAIN: Wheels for the Gulfstream G500 G650 series of long distance executive jets.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:06 Page 13 13 Group Profile 4 8 06 10:06 Page 14 14 Group Profile 4 8 06 15:14 Page 15 STYLI AND CUSTOM PRODUCTS 15 The obvious link between the two product ranges styli In addition, the design and engineering teams work on and custom products is a custom stylus.
Renishaw deals projects aimed at further improving the design and quality with many hundreds of requests for product customised to of Renishaws extensive standard range of styli undertake a certain measurement task or to fit a specific and accessories.
In response to a request, the applications team Over the coming year, Renishaw will focus on initiatives to clearly defines the customers requirement and proposes a provide an even better response to requests for special styli cost-effective solution.
Once reviewed and accepted, the by serving needs in key markets locally.
Resource will be product is then commissioned and the detailed design invested into further automation of our manufacturing undertaken in close liaison with the engineering and processes to ensure that quality and costs are optimised to manufacturing teams.
Manufacturing and assembly is to maintain Renishaws position as market leader.
This process is followed will also continue into new materials and construction to deliver all custom products from the simplest stylus to methods for optimising the performance of styli used in much more complex products.
contact scanning applications ensuring that Renishaw continues to lead the measurement revolution.
Renishaw aims to be a market leader through excellence in the design, manufacture and worldwide supply of styli and accessories for industrial metrology probing.
Renishaw also aims to support the ever growing need to provide customised variants of its standard products, tailored to suit the customers exact requirements.
MAIN: A novel method patent pending of calibrating a mill-turn machine utilising Renishaws OMP40 probe and a high-precision sapphire ball mounted in a chuck.
BOTTOM RIGHT: Long reach styli fitted to SP80 high accuracy probe for post process inspection on a CMM.
Group Profile P16 17 NEW 4 8 06 10:10 Page 2 16 LASER AND CALIBRATION PRODUCTS The demands on modern industry to meet ever tighter tolerances, and the requirements of international quality standards, mean that the performance of manufacturing machinery has never been more important.
To meet this demand, Renishaw produces measurement systems accepted worldwide as the industry standard to assess, monitor and improve machine performance.
Machine productivity is increased, downtime reduced and scrap minimised.
These systems combine the best available mechanical, electronic and optical technologies and have been designed for easy use, flexibility and portability.
Systems normally reserved for research laboratories and standards rooms can now be used directly on the shop floor.
Renishaw aims to be the worlds premier supplier of high quality, high performance laser interferometer and ballbar systems for machine tool and motion system performance evaluation.
Zeeko Following a detailed calibration with the Renishaw ML10 Renishaw calibration systems are ensuring nanometre laser the machines dynamic positioning performance is accuracies of NASA optics by allowing Zeeko, a supplier of bench-marked with the Renishaw QC10 ballbar, a rapid test unique CNC virtual pivot polishing machines, to control the taking just a few minutes.
This fingerprint of the machine positioning accuracy.
Zeeko currently supplies the only CNC as the engineer describes it when commissioned is polishing machines in the world that are capable of polishing compared to regular QC10 ballbar tests over the machines large departure free-form optics to tolerances in the 50-100 life, to track 21 potential sources of geometric error.
nanometre range, for a wide variety of applications.
Zeeko engineers carry QC10 ballbars with them on all service A Zeeko engineer comments, The biggest benefit of calls around the world.
The test indicates where any attention using the Renishaw ballbar and laser is that the machine is needed and after any work has been done the report from accuracy can be quoted exactly its a definitive value, the QC10 ballbar software is used for final sign-off.
we dont supply vague fitness for purpose statements.
Optics for leading edge innovations Suppliers to NASA are using Zeeko machines to manufacture a segmented 7.8 m diameter main mirror on the James Webb Space Telescope JWST, which may well reveal information on black holes that give clues to our very existence.
Zeeko technology is also a key element of the proposed Euro50 telescope project, which is predicted to achieve key science goals such as detecting, for the first time, galaxies at the era of their formation, earth-like planets around other stars, and inevitably the unexpected.
The primary mirror will be 50 m in diameter, made up of a series of 2 m hexagonal segments, each a free-form shape hence Zeekos involvement.
The Euro50 telescope will be 25 times larger in area and with a resolution 200 times better than any other telescope, through the use of adaptive optics.
To put that in context the collecting area will be equivalent to all other existing telescopes of this type added together.
Group Profile P16 17 NEW 4 8 06 15:11 Page 3 17 TM TOP LEFT: QuickView is an intuitive and easy-to-use software package that gives a real-time, graphical view of Renishaws ML10 laser measurement data.
BOTTOM LEFT: The polishing process involves positioning an inflated membrane tool around a central virtual pivot point.
TOP RIGHT: ML10 Gold Standard the worlds most accurate and flexible laser calibration system being used to calibrate a CNC lathe.
BOTTOM RIGHT: The Renishaw QC10 ballbar is used by Zeeko to run dynamic tests on 2 axes at a time, in this case the Y and Z axes, to measure any deviations from a perfect circle and diagnose the causes of any errors.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:06 Page 18 18 Group Profile 4 8 06 10:06 Page 19 ENCODER SYSTEMS 19 Renishaws encoder products deliver precision motion control where reliable precision feedback is required.
The compact linear and rotary measurement systems are used in a wide range of industrial automation applications as diverse as semiconductor and flat panel screen manufacture, electronics, medical, scanning, printing, photography, scientific research, specialist machine tools and precision metrology.
These encoder systems are based on an innovative non-contact optical design which gives excellent mechanical and metrology characteristics, whilst performing with excellent reliability in the face of contamination from dust, oil and scratches.
Easy installation and set-up features are built in to all products eliminating the need for additional equipment.
Local product stocks and expert advice in over 30 countries support customers engineering and production operations.
A continuing commitment to providing the highest quality products available has led to the development of innovative production processes and product designs, as well as a six-sigma quality improvement programme.
Laser interferometers and compensators for high resolution, high accuracy position feedback at nanometre and sub-nanometre levels are used on precision machine tools in aerospace, semiconductor and electronics industries.
They feature fibre optic laser beam delivery for easy integration on smaller machines.
Renishaw will apply cutting-edge science and technology to create and manufacture practical, innovative solutions for industrial measurement and motion applications.
Through a combination of improved mechanical rigidity and Vistec Lithography In designing its new VB300 e-beam lithography tool, integration of Renishaws RLE20 differential interferometerVistec Lithography, formerly Leica Microsystems, based encoder system, noise-induced positional errors are now expected to be less than 3 nm.
The VB300 gives the identified that a reduction of noise-induced positional errors would significantly improve tool performance.
ability to load and expose piece parts as small as 5 mm Since the introduction of the VB6 series in 1993 and later through to 300 mm wafers, with corresponding mask developments, applications for the tool have included plate substrate sizes.
nanotechnology, micromechanics, micro optics, NGL maskmaking, si-direct write and telecommunications.
MAIN: Renishaws RLE20 differential interferometer measures the position between two mirrors inside the Vistec Lithographys VB300 vacuum chamber.
TOP RIGHT: Vistec Lithographys John Tingay, R&D Manager r and Paul Harris, Project Manager work on the VB300 tool.
BOTTOM RIGHT: RELM high accuracy Invar scale.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:06 Page 20 20 DENTAL PRODUCTS Renishaw supplies dental frameworks in the form of copings and bridge substructures cut in zirconia.
The frameworks are manufactured using data supplied from Renishaw inciseTM scanners located at dental laboratories.
The inciseTM process involves giving the dentist a set of guidelines showing the ideal tooth preparation to enable the optimum framework to be manufactured.
The inciseTM scanner based at the dental laboratory is a contact-based system using Renishaws SP25 scanning probe.
The complete scanning system is validated to ISO 10360 Part 4 an internationally recognised standard relating to the accuracy of contact scanning systems.
Renishaw aims to develop benchmarked processes, manufacturing standards and state of the art materials and products that enable dental technologists and surgeons to supply their patients with the finest quality metal-free dentistry.
Laboratory guidelines show the technician how to prepare Once the tooth preparation data has been scanned, and scan the model on the inciseTM system.
The inciseTM the laboratory technician defines the margin line on the bridge framework process relies on the same simple data and electronically transfers this to the Renishaw techniques as single copings and uses a combination of manufacturing facility based in Gloucestershire.
Within software and pontic wax-up to achieve the finished design.
48 hours, the zirconia framework, manufactured in line with ISO 13485 medical quality standard, is sent back to the laboratory for finishing.
TOP LEFT: Accuracy analysis of the machined coping.
BOTTOM LEFT: Part of Renishaws dental training facility at New Mills.
MAIN: Scanning preparation and defining margins using inciseTM software.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:06 Page 21 21 Group Profile 4 8 06 10:07 Page 22 22 SPECTROSCOPY PRODUCTS Renishaw has combined Raman spectroscopy with other techniques to provide ever more effective research solutions.
Raman is now available combined with infrared, scanning electron, confocal laser and scanning probe microscopies.
These combinations enable the full characterisation of samples, including morphology, elemental composition and chemical identification.
Raman data can now be correlated with high spatial resolution topographic, electrical and near field optical data it is even possible to obtain Raman data from single molecules!
Renishaw aims to deliver the highest performing Raman instrumentation in all sectors of its product portfolio.
Renishaw designs, manufactures and sells Raman University of Bologna spectroscopy instruments world-wide to many Researchers at the University of Bologna use their pre-eminent academic and industrial organisations.
combined scanning electron microscope SEM structural and chemical analyser SCA system to analyse samples for First detected by C. V. Raman in 1928, inelastic optical cultural heritage and for a wide variety of different projects.
scattering the Raman effect is useful for the investigation of the chemical and physical properties Renishaws SCA provides the interface between an of matter.
However, for many years the instrumentation extended pressure SEM and one of Renishaws Raman was highly complex, bulky and limited in performance.
The SEM provides high resolution images and, when equipped with x-ray analysis, can identify the During the 1990s Renishaw, in collaboration with Leeds chemical elements present, but not their structure.
The University, developed a new generation of high-performance SCA and the spectrometer provide the missing structural compact Raman instruments.
Critical to this development and chemical information, in the form of Raman spectra, were several enabling technologies: increased sensitivity enabling complete characterisation of the sample.
detectors, high-performance filters, improved laser sources and higher performance computers.
Characterisation of constituent materials of artifacts gives information about their age, provenance and production These instruments have expanded the use of Raman technologies and aids in their sympathetic restoration.
spectroscopy into diverse applications, ranging from forensics, to the early detection of some cancers.
It is Analysis of corrosion taken from a part of an antique organ used routinely in the semiconductor industry for detecting pipe helps them understand the corrosion processes so silicon wafer defects, in the art and archaeology fields for that restorators and conservators can safely treat corroded identifying pigments and dating relics, and in pharmaceutical pipes and prevent further deterioration.
markets during the development of new drugs.
In all these Although cultural heritage projects constitute a applications Renishaws instruments have led the field with significant part of the work for the SEM-SCA at the improved performance, easier use and full automation.
Faculty of Industrial Chemistry in the University of Bologna www.
it, many other applications benefit from the facility that is managed by the interdepartmental centre CSB Centro Servizi e Biblioteca.
Current projects include corrosion, powder metallurgy, nanotechnology, pharmaceuticals, chemistry, mechanics and electronics, and environmental science.
Group Profile 4 8 06 15:14 Page 23 23 TOP LEFT AND BOTTOM RIGHT: Analysis of a corroded part of an antique organ pipe at the University of Bologna.
MAIN: University of Bologna - collecting reference material from a mineral pigment sample.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:07 Page 24 24 GROUP ENGINEERING Whilst the design of new products is performed by the Products Divisions, Group Engineering supports this with a range of engineering services that are used in each development project.
The software group offers specialist support and training, undertakes software development projects and promotes software re-use.
The electronics group supports the product designers by providing specialist design resource, designer training, the latest PCB assembly technologies, in-circuit testing techniques and a database of electronic components.
The laboratory services team monitor product regulatory compliance, provide design testing advice, testing resource and supply design test equipment.
Recent investments include an accelerated stress-testing chamber to provide reliability testing under rapid temperature cycling and random vibrations.
The early stages of product development require the evaluation of numerous competing ideas.
Renishaw has made a substantial investment in rapid prototyping facilities, enabling faster testing of concepts produced using selective laser sintering and fused deposition modelling techniques.
Other in-house capabilities include rapid prototyping of PCBs, injection moulding and vacuum casting of plastic parts all aiming to speed up design lead times.
Group Engineering provides software, electronics, design testing, rapid prototyping and research services, supporting innovation throughout the Renishaw Group.
The Group also conducts specialist research into noncartesian systems for new markets such as dental scanning and is working closely with Renishaws partner company, PulseTeq, improving magnetic resonance imaging MRI to provide enhanced medical metrology.
Renishaw also maintains close relationships with many other research establishments and has small teams located at Heriot-Watt Edinburgh and Exeter universities.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:07 Page 25 25 Encoder products undergoing an accelerated stress testing cycle.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:07 Page 26 26 GROUP ENGINEERING: continued Group Profile 4 8 06 10:07 Page 27 27 2 An incisetm dental scanner undergoing electromagnetic compatibility EMC testing in a recently installed 35 m screened room.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:07 Page 28 28 MANUFACTURING Group Profile 4 8 06 15:14 Page 29 29 The new facility at Stonehouse has enabled Renishaws Manufacturing Services Division MSD to plan the layout of the Groups piece part manufacturing operations within 2 the 80,000 ft of factory space.
The refurbishment, which commenced in April 2005, was completed in December.
What was a stereotypical portal-framed factory building has been transformed into what is undoubtedly one of the best machine shop environments in the world.
Given the lack of space constraints that previously faced the company in recent times at New Mills, significant improvements have been made to the environment through innovative ceiling design and construction to reduce noise levels, improved air-conditioning, the implementation of high specification oilmist extraction systems on almost all the machine tools, and the overall finish and appearance of the facility.
The fact that all these operations are now under one roof is of great benefit in terms of improved organisation and efficiency.
In addition, there have been some significant capital commitments to coincide with the relocation such as additional Mazak FJV machines, a new anodising plant, new auto-deburring and raw material processing equipment, and future plans for improvements to cleaning technologies used throughout the various stages of piece part production.
We now have some 150 employees at Stonehouse, with 70 machine tools producing around 300,000 parts each month.
MAIN: RAMTIC Renishaws Automated Milling, Turning and Inspection Centre production line.
BOTTOM RIGHT: Two of four new Mazak FJV machines, recently installed at Stonehouse.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:07 Page 30 30 MANUFACTURING: continued Tool-vending has been introduced for consumable tooling, machine hubs that are local to each machine group and provide an area for storage and management of all tooling and inspection equipment, namely DCC CMMs and facilities that are required to support each small group of machines.
Previously, these facilities were centralised and had become inefficient and ineffective for the size of our operation.
The former Machine Hall at New Mills is being refurbished to transform it into a pre-production factory housing a model-shop and pre-production machine shop, as well as a pre-production electronics facility and nursery assembly cells.
Completion of the refurbishment and moves associated with this development is programmed for late summer 2006.
At Woodchester, the next phase of refurbishment includes a building formerly occupied by a tenant to create additional space for assembly and despatch.
In India, the new building located in Pune will enable the Group to manufacture components which it currently buys in, together with potential metrology products which had not been previously considered due to the cost of manufacture.
Further application software will also be developed for the Groups existing and new products.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:07 Page 31 31 TOP LEFT: Aerial view of Renishaws new manufacturing facility at Stonehouse, Gloucestershire.
BOTTOM LEFT: Internal view of the new Machine Hall at Stonehouse, Gloucestershire.
TOP RIGHT: Some complex parts previously machined in metal are now produced using injection moulding.
BOTTOM RIGHT: Two recently purchased surface mount technology SMT systems installed at Woodchester, Gloucestershire.
Group Profile 4 8 06 15:14 Page 32 32 WORLD-WIDE SUPPORT, MARKETING AND WOTTON TRAVEL LTD Renishaw has long recognised the importance of close relationships with its customers both original equipment manufacturers OEMs and end users.
An international network of subsidiary companies, representative offices and distributors provides support and advice to customers around the world.
In the past year, new offices have been established in the fast-developing markets of Turkey and Thailand, and a new subsidiary has been established in Shanghai that is now supplying goods to Chinese customers in local currency.
Renishaw has also strengthened its presence in India, occupying new offices in Bangalore and Pune with a growing sales and support team.
Similar pressures in the Japanese market have led to a move to expanded premises in Nagoya.
By being close to its customers, wherever they are located around the world, Renishaw aims to provide excellent support and anticipate their business needs.
Renishaws online presence, spearheaded by the Wotton Travel Ltd renishaw.
com website, continues to expand, with over 2.2 Since 1986, WTL has specialised in providing quality million visitors to the companys various websites in the last travel arrangements worldwide.
In addition to public websites in nearly 20 languages, to co-ordinate the travel arrangements for the Renishaw Group, WTL is now an independent travel company confidential information is now shared with customers and partners via secure extranets.
Renishaws new inciseTM dental providing a range of specialist services to corporate framework business relies on web services to provide clients worldwide, as well as leisure travel for instant two-way communication between dental domestic customers.
laboratories and Renishaws central machining facility.
Consultants, with many years experience in the travel Renishaw meets new and existing customers, and industry, have first-hand knowledge of many destinations.
demonstrates its products at over 100 exhibitions and Every enquiry is given individual attention to ensure that conferences each year around the world, supplemented customers can benefit from the best and most by local promotions and seminars.
Many of the Groups cost-effective offer available.
subsidiary companies also provide demonstration and training facilities that enable customers to evaluate Renishaws products.
Renishaw locations Group Profile 4 8 06 10:07 Page 33 33 TOP LEFT: Business travel consultants at WTL.
MAIN: Motorised head rig for repeatability testing after repair.
BOTTOM LEFT: Tool setting arm repair rig.
BOTTOM RIGHT: Personnel from Renishaws Indian subsidiary company undergoing training at New Mills on the latest SAGE accounting software.
Group Profile 4 8 06 10:07 Page 34 34 THE RENISHAW MISSION AND CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY The Renishaw mission Corporate environmental policy Renishaw will design, manufacture and supply metrology The corporate environmental policy is an integral part systems of the highest quality and reliability to enable of Renishaws business strategy.
The responsibility for customers worldwide to carry out dimensional managing and maintaining the policy lies with the Board measurements to traceable standards.
Our product offerings will enhance quality and productivity, Renishaw is an environmentally conscious and responsible and we will strive for total customer satisfaction through company.
To carry out this commitment, it is Renishaws superior customer service.
policy to strive to ensure that all aspects of the business have the least harmful effect on the environment by Our aim is to provide leading-edge technology by implementing an environmental management system to: encouraging innovation to address our customers needs.
Be fully aware of all environmental legislation and ensure We are committed to sustained growth through that regulatory requirements are met and, where feasible, continued investment in product development and improved upon.
Monitor the implementation of the policy by carrying out Renishaw wishes to be recognised collectively and periodic audits of compliance and, when appropriate, individually as leaders and contributors in our field and introduce remedial measures.
Ensure all employees, in the course of their duties, act We wish to achieve our aims in a way that is caring, open in accordance with the environmental policy.
Encourage suppliers, contractors and vendors to act Renishaw is an environmentally conscious and responsible in accordance with our environmental standards.
We will strive to ensure that all aspects of the business have the least harmful effect on the environment.
In addition, areas of particular attention within the business will be the selection of non-polluting technology, waste minimisation, reuse recycling and the reduction of energy consumption.
Renishaw also makes a positive environmental contribution in the local community by encouraging open communication, general environmental awareness and the promotion of community projects.
As with last years Annual report and Group profile, we have used the waterless printing method which eliminates water consumption and the release of organic compounds VOCs into the atmosphere.
Additionally, non-mineral based process inks have been used which reduce the amount of VOCs used even further.
This move is in line with Renishaws corporate environmental policy.
Since August 2002, the printer we are using has ISO 14001 certification for their environmental management programme.
Renishaws headquarters building and main site is at New Mills, Wotton-under-Edge, Gloucestershire, a former 19th century woollen mill.
