Rentokil Initial plc [A Letter from the Chairman & CEO] recruitment and reward to ensure we have the right people and are which is provided in the directors remuneration report starting able to keep them.
We are delighted with the response of existing and on page 46. new staff who are motivated by the scale of the challenges we face.
As well as changes in operational management, there were a Many changes have been made to the companys senior number of changes to the board in 2006.
As mentioned in last years management team and the influx of new people together with the annual report, Ron Spinney and Paul Mason stepped down from the commitment of those who have been with the group for some time board in May and we reiterate our thanks to them both.
We were is slowly bringing about a change in the culture of our company.
We are pleased to welcome two new non-executive directors, Alan Giles and leaving behind the inward focused, risk averse culture and moving Peter Bamford, who joined the board in May and July respectively.
towards a high performance, outward looking, innovative ethos.
Alan and Peters biographies are on page 39 and we are delighted Cultural change is being effected through strong leadership and with the contribution they are already making to the board.
by creating a climate where people are empowered to make decisions about their businesses and their careers.
To do this, we must support How we measure achievement our current leaders and in 2006 we introduced a group-wide The board uses a number of key performance indicators KPIs to leadership programme which provides our people with the tools judge progress towards strategic objectives.
Although many of these to develop their skills.
However, developing todays leaders is not KPIs are output measures such as portfolio development, revenue enough: we must also identify and recognise the potential of future and profit growth in a complex company such as Rentokil Initial the leaders.
A talent management process, also introduced in the past board believes they are the most relevant way of demonstrating to year, is enabling us to understand better the performance and shareholders progress on important issues such as customer potential of our people so we can make the best use of these for both satisfaction, service levels, staff satisfaction and innovation.
This is the business and each individual.
There are more details about these because if we fail to move forward in the latter we will be unable to programmes on page 8 and the Corporate Responsibility section make sustainable progress in the former.
A commentary on starting on page 34 details some other workplace initiatives designed performance against KPIs at group and divisional level can be to enhance the working lives of our people.
found in the review of performance.
Ensuring that rewards and incentives are aligned to the aims of For businesses with recurring revenue, KPIs relating to contract the business and ultimately the interests of our shareholders is a portfolio development are important, some because they are an key element of encouraging strong performance.
We have introduced inherent measure of the level of service we are providing to our a performance review process to enable us to link reward and customers and others because they are indicators of market strength.
performance for all the groups managers, some 2,000 people.
The contract portfolio represents the annualised value of our Shareholders approved a new long-term incentive plan for the top customer contracts and is a leading indicator of performance.
500 or so senior people at the 2006 AGM, further information on We refer to the increase in the contract portfolio as net gain which UNITED AT The changes agreed were wide ranging: OLD TRAFFORD 26 branches across the UK will fold into At a time of change it is vital to get 11 area regional offices, a new National Call employee communications right.
Centre is to be introduced in Dudley and a new National Support Centre created in the In September 2006, Rentokil Pest Control Thames Valley, multiple local area service in the UK organised a two-day conference teams will be created and a new Technical for 750 of its managers, technicians and Service team focused on the needs of high surveyors.
The aim was to ensure that the dependency customers is to be established.
companys employees received a clear briefing at first hand about the planned The gathering at Old Trafford home of reorganisation programme and were given Manchester United was the first company the opportunity to provide their input conference in many years to include the before the programme was carried out.
entire front line pest control team.
05 Rentokil Initial plc [A Letter from the Chairman & CEO] is made up of a number of component KPIs.
New business wins amortisation PBTA.
As with operating profit, in 2006 we have also shows us how successful our sales activities are.
Customer retention used adjusted PBTA which excludes one-off costs.
indicates how satisfied our customers are with the services we provide.
Changes in the as used portion of contracts show What we expect to achieve in 2007 variations in the amount of business existing customers give us In 2007, shareholders can expect to see progress in those businesses under their contracts and the impact of price movements: as such which have been undergoing deep change to the extent that by the they can often be an early indicator of market trends.
For example, end of the year they will be back to business as usual.
In particular in some of the European textiles businesses, a decline in the as used Pest Control and Washroom in the UK will both complete the portion of garments contracts i. e. the actual number of garments we transition to their final planned configurations.
process for customers is a reflection of a shift in manufacturing jobs The Pest Control division is now on a satisfactory growth path to lower cost countries.
For non-portfolio businesses such as Parcel and with the completion of the UK changes during the year we are Delivery, the equivalent KPIs are number of consignments and confident this sound business will return to profitable growth in revenue per consignment.
After the portfolio, we look at growth in total and organic revenue.
Textiles and Washroom Services still has a number of operational We then look at net margin which is a way to judge the success of issues to deal with and faces difficult market conditions in performance and productivity improvement initiatives: improving continental Europe which impacted our ability to recover higher efficiency in a sustained way is fundamental to first stabilising and costs in 2006, leading to margin erosion.
The board believes that then expanding margins.
this division is the major challenge for the group and it is vital that Our profit KPI is operating profit profit before interest, tax progress is made in 2007.
New divisional management is in place and amortisation.
In 2006 we have reported operating profit both and shareholders will be kept informed of our plans as the before and after one-off costs, referring to the latter as adjusted year progresses.
We believe that to look at underlying trends we Overall, we expect to achieve more in terms of both customer need to strip out these costs as they principally relate to one-time retention and new sales growth.
We also expect to make progress restructuring rationalisation projects.
As the level of one-off costs in improving efficiencies.
We are confident that productivity diminishes in the future, we will no longer need to use adjusted improvements can be made in most areas including administration, operating profit as a KPI.
Given the scope in this area we expect gains to be For the overall group, we look at all these KPIs plus some which made over each of the next several years.
are only relevant to the group as whole.
These are operating cash 2007 will be an important year for those businesses that have flow and free cash flow which are measures of our ability to invest been active acquirers as they progress integration and development in our businesses and to pay dividends and profit before tax and plans: most particularly in Parcel Delivery and Asia Pacific.
Now, a customer service administration and IT support, for the UK CUSTOMER SERVICE centre is being established at Dudley, near operations of Pest Control, Washroom Putting customers at the centre Birmingham, to handle both customer Services, Facilities Services and Tropical of everything we do is essential facing and back office functions.
Customers will benefit from longer for success.
operation builds on the infrastructure of a opening hours and our ability to gain service centre which has been operated by instant access to customer data and to Our research shows that customers who the Facilities Services division with great follow-up to ensure issues have been are happy with the way we manage their success for some years.
dealt with, and swifter handling of new accounts and resolve any problems that business enquiries.
occur are more likely to keep their By the second quarter of 2007 more than business with us.
400 staff will be in place dealing with As well as improving our responsiveness to customer enquiries, inbound and outbound customers, there will be an ongoing cost In the UK, individual branches have telesales, accounts payable and receivable saving of around 3 million a year by the traditionally carried out account and payroll, together with HR end of 2008.
06 Rentokil Initial plc [A Letter from the Chairman & CEO] Pacific, the integration plans for both larger acquisitions like Pink Summary and Campbell Brothers acquired in January 2007 and the smaller The boards intention is to create a group capable of sustained businesses are reasonably straightforward and should be largely profit growth.
Following the work we have done over the past two completed within the year.
Parcel Delivery requires a much more years, we expect several of our key businesses to achieve this in 2007, sophisticated process as it absorbs both the franchise network and particularly Pest Control in Europe and the USA, Parcel Delivery, combines with Target Express.
The integration will be completed by UK Cleaning and Asia Pacific.
This will come from a combination the end of 2008. of organic growth from better customer retention rates and The sale of Electronic Security is expected to be completed before higher new sales and acquisitions.
At the same time we do not the end of June.
The proceeds of this sale will be used to pay down underestimate the need to resolve the issues affecting Textiles and debt.
Further acquisitions will be made, including the outstanding Washroom Services.
City Link franchises and additional deals in Asia Pacific.
The board A need for a clear growth trajectory firstly in revenue and then believes there may be some consolidation in the European textiles in profit has been behind our thinking and actions in our business and washroom industry during 2007 and will monitor this situation operations and acquisitions and disposals.
A key part of that has to ensure we are able to take advantage of any opportunities that been much greater focus on customers on identifying their needs might arise to protect or enhance shareholder value.
through customer segmentation and through improving service Overall, the board expects 2007 to be a year of stabilisation, levels.
Our marketing and selling is getting better and we are building on the progress made in 2006 in revenue growth broadening our routes to markets.
particularly organic growth and improvements in contract retention Finally, we asked a lot from our people in 2006 and we are proud rates.
Profit before tax and amortisation will be in line with 2006 of the way they stepped up to the challenge.
We extend our thanks to before the impact of costs associated with rationalisation projects each of them for their hard work and continuing commitment.
and the integration of Target Express.
Some regression is expected in the first quarter due to a number of specific factors, not least the declining trends in Textiles and Washroom Services which were still apparent in the fourth quarter of 2006.
However, we have recently begun to see some improvements in contract portfolio development Brian McGowan Doug Flynn in this division and, if these trends continue, we would expect to Chairman Chief Executive improve on the position for the year.
The dividend policy is unchanged: we will continue to take a 14 March 2007 cautious approach to dividend growth until the recovery in the businesses is well established.
However, the board does not believe there will be a need to reduce it from the 2006 level.
07 Rentokil Initial plc [Review of Performance] How we performed and what lies ahead This Review of Performance takes a close look at each of our business areas Textiles and Washroom Services, Pest Control, Tropical Plants, Electronic Security, Parcel Delivery, Facilities Services and Asia Pacific.
In each case we report on market conditions, record our progress against key performance indicators, discuss the most important developments in 2006 and preview our plans for 2007.
Basis of Preparation Group Performance Review In all cases, references to operating profit are for continuing m Change vs 2005 businesses before amortisation of intangible assets other than Revenue 2,134.4 13.2% Organic revenue 3.1% computer software and development costs.
References to adjusted Operating profit 277.4 4.4% operating profit and adjusted profit before tax and amortisation Adjusted operating profit 301.0 6.2% PBTA also exclude items of a one-off nature, totalling a net cost of Net adjusted margin 14.1% 2.9 percentage points 23.6 million 2005: 30.5 million that have impacted the results for Contract portfolio net gain 158.8 11.6% the period.
They primarily relate to the groups restructuring New business wins 178.0 programmes and consist of the profit on the sale of the former head Net additions reductions 45.4 Acquisitions 93.6 office, consultancy, reorganisation and redundancy costs and a Terminations 158.2 pension curtailment credit.
These have been separately identified Retention rate 88.5% 1.4 percentage points because they are not considered to be business as usual expenses Operating cash flow 209.1 27.1% and, although they are small, they are numerous and have a varying Free cash flow 128.6 19.8% impact on different businesses and reporting periods.
All references PBTA 227.8 4.1% to intangible assets exclude computer software and development Adjusted PBTA 251.4 6.2% costs.
This commentary reflects the management divisional structure and not the statutory segmental information see note 1c.
Revenue from the groups continuing operations increased by 13.2% All comparisons are at constant 2005 full year average exchange rates.
Achievement of 2007 objectives have an identified and effective talent and to our success and we take employee LEADING THE WAY will be directly linked to reward in 2008. succession pipeline for critical senior roles engagement very seriously.
To that end Our determination to secure high More than 300 leaders have participated in over the next three to five years.
we surveyed more than 4,500 employees performance across the organisation 21 global workshops run in five languages.
in one of our global divisions to ensure we has created far-reaching plans for A new portfolio of leadership development understand what motivates our people and business improvement.
At the heart We have also introduced a Talent Process programmes is being launched in 2007 to what they want from us.
We were delighted of this is a strategic focus on ensuring so that we understand the range of strengthen our leadership capability and to that more than 93% responded to the our leaders are fully equipped with capability and potential we have in support our leaders in their critical business survey and action plans have been the skills and disciplines they need our most senior leaders.
These programmes will provide instigated at all levels of management to to achieve change.
feedback process, based on our newly focused, professional development for all ensure we respond to the issues raised.
implemented Leadership Framework, was of our senior leaders.
We have introduced a new Performance Our progress is being tracked and we will undertaken to benchmark our 61 most Management process for our senior leaders Ensuring we maintain the passion and measure again in the autumn of 2007. senior leaders.
Our process will ensure we that aligns individual objectives to business energy we have in the business is critical 08
