Rentokil Initial plc [Accounting Policies] Accounting Policies Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union as at 31 December 2006.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available for sale investments and certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments.
Amendments to IAS 21, The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, IFRIC 4, Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease and IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment have been implemented in 2006 with no material effect on either the current or prior periods.
Amendments to IFRS 1, First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS 6, Exploration for and evaluation of Mineral Resources and interpretation IFRIC 5, Rights to interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds are applicable in the year but are not relevant to the groups operations.
Consolidation a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Any change in the parents controlling interest in a subsidiary that does not result in a loss of control in buying or selling shares to the minority is treated as a transaction with equity shareholders and is shown as a movement in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
b Associates Associates are all entities over which the group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
The groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the associates.
