The Restaurant Group plc Accounting policies for 32 Annual Report 2006 the consolidated accounts Significant accounting policies The Restaurant Group plc the Company is a company incorporated and registered in Scotland.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2006 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in its associate.
a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and its interpretations adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the European Union.
b Basis of preparation For accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2005, the accounting year runs to the nearest Sunday to 31 December each year which will be a 52 or 53 week period.
The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except derivative financial instruments which are held at their fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Future accounting policies IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures will be mandatory for the Group for the year ending 30 December 2007.
This will require the Group to amend certain disclosures in relation to its financial instruments, but will have no impact on the results presented.
IAS 1 Amendment Capital Disclosures will also be mandatory for the Group for the year ending 30 December 2007, and this will not have any impact on the results presented but will amend certain disclosures.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments will be mandatory for the Group for the 2009 year end results, and again will provide amendments to disclosures but will not change the Groups result.
The Group does not consider that any other standards or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not yet applicable, will have a significant impact on the financial statements.
c Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account, regardless of managements intention to exercise that option or warrant.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying amount would be reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
d Foreign currency Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the balance sheet.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
The profit and loss accounts for overseas operations are translated at the average rate of exchange for the periods covered by the accounts.
Exchange differences that relate to the net equity investment in overseas activities are taken directly to reserves.
All other translation differences are taken to the income statement.
e Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007.
This information in itself does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of section 240 Companies Act 1985.
The Restaurant Group plc 33 Annual Report 2006 Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
f Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy k. Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
The owner-occupied property excluding land element acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy k. Lease payments are accounted for as described in accounting policy r. Subsequent costs The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other costs are recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Freehold land Indefinite Freehold buildings 50 years Long and short leasehold property Term of lease or 25 years, whichever is lower Fixtures and equipment 3-10 years Motor vehicles 4 years Computer equipment 3-5 years g Intangible assets goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 has not been reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is tested annually for impairment see accounting policy k. In respect of associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the associate.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement.
h Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less impairment losses see accounting policy k. i Stock Stock is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
k Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill and assets that have an indefinite useful life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
The Restaurant Group plc Accounting policies for 34 Annual Report 2006 the consolidated accounts continued l Share-based payment transactions The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a Stochastic model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to market based conditions not achieving the threshold for vesting.
m Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
n Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences identified at the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
o Pensions The Group makes contributions for selected employees into defined contribution pension plans and these contributions are charged to the income statement as they become payable.
The Group does not operate any defined benefit plans.
p Onerous contracts A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
q Revenue Revenue represents amounts received and receivable for services and goods provided excluding value added tax and voluntary gratuities left by customers for the benefit of employees.
r Expenses i Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
ii Finance lease payments Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
iii Pre-opening expenses Property rentals and related costs incurred up to the date of opening of a new restaurant are written off to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
Promotional and training costs are written off to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
s Dividend policy In accordance with IAS 10, Events after the Balance Sheet Date, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability at that balance sheet date, and are recognised in the financial statements when they have received approval by shareholders.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies as described above, management has made the following judgements and estimations that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: a Impairment of carrying value of loan note from associate Following a detailed review of the carrying value of Living Ventures, and in light of current trading performance, the Board has concluded that it is appropriate to make a provision of 9.5m against the loan note repayable in 2008. b Impairment of goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on a twice-annual basis.
This requires an estimate of the value in use of the assets to which goodwill is ascribed.
Estimating the value-in-use requires the Group to make an estimate of the future cash flows from those assets and to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Note 11 provides further information on assumptions used.
c DPP Restaurants Limited DPP Restaurants Ltd DPP was consolidated as a subsidiary under IAS 27 throughout 2005 even though The Restaurant Group plc TRG or The Group legally only held 19.9% of the issued share capital due to the existence of an option to take full control of DPP which became exercisable on 31 December 2004.
The additional income statement segregates the results of DPP in 2005 when the business was not under the direct control of the Board.
TRG acquired full control of DPP on 12 January 2006 for a nominal sum and therefore the Group results include those of DPP in 2006 as detailed further in note 2.
