846725 pp006 pp008 26 2 07 19:09 Page 7 Cautionary statement about forward looking statements This document contains certain forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Rio Tinto Group.
The words intend, aim, project, anticipate, estimate, plan, believes, expects, may, should, will, or similar expressions, commonly identify such forward looking statements.
Examples of forward looking statements in this Annual report and financial statements include those regarding estimated ore reserves, anticipated production or construction dates, costs, outputs and productive lives of assets or similar factors.
Forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors set forth in this document that are beyond the Groups control.
For example, future ore reserves will be based in part on market prices that may vary significantly from current levels.
These may materially affect the timing and feasibility of particular developments.
Other factors include the ability to produce and transport products profitably, demand for our products, the effect of foreign currency exchange rates on market prices and operating costs, and activities by governmental authorities, such as changes in taxation or regulation, and political uncertainty.
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, actual results could be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by these forward looking statements which speak only as at the date of this report.
Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events.
The Group cannot guarantee that its forward looking statements will not differ materially from actual results.
Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements 7 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ABOUT FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS 2006
