If the surplus assets available for distribution by one whose obligations are being guaranteed.
The obligations of the Company on each of the shares held by its public shareholders exceed guarantor under each Deed Poll Guarantee expire upon termination of the surplus assets available for distribution by the other Company on the Sharing Agreement and under other limited circumstances, but only each of the shares held by its public shareholders, then an equalising in respect of obligations arising after such termination and, in the case of payment between the two Companies shall be made, to the extent other limited circumstances, the publication and expiry of due notice.
permitted by applicable law, such that the amount available for The shareholders of the Companies cannot enforce the provision of the distribution on each share held by public shareholders of each Deed Poll Guarantees.
Company conforms to the Equalisation Ratio.
The objective is to ensure that the public shareholders of both Companies have equivalent rights SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION to the assets of the combined Group on a per share basis, taking General shareholder enquiries account of the Equalisation Ratio.
Computershare Investor Services PLC and Computershare Investor The Sharing Agreement does not grant any enforceable rights to the Services Pty Limited are the share registrars for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto shareholders of either Company upon liquidation of a Company.
All enquiries and correspondence concerning shareholdings, other than shares held in ADR form, should be directed to Limitations on ownership of shares and merger obligations the respective registrar.
Their addresses and telephone numbers are given The laws and regulations of the UK and Australia impose restrictions under Useful addresses on page 96.
Shareholders should notify and obligations on persons who control interests in public quoted Computershare promptly in writing of any change of address.
companies in excess of defined thresholds that, under certain Enquiries concerning Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares held circumstances, include obligations to make a public offer for all of the in ADR form should be directed to JPMorgan Chase Bank NA whose outstanding issued shares of the relevant company.
The threshold address and telephone number are also given under Useful addresses.
applicable to Rio Tinto plc under UK law and regulations is 30 per cent Shareholders can obtain details about their own shareholding on the and to Rio Tinto Limited under Australian law and regulations is internet.
Full details, including how to gain secure access to this 20 per cent.
personalised enquiry facility, are available from Computershare.
As part of the DLC merger, the memorandum and articles of Website: www.
com association of Rio Tinto plc and the constitution of Rio Tinto Limited were amended with the intention of extending these laws and Consolidation of share certificates regulations to the combined enterprise and, in particular, to ensure that If a certificated shareholding in Rio Tinto plc is represented by several a person cannot exercise control over one Company without having individual share certificates, they can be replaced by one consolidated made offers to the public shareholders of both Companies.
There is no charge for this service.
Share certificates should consistent with the creation of the single economic enterprise and the be sent to Computershare together with a letter of instruction.
equal treatment of the two sets of shareholders, that these laws and regulations should operate in this way.
The articles of association of Share certificates name change Rio Tinto plc and the constitution of Rio Tinto Limited impose Share certificates in the name of The RTZ Corporation PLC remain valid restrictions on any person who controls, directly or indirectly, 20 per cent notwithstanding the name change to Rio Tinto plc in 1997. or more of the votes on a Joint Decision.
If, however, such a person only has an interest in either Rio Tinto Limited or Rio Tinto plc, then the Share warrants to bearer restrictions will only apply if they control, directly or indirectly, 30 per cent All outstanding share warrants to bearer of Rio Tinto plc have been or more of the votes at that Companys general meetings.
converted into registered ordinary shares under the terms of a Scheme If one of the thresholds specified above is breached then, subject to of Arrangement sanctioned by the Court in 2001.
Holders of any certain limited exceptions and notification by the relevant Company, outstanding share warrants to bearer should contact the company such persons may not attend or vote at general meetings of the relevant secretary of Rio Tinto plc for an application form in order to obtain their Company, may not receive dividends or other distributions from the rights to registered ordinary shares.
relevant Company, and may be divested of their interest by the directors of the relevant Company.
These restrictions will continue to apply until Low cost share dealing service such persons have either made a public offer for all of the publicly held Stocktrade operates the Rio Tinto Low Cost Share Dealing Service shares of the other Company, or have reduced their controlling interest which provides a simple telephone facility for buying and selling below the thresholds specified, or have acquired through a permitted Rio Tinto plc shares.
Basic commission is 0.5 per cent up to 10,000, means at least 50 per cent of the voting rights of all the shares held by reducing to 0.2 per cent thereafter, subject to a minimum commission of the public shareholders of each Company.
Further information is available from Stocktrade, a division of These provisions are designed to ensure that offers for the publicly Brewin Dolphin Securities, which is authorised and regulated by the held shares of both Companies would be required to avoid the Financial Services Authority.
Their details are given under Useful restrictions set out above, even if the interests which breach the addresses.
thresholds are only held in one of the Companies.
The directors do not have the discretion to exempt a person from the operation of these Individual Savings Account ISA rules.
Stocktrade offers UK residents the opportunity to hold Rio Tinto plc Under the Sharing Agreement, the Companies agree to cooperate shares in an ISA.
Existing PEPs or ISAs may also be transferred to to enforce the restrictions contained in their articles of association and Stocktrade.
Further information can be obtained from Stocktrade whose constitution and also agree that no member of the Rio Tinto Group shall details are given under Useful addresses.
accept a third party offer for Rio Tinto Limited shares unless such acceptance is approved by a Joint Decision of the public shareholders Corporate nominee service of both Companies.
Computershare in conjunction with Rio Tinto plc, have introduced a corporate nominee service for private individuals.
Further information Guarantees can be obtained from Computershare.
In 1995, each Company entered into a Deed Poll Guarantee in favour of creditors of the other Company.
Pursuant to the Deed Poll Guarantees, Publication of financial statements each Company guaranteed the contractual obligations of the other Shareholders wishing to receive the Annual report and financial Company and the obligations of other persons which are guaranteed by statements and or the Annual review in electronic rather than paper the other Company, subject to certain limited exceptions.
Beneficiaries form should register their instruction on the Computershare website.
under the Deed Poll Guarantees may make demand upon the guarantor thereunder without first having recourse to the Company or persons Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements 93 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2006 846725 pp088 pp094 24 2 07 9:56 am Page 94 Shareholder information continued eTree Rio Tinto is a founding member of eTree, an environmental incentive scheme to link shareholders with reforestation projects in Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom when they register for electronic shareholder communications.
com Unsolicited mail and telephone calls Rio Tinto is aware that some shareholders have had occasion to complain that outside organisations have used information obtained from the Companies share registers for their own purposes.
Rio Tinto, like other companies, cannot by law refuse to supply such information provided that the organisation concerned pays the appropriate statutory fee.
Shareholders in the UK, who wish to reduce the amount of unsolicited mail and telephone calls they receive, should register with The Mailing Preference Service and The Telephone Preference Service whose details are set out on page 96.
Rio Tinto on the web Rio Tinto maintains a substantial amount of information on its website, including this and previous annual reports, many other publications and links to Group company websites.
It is the responsibility of the directors to ensure that processes are in place to maintain information and preserve the integrity of the Rio Tinto website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
com General enquiries If you require general information about the Group please contact the Communications and External Relations department.
For all other enquiries please contact the relevant company secretary or share registrar.
Publications The following publications are on the website but hardcopies can be obtained free of charge on request from the company secretaries: 2006 Annual report and financial statements 2006 Annual review 2006 Sustainable development review 2006 Financial statements including reconciliation to US accounting principles 2006 Parent entity financial statements for Rio Tinto Limited The way we work Rio Tintos statement of business practice Review magazine Rio Tintos quarterly magazine for shareholders Copies of the 2006 annual reports for the following listed Rio Tinto Group companies are also available on request: Bougainville Copper Limited Coal & Allied Industries Limited Energy Resources of Australia Limited Palabora Mining Company Limited 94 Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2006
