Business review We commenced operations in our new UK facilities at Operations Derby, Hucknall, Barnoldswick and Bristol during 2006 and we will cease operations in all the old factories during 2007.
We reached agreement on modern working practices with all the remaining UK component manufacturing workforces as well as our repair and 2006 highlights overhaul workforce in Montreal, Canada.
Our Global The rapid growth in manufacturing load continued Council covering all employees met successfully twice in 2006. during the year.
We used our Process Excellence programme to We reduced our supplier base to 666 as part of our continue the drive for better quality and continuous Supply Chain Restructuring programme.
In 2006 we saw a positive step change Our employee numbers increased 4.8 per cent and sales in the quality performance of our external supply chain.
This was the main driver of an improvement in overall supply chain quality of approximately 20 per cent.
Operations commenced at our new UK facilities in We further reduced the operating cost of our IT Derby, Hucknall, Barnoldswick and Bristol.
estate allowing our new investment proportion of total IT cost to rise to its highest level to date.
Our total IT spend remained constant year-on-year resulting in a reduction as a percentage of turnover to 2.4 per cent.
In 2006, we completed the standardisation of our Enterprise Resource Planning ERP systems for the energy business, the aero repair and overhaul business and the aero gas turbine units in Europe.
In 2007 the remaining units in the US and Canada will be standardised to give us a single and truly global supply chain management system.
Implementation of Product Lifecycle Management Systems coupled with a thorough revision to the Rapid growth in manufacturing load continued in business process has driven considerable productivity 2006, closing the year 12 per cent above 2005 even improvement in engineering.
after the effect of temporarily ceasing manufacture As forecast, our inventories increased in 2006 to of the Trent 900 in September.
All sectors and regions respond to the growth in output, to build aftermarket contributed to this growth.
support stocks and to increase strategic stocks of rare Operationally, raw material supply constraints metals.
We continued to offset these increases by continued to have a disruptive effect but this improved improvements in the management of financial working steadily throughout the year, driving a general capital to effect a further improvement in working improvement in delivery performance by our external capital utilisation.
The delay to the Airbus A380 programme In 2007 our priorities will be to complete all our resulted in the Trent 900 manufacturing being suspended ERP IT projects and implement a Global Supply for one year with effect from September 2006.
Chain management structure which will allow us to In spite of these issues, we were able to support consolidate commodity management and increase the our portfolio of manufacturing programmes and as dollar based proportion of our purchase bill.
We will also usual I take this opportunity to thank all of our employees complete all of our UK factory moves which have been and suppliers for their efforts in 2006 in this regard.
protracted due to stronger market growth and disruption We continued our programme of Supply Chain caused by shortages of raw materials.
Our drive for Restructuring in 2006.
Our supplier base reduced by operating and unit cost reduction will continue as will John Chefns 32 to 666 although we added 103 new suppliers.
our Process Excellence initiative whilst we prepare for Chief Operating officer Our sourcing in emerging low-cost markets increased the load increase in 2008 when Airbus A380 production from nine per cent to 11 per cent of purchases.
will recommence and Boeing 787 production begins.
Commodity prices continued to rise throughout the year, although by the year-end the peak appeared to have passed in the case of fuels and perhaps some metals.
During the year we successfully concluded new long-term agreements for the major primary metals we require giving us security of supply and cost stability.
We continued to drive for lower operating costs focusing on overheads and added-value activities within our control.
We increased our employee population by 4.8 per cent and delivered an improvement from 186,000 to 192,000 in sales per employee via productivity improvements.
We were not able to fully offset the effects of commodity price inflation in 2006 and, as a result, product unit costs rose slightly in the year.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 29
