13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 15:58 Page 9 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Operations Key Business Drivers Employees As a business to business support service company we The Group remains committed to assist our clients in responding to the opportunities creating an employment environment and problems which they face.
These arise from: which will attract, retain and motivate employees of high calibre.
Throughout the nn the commercial advantage to be gained by Group emphasis is placed upon personal developing or redeveloping land, other natural development to meet both todays needs resources such as energy reserves, or buildings: and those of the future.
Employee communication and this requires proper planning, design and consultation is encouraged at all levels of the business.
evaluation of the potential effects of the proposed The criteria for selection and promotion are the development: individuals suitability for the position offered based on nn the necessity for public agencies, privatised utilities, their qualifications, experience, skills and abilities.
regulated businesses and their agents to provide Divisions manage the remuneration of staff within the adequate infrastructure: again such provision guidelines of the approved annual budgets.
We have requires proper planning, design, evaluation of all the traditional personnel management structures environmental effects and risk management: within our business carrying out all the necessary administrative functions.
There are able personnel nn the necessity to comply with legislation which management groups dealing with staffing issues in relate to planning, environmental and health & each country within which we operate.
safety matters: this regulation and legislation derives from the activities of both the European The employees of the Group are able to Union and the national Governments and participate in the success of the Company through continues to expand at a rapid pace: and the Companys Share Incentive Plan SIP and Share Purchase Plan SPP and Performance Share Plan nn the need to manage and, where possible, PSP.
The SIP and SPP are open to the majority of eliminate risk which may arise from environmental Group employees and offers them the opportunity of or health & safety issues: potential risks arise purchasing shares with the Company providing one when, for example, assets are being purchased matching share for every employee purchased share.
and or developed or from the existence of The PSP is available to senior members of staff and substances which, if not properly disposed of or enables them to build significant equity participation managed, could damage the natural environment over a period of years.
All these drivers are set within the context that the Governments in all the countries in which we operate are intent upon improving the environment and creating sustainable societies.
This is a general trend of fundamental importance to our business and one which will develop further, providing long-term opportunities for us.
During 2006 the issue of sustainability linked to climate change, energy security and globalisation continued to rise further up the political agenda focussing attention on energy supplies and the nature of urban development thereby creating a range of new opportunities for our businesses.
Operating & Financial Review 9 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 15:58 Page 10 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Operations continued Operating Structure services being provided locally in Ireland and the Netherlands.
The offices in Perth, Australia, Houston, A significant part of the Groups success derives USA, Calgary, Canada and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia from the clarity and accountability of its management are managed as part of the Energy division, but have structure.
The core of this structure is the individual local accounting and support staff.
business unit which normally comprises a separate office or activity, each of which is treated separately Equal Opportunities in Employment for the purposes of budgeting and accounting.
RPS provides equal opportunities for all its employees From time to time business units are grouped into and potential employees regardless of their sex, sexual either functional or geographical divisions areas.
orientation, age, race, religion, ethnic origin, disability, This organisation is capable of delivering and marital status, colour, and nationality.
The policy applies managing significantly more organic and to the advertisement of jobs, recruitment and acquired growth.
appointment, training, conditions of work, pay and 104.8 02 to every aspect of employment.
We recognise our obligations to ensure that 03 124.6 people with disabilities are afforded equal opportunities to employment and progress within 168.2 04 the Group.
05 217.8 We deplore all forms of sexual and racial harassment and seek to ensure that our working 06 296.8 environment is sympathetic to all employees.
Revenue m Advice is available to all employees involved in employment decisions, particularly in respect of The Group provides support to the marketing promotion, transfer, training and discipline, as well as functions of these businesses through its business all stages of recruitment and selection.
information unit which is also responsible for the Group web site and intranet.
We continued to make RPS policy on equal opportunities covers all areas significant investments in the intranet and website of discrimination.
We seek to comply with the Sex during 2006 as they are the main mechanism we use Discrimination Act, the Race Relations Act, the to develop internal and external communications in Disability Discrimination Act, Equal Pay Acts and the the Group.
In order to do this we also continued to Protection from Harassment Act in the UK and similar upgrade our IT networks.
The businesses in England, legislation in other countries in which we operate.
Wales and Scotland are supported by centrally run accountancy and personnel functions, with these 10 Operating & Financial Review 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 15:59 Page 11 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Training and Continuous Professional approved CPD schemes for civil engineers in the UK Development and Ireland.
Our aim is to help the development of individuals throughout their employment with the RPS is committed to the training, education and Company, by underpinning the strengthening skills and development of its employees to increase professional ethics, whilst broadening their business effectiveness, develop potential and ensure adequate knowledge.
One of the key objectives of the scheme succession planning.
RPS was named as one of is the long-term commitment to Continuous Britains Top Employers 2007 by the Corporate Professional Development CPD of all existing staff Research Foundation.
The CRF report, published In within the organisation.
Thereby individuals are always September 2006 by Guardian Books, singled out the able to demonstrate technical experience in specific Companys commitment to training and innovation as sectors, such as the water industry, or in relevant important factors in its success.
Divisional Directors and their appointed project RPS industrial architecture and civil engineering managers and full-time professional trainers are practice at Newark has obtained an Investors in responsible for the management of training and for People accreditation recognising its commitment to the verification of technical competence for project staff training, internal communications and client personnel, in accordance with our quality feedback dissemination and response.
The scheme not management system.
only focuses on the in-house training provision for RPS is a recognised commercial training provider school leavers and graduate level CAD technicians, in a number of specific technical fields and is certified but also on promoting best practice at every level of by such external bodies as CCNSG ECITB on site the business.
RPS operates a CIWEM approved structured training scheme for its chartered water and environmental engineers and MICE and MIEI Planning Environmental Central Energy & Development Management Services Group 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 Average number of employees Average number of employees 285 1,927 1,145 81 3,438 Days absent % 0.5 1.2 2.1 1.6 1.4 Average length of service years 6.2 4.6 4.8 4.6 5.0 Working part time % 13.0 20.7 7.7 13.5 15.4 Women All employees % 27.9 37.2 16.8 59.0 29.8 Ethnic minorities All employees % 6.1 7.1 3.3 7.4 5.8 Age profile Employees aged under 25 % 6.6 15.4 14.9 11.5 13.9 Employees aged 25-29 % 11.9 23.5 14.5 13.8 19.0 Employees aged 30-49 % 54.5 48.0 53.1 55.5 50.2 Employee aged 50 % 27.0 13.1 17.5 19.2 16.9 Health and Safety Minor accidents and near misses 5 26 37 270 Reported accidents 2 5 7 1 15 Pensions Active members 201 938 512 38 1,689 Operating & Financial Review 11 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 15:59 Page 12 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Operations continued For the fourth consecutive year RPS in the UK RPS has participated in a number of graduate continued its practice of awarding academic bursaries training schemes.
These include the Leonardo da Vinci at eight UK universities which this year are: II Scheme LDVII, a European Commission supported initiative aimed at providing work placements for nn University of Cambridge, Christ Church College qualified graduates from designated development MEng in Civil Engineering & MEng in Structural regions of the European Community seeking work Engineering experience within leading companies in more nn University of Oxford, Edward Grey Institute of developed European countries.
Field Ornithology RPS was the main sponsor of the University of PhD in Waterfowl in the S. W. London Water Wales Students Skills Competition at Aberystwyth, a Bodies Special Protection Area long-running student and employer twinning event nn Oxford Brookes University which is unique in British higher education.
RPS longMSc in Spacial Planning standing support and involvement in the event has attracted an annual crop of outstanding graduates and nn University College Cardiff postgraduates from various academic disciplines into MSc in Regional Town Planning jobs within the Group.
nn University of East Anglia RPS scholarship programme in Ireland involves a BSc in Environmental Science partnership with four leading universities and three nn Brunel University, School of Engineering & Design institutes of technology.
The four universities were: EngD in Infrared and Thermal Imaging of Nocturnal Bird Movements nn University College Cork nn University College Dublin nn Queens University, Belfast MEng in Civil Engineering nn Trinity College Dublin nn University of Wales, Newport Allt-yr-yn Campus nn University College Galway HND in Business Administration and Accounting RPS provided funding to Masters level students to Australia has awarded academic bursaries for the pursue studies in engineering related disciplines.
RPS following courses: sponsors the Gold Medal for the top Civil Engineering nn University of Western Australia student at University College Dublin and the Centre Masters Degree in Petroleum Engineering for Talented Youth programme.
RPS sponsored bursaries with the Planning nn Curtin University College at Dublin Institute of Technology.
RPS offers Bachelor of Commerce prizes to Students in the disciplines of Manufacturing, nn Perth Technical College Biomedical and Facilities Engineering with Cork Certificate and Diploma in Accounting Institute of Technology and through the ISA nn University of New South Wales Instrument Society of America Irish Branch jointly Petroleum Economics through the Cork Institute of Technology, the Dublin Institute of Technology and the Carlow Institute of Technology.
12 Operating & Financial Review 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 15:59 Page 13 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 We aim to identify and provide training, education Growth and Funding and development for employees, in order that they RPS operates in markets which are generally attractive can develop and apply this knowledge to greater and and expanding with good long-term prospects, but more demanding roles in the future.
We need, therefore, to keep our possible we try to identify successors to key posts products and services and how we market and deliver within the organisation as part of our ongoing them under continuous review.
The Board believes succession management policy.
Central to identifying that the long-term health and growth of the Group our training and educational needs is staff appraisal.
will be best secured by ensuring that RPS is, and is This activity is concerned with developing staff by perceived by clients and staff to be, a market leader in identifying and meeting performance and training each of our business areas.
Our corporate strategy is needs as well as developing individual potential.
Appraisals are intended to complement the Our financial growth objectives focus on profit standard staff induction programme on Company rather than revenue.
Whilst it is tempting to remain in policy and procedures, which covers topics including products and markets where margins are falling in safety or equipment handling and involves assessments order to maintain revenue, we do not adopt this of competency on a more administrative level.
Instead we endeavour to find ways of appraisal is a continuous process and is not limited to delivering service in more attractive ways to clients formal meetings.
However formal appraisal meetings or if this is not possible scale back or end our take place in many parts of the Group at least once involvement in unattractive markets and develop a year.
and invest in new, more attractive, areas.
The Board is committed to achieving year on year Property profit and earnings growth for the Group, but does The Group occupies 91 commercial office premises.
not set specific targets for this.
We are endeavouring In respect of 12 of these we owned the freehold.
to deliver long-term shareholder value and have, These had an aggregate net book value of 9.6 million therefore, to balance annual earnings growth with at December 2006.
Negotiations are under way investment in both our existing clients, staff and which, if completed, would result in the disposal of products and the development of our product one or more of these at a value in excess of book offering and capability.
The remaining properties are occupied under a range of lease agreements.
The total rent roll for 2006 was 4.8 million.
Operating & Financial Review 13 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 15:59 Page 14 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Operations continued The acquisition strategy RPS has pursued over the Shareholder Value last decade has brought considerable benefit to The Board manages the Group in order to achieve shareholders, clients and staff.
The companies acquired good levels of growth in shareholder value on a have enabled us to build strong positions in a number consistent long-term basis.
The Board, however, of markets and, for example, to create a new business recognises that this can only be achieved by providing in the energy sector.
This, in turn, enables us to offer a a competitive service which adds value to our clients broader, higher quality service to our clients and organisations and offering an attractive working attractive employment to staff and potential recruits.
environment and career prospects to our staff.
Striking The financial performance of the companies which this balance whilst also respecting our responsibility to have been acquired has increased the Groups growth.
society at large, is the main task facing the Board.
The Board sees the maintenance of this element of That the Group has continued to grow over the strategy as being of importance to the continued such a long period confirms we are operating in growth of RPS and is prepared to consider more an attractive sector and implementing a good significant acquisitions, as well as making acquisitions strategy successfully.
outside the countries in which we currently operate.
Corporate Governance At the year end the Group had net borrowings of 30.1 million Note 25.
RPS normally generates RPS has had a strong system of governance in place sufficient free cash to fund its working capital and throughout its corporate life.
In recent years we have capital expenditure requirements.
Additional cash formalised this in response to the various codes and resources are, therefore, only needed in order to guidelines that have emerged.
The various policies pursue the Groups acquisition strategy.
From time to relevant to this are set out fully on pages 40 to 55. time, therefore the Board secures funds by means of The Board believes that its long-term shareholders arranging debt finance or equity placings.
understand that RPS operates the highest governance standards.
We currently have bank facilities of 72 million.
The Board believes this will enable the Group to maintain its strategy throughout 2007, although it is possible that a larger acquisition could necessitate additional debt or equity finance.
Dividend Policy For a number of years our dividend has grown at an average annual compound rate of about 15%.
Our ability to maintain this level of growth will depend upon both the scale of earnings growth as well as the nature and scale of future acquisitions and how that investment is funded.
The final dividend will normally be greater than the interim payment.
Dividends paid and proposed are detailed on page 58.
