Definitions An explanation of some of the terms and abbreviations used in Non-financial definitions this annual report is shown below.
ACNielsen Financial definitions ACNielsen is a leading global provider of marketing research information.
Its principal clients are retailers and manufacturers Adjusted earnings of fast moving consumer goods FMCGs.
Adjusting earnings are calculated by adjusting headline earnings by adding back exceptional trading losses and deducting exceptional BEE trading gains.
The Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act has been created by the government in South Africa to help redress the Adjusted profit before tax Clean PBT imbalances in South African society created by apartheid.
The This is defined as profit before tax and exceptional items and empowerment process has been identified as being crucial to includes the share of post tax results of associates before the future viability of the countrys economy.
CSD Cash operating margin % Carbonated soft drinks such as Coca-Cola, Fanta, etc.
This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by expressing EBITDA as a percentage of revenue excluding share of associates Channel marketing revenue.
Channel marketing is a term used to describe the focus of sales and marketing effort of a brand on a particular style outlet and Cash operating return % towards a specifically identified type of customer.
This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by expressing the sum of EBITDA and cash dividends received from associates Combined Code and other investments, as a percentage of net operating assets, The Combined Code on Corporate Governance, published by the adjusted for cumulative goodwill eliminated against shareholders UK Financial Reporting Council.
funds previously under UK GAAP and accumulated depreciation and amortisation.
DMA Defined Market Areas, a collective term used by the Miller Brewing EBITA Company to describe its 61 differentiated markets in the USA.
This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets excluding software and includes Economy segment the groups share of associates operating profit on a similar basis.
Taking an index where the bulk of the market volume is at a price index of 100, the economy sector would index at around 85.
EBITA margin % Normally, all brands in this segment will be local brands.
In the This is calculated by expressing EBITA as a percentage of group beer market, the economy segment is usually dominated by revenue including share of associates revenue.
EBITDA FAB This comprises the net cash generated from operations before Flavoured alcoholic beverage.
A ready-mixed alcoholic drink, often working capital movements.
containing some form of fruit flavouring.
FAB also stands for fruit alcohol beverage which specifically refers to a ready-mixed Effective tax rate % alcoholic drink containing fruit flavouring as opposed to non-fruit This is calculated by expressing total taxation including share of flavouring such as caramel.
associates tax, excluding tax on exceptional items both group and share of associates and tax on amortisation of intangible FMB assets excluding software, as a percentage of profit before tax, Flavoured malt beverage.
A ready-mixed alcoholic drink exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets excluding specifically derived from a malt base, often containing some software and including share of operating profit of associates form of fruit flavouring.
including share of interest before tax, minority interest and exceptional items.
Mainstream segment Mainstream represents the group of brands that constitute the Net asset value per share bulk of the market volume at a price index of 100.
Key to this This is calculated by expressing shareholders funds as a group is the leading volume brand in any market.
Mainstream percentage of the closing number of shares in issue.
Net interest cover Model Code This is the ratio of profit before interest, taxation and exceptional The securities dealing code contained in the Listing Rules of the items EBIT to net financing costs before exceptional items.
Operating free cash flow Organic growth This comprises net cash from operating activities less cash paid for Refers to a companys growth rate, excluding any growth from the purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Return on equity % PET This is calculated by expressing adjusted earnings as a percentage PET is short for polyethylene terephthalate, a form of plastic which of total shareholders equity.
is used for bottling alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks.
Premium segment Premium segment is an alternative term for the worthmore segment.
144 STRATE STRATE stands for Share Transactions Totally Electronic and is an unlisted company owned by JSE Limited and Central Securities Depository Participants CSDP and exists to allow share transactions in South Africa to be settled electronically.
Worthmore segment The worthmore segment is dominated by international brands.
They are brands which consumers perceive to offer greater value than mainstream brands and for which they are willing to pay a premium.
Mainstream brands are priced at about a price index of 100 and worthmore brands index at around 120 and above.
As a result, the worthmore segment, although small in volume terms, often generates a disproportionate level of profit, when compared to the mainstream and economy segments.
