Annual financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 Index 58 Statement of directors responsibilities on the consolidated financial statements 59 Independent auditors report on the consolidated financial statements 60 Consolidated income statements 61 Consolidated balance sheets 62 Consolidated cash flow statements 63 Consolidated statements of total recognised income and expense 64 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 134 Statement of directors responsibilities on the company financial statements 134 Independent auditors report on the company financial statements 135 Balance sheet of SABMiller plc 136 Notes to the company financial statements 57 Statement of directors responsibilities on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated In addition, the Companies Act 1985 requires directors to provide financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair the groups auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps view of the state of affairs of the group and of the profit or loss of and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be the group for that year.
In preparing those consolidated financial appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
statements the directors are required to: The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, confirm that: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit consistently.
information of which the groups auditors are unaware: and Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have and prudent.
taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant State that the consolidated financial statements comply audit information and to establish that the groups auditors are with IFRS.
Prepare the consolidated financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the The directors have reviewed the groups budget and cash flow group will continue in business.
On the basis of this review, and in the light of the current financial position and existing borrowing facilities, the directors are The directors confirm that they have complied with the above satisfied that SABMiller plc is a going concern and have continued requirements in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting statements.
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the A copy of the financial statements of the group and company financial position of the group and to enable them to ensure that are placed on the companys website.
The directors are responsible the consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies for the maintenance and integrity of statutory and audited information Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of on the companys website.
Information published on the internet the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
58 Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc We have audited the group financial statements of SABMiller plc for or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
the year ended 31 March 2006 which comprise the consolidated Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement Basis of audit opinion of total recognised income and expense and the related notes.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards These group financial statements have been prepared under the on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices accounting policies set out therein.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence We have reported separately on the parent company financial relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements of SABMiller plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 and statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation described as having been audited.
of the group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law information and explanations which we considered necessary in and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors assurance that the group financial statements are free from material Responsibilities.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the presentation of information in the group financial statements.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Opinion companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 In our opinion: of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2006 and into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: our prior consent in writing.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial the IAS Regulation: and statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the the information in the Directors Report is consistent with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report group financial statements.
to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is consistent with the group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes specific information that is cross-referred from the Other Information section of the Directors Report.
We also report to you, in our opinion, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified Chartered Accountants by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions and Registered Auditors is not disclosed.
London We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement 5 June 2006 reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report, as described in the contents, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements 59 Consolidated income statements for the years ended 31 March 2006 2005 Notes US$m US$m Revenue 2 15,307 12,901 Net operating expenses 3 12,732 10,354 Operating profit 2,575 2,547 Operating profit before exceptional items 2,590 2,132 Exceptional items 4 15 415 Net finance costs 299 143 Interest payable and similar charges 5a 377 239 Interest receivable 5b 78 96 Share of post-tax results of associates 177 148 Profit before taxation 2,453 2,552 Taxation 7 779 823 Profit for the year 24 1,674 1,729 Profit attributable to minority interests 234 208 Profit attributable to equity shareholders 1,440 1,521 1,674 1,729 Basic earnings per share US cents 8 105.0 125.5 Diluted earnings per share US cents 8 104.3 121.2 All operations are continuing.
The notes on pages 64 to 133 form part of the financial statements.
60 Consolidated balance sheets at 31 March 2006 2005 Notes US$m US$m Assets Non-current assets Goodwill 10 12,539 7,181 Intangible assets 11 3,596 122 Property, plant and equipment 12 6,340 4,056 Investments in associates 13 1,067 1,116 Financial assets: Available for sale investments 14 41 187 Derivative financial instruments 21 3 Trade and other receivables 16 87 54 Deferred tax assets 19 278 153 23,951 12,869 Current assets Inventories 15 881 627 Trade and other receivables 16 1,218 952 Current tax assets 54 56 Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments 21 4 Loan participation deposit 196 Cash and cash equivalents 17 472 1,143 2,825 2,778 Total assets 26,776 15,647 Liabilities Current liabilities Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments 21 3 Borrowings 20 1,950 815 Trade and other payables 18 2,473 1,941 Current tax liabilities 283 381 Provisions 22 98 62 4,807 3,199 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments 21 175 Borrowings 20 5,632 2,525 Trade and other payables 18 63 53 Deferred tax liabilities 19 1,412 188 Provisions 22 1,088 927 8,370 3,693 Total liabilities 13,177 6,892 Net assets 13,599 8,755 Equity Share capital 23 158 135 Share premium 24 6,099 2,010 Merger relief reserve 24 3,395 3,395 Other reserves 24 102 207 Retained earnings 24 3,291 2,330 Total shareholders equity 13,045 8,077 Minority interests in equity 24 554 678 Total equity 13,599 8,755 The balance sheets of SABMiller plc are shown on page 135.
The notes on pages 64 to133 form part of the financial statements.
The financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 5 June 2006 and were signed on its behalf by: Graham Mackay Malcolm Wyman 61 Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Consolidated cash flow statements for the years ended 31 March 2006 2005 Notes US$m US$m Cash flows from operating activities Net cash generated from operations 25a 3,291 2,792 Interest received 80 94 Interest paid 401 228 Interest element of finance lease rental payments 2 Tax paid 869 625 Net cash from operating activities 2,101 2,031 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 999 756 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 48 30 Purchase of intangible assets 33 12 Purchase of investments 7 19 Proceeds from sale of investments 5 475 Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired 717 23 Purchase of shares from minorities 2,048 793 Purchase of shares in associates 1 13 Funding to associates 68 Repayment of funding by associates 122 Dividends received from associates 71 47 Dividends received from other investments 2 10 Net cash used in investing activities 3,557 1,122 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from the issue of shares 30 38 Proceeds from the issue of shares to minorities 1 Purchase of own shares for share trusts 8 21 Proceeds from borrowings 25b 3,002 540 Repayment of borrowings 25b 900 632 Capital element of finance lease payments 25b 28 25 Increase in loan participation deposit 25b 196 Dividends paid to shareholders of the parent 520 412 Dividends paid to minority interests 167 172 Net cash generated used in financing activities 1,213 683 Net cash from operating, investing and financing activities 243 226 Effects of exchange rate changes 11 56 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 25b 232 170 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April 25b 630 460 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 25b 398 630 62 Consolidated statements of total recognised income and expense for the years ended 31 March 2006 2005 US$m US$m Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments 128 220 Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit plans 42 210 Tax on items taken directly to equity 17 83 Net investment hedges 2 Net losses gains recognised directly in equity 105 93 Profit for the year 1,674 1,729 Total recognised income for the year 1,569 1,822 attributable to equity shareholders 1,360 1,601 attributable to minority interests 209 221 2006 US$m Effect of changes in accounting policy adoption of IAS 32 and 39 : attributable to equity shareholders 5 attributable to minority interests 5 The US$5 million credit for the change in accounting policy relates to the retained earnings reserve.
63 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the groups financial statements are set out below, together with the decisions made by the group as part of its transition to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of SABMiller plc have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act, 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
All International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the IASB and effective at the time of preparing these consolidated financial statements have been adopted for use in the EU through the endorsement procedure established by the European Commission, with the exception of the International Accounting Standard IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Following the Accounting Regulatory Committee decision of October 2004, the Commission adopted the Regulation 2086 2004 requiring the use of IAS 39, minus certain provisions on the full fair value option and portfolio hedging of core deposits, by all listed companies from 1 January 2005.
Reconciliations of the companys equity as of 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 and results for the year ended 31 March 2005 reported under UK GAAP to International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European Union are included in Note 30.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as described in the accounting policies below.
IFRS 1 First-time adoption of IFRS permits certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS to companies adopting IFRS for the first time.
The group has elected to take the following permitted exemptions: i Business combinations including acquisitions before the date of transition have not been restated.
The net book value of goodwill as at the transition date has been restated as deemed cost of goodwill under IFRS.
ii Non-current assets held at historical cost have not been revalued: therefore depreciation and impairment tests will continue to be based on historical cost.
iii IAS 32 and IAS 39 have been applied with effect from 1 April 2005, therefore hedge documentation and effectiveness is measured from that date.
iv Cumulative currency translation differences on foreign net investments recognised separately in equity have been reset to US$Nil at the date of transition.
v The cost of share options granted prior to 7 November 2002 has not been recognised in the income statement.
vi The accumulated actuarial gains and losses with regard to employee defined benefit post-retirement plans have been recognised in full in the opening IFRS balance sheet as at 1 April 2004. vii Convertible bonds have not been split into component values if the bond has been repaid by the transition date for financial instruments, which was 1 April 2005.
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the groups accounting policies.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Recent accounting developments IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, effective from 1 January 2007, introduces new disclosures to improve the information about financial instruments.
It requires the disclosures of qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments, including specified minimum disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including sensitivity analysis to market risk.
It replaces disclosure requirements in IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
The group will apply IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 from annual periods beginning 1 April 2007, and it is not expected to have a material effect on the groups disclosures.
IFRIC 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, effective from 1 January 2006, requires the determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease to be based on the substance of the arrangement.
The adoption is not expected to have a material effect on the consolidated results of operations or financial position of the group.
IFRIC 7, Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies effective for periods beginning 1 March 2006 provides guidance on how to apply the requirements of IAS 29 in a reporting period in which an entity identifies the existence of hyperinflation in the economy when that economy was not hyperinflationary in the prior period.
c. Significant judgements In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often required where the choice of specific policy, assumption or accounting estimate to be followed could materially affect the reported results or net position of the group, should it later be determined that a different choice be more appropriate.
Management considers the following to be areas of significant judgement for the group: i Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill and intangible assets are performed at least annually.
More regular reviews are performed if events indicate that this is necessary.
Details of the assumptions used are set out in note 10. ii The determination of the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and related depreciation: capitalisation of costs, estimation of useful economic life and recoverability of such assets.
The estimates in relation to these items are set out in part i to this note.
iii The group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority.
iv Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in order to value our obligations and to determine the charges to be made to the income statement.
Details of the assumptions used are set out in note 28. v The determination of the carrying amount and estimated useful lives of intangible assets acquired in a business combination.
Accounting policies continued d. Segmental reporting A reportable segment is a distinguishable business or geographical component of the group that provides products or services that are different from those of other segments.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
The groups primary segmental analyses are in accordance with the basis on which the businesses are managed and according to the differing risk and reward profiles.
The group presents its geographic analysis as its primary segmentation.
The group presents its product analysis as its secondary segmentation.
This is analysed between secondary segments of Beer, Soft drinks and Other.
e. Basis of consolidation SABMiller plc the company is a public limited company incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements include the financial information of the subsidiary and associated entities owned by the company.
i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the company, where control is the power to govern, directly or indirectly, the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities, regardless of whether this power is actually exercised.
Where the companys interest in subsidiaries is less than 100%, the share attributable to outside shareholders is reflected in minority interests.
Subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date control commences until the date control ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Some of the companys subsidiaries have a local statutory accounting reference date of 31 December.
These are consolidated using management prepared information on a basis coterminous with the companys accounting reference date.
ii Associates Associates are entities in which the group has a long-term interest and over which the group has significant influence, whether direct or indirect, where significant influence is the ability to influence the financial and operating policies of the entity.
The associate, Distell Group Ltd, has a statutory accounting reference date of 30 June.
In respect of each year ending 31 March, this company is included based on financial statements drawn up to the previous 31 December, but taking into account any changes in the subsequent period from 1 January to 31 March that would materially affect the results.
All other associates are included on a coterminous basis.
f. Foreign exchange i Foreign exchange translation Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars which is the groups presentational currency.
The exchange rate of SA rand to US dollar used in preparing the consolidated financial statements was as follows: Weighted Closing average rate rate Year ended 31 March 2005 6.22 6.26 Year ended 31 March 2006 6.41 6.20 The weighted average exchange rates have been calculated based on the average of the exchange rates during the relevant year and weighted according to the revenue of the groups businesses.
ii Transactions and balances The financial statements for each group company have been prepared on the basis that transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in their functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date with the resultant translation differences being included in operating profit in the income statement other than those arising on financial liabilities which are recorded within net finance costs and those which are deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary assets such as equity investments classified as available for sale assets are included in equity.
iii Overseas subsidiaries and associates One-off items in the income and cash flow statements of overseas subsidiaries and associates expressed in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at the rates of exchange prevailing on the day of the transaction.
All other items are translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the relevant reporting period.
Assets and liabilities of these undertakings are translated at closing rates of exchange at each balance sheet date.
All translation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets together with differences between income statements translated at average and closing rates are recognised as a separate component of equity.
For these purposes net assets include loans between group companies that form part of the net investment, for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future and is either denominated in the functional currency of the parent or the foreign entity.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, any related exchange differences in equity are recycled through the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
65 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued g. Business combinations i Subsidiaries The purchase method is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The identifiable net assets including intangibles, are incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair value to the group from the effective date of control, and the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the financial year are included in the groups results from that date.
Control is presumed to exist when the group owns, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power of an entity unless, in exceptional circumstances, it can be clearly demonstrated that such ownership does not constitute control.
Control also exists where the group has the ability to direct or dominate decision-making in an entity, regardless of whether this power is actually exercised.
On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Fair values of these assets and liabilities are determined by reference to market values, where available, or by reference to the current price at which similar assets could be acquired or similar obligations entered into, or by discounting expected future cash flows to present value, using either market rates or the risk-free rates and risk-adjusted expected future cash flows.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of the acquisition plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
It also includes the groups estimate of any deferred consideration payable.
Where the business combination agreement provides for an adjustment to the cost that is contingent on future events, contingent consideration is included in the cost of an acquisition if the adjustment is probable that is, more likely than not and can be measured reliably.
The difference between the costs of acquisition and the share of the net assets acquired is capitalised as goodwill.
Where the group purchases additional shares in subsidiaries such purchases are reflected as separate acquisition processes and no revised fair valuation is required.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a previously acquired business, the results of the business are included in the groups results up to the effective date of disposal.
The profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging or crediting the amount of any related goodwill to the extent that it has not previously been taken to the income statement.
ii Associates The groups share of the recognised income and expenses of associates are accounted for using the equity method from the date significant influence commences to the date it ceases, based on present ownership interests.
The date significant influence commences is not necessarily the same as the closing date or any other date named in the contract.
The group recognises its share of associates results as a one line entry before tax in the income statement, after taking account of the share of interest, tax and minority interests.
When the groups interest in an associate has been reduced to nil because the groups share of losses exceeds its interest in the associate, the group only provides for additional losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to fund such losses, or make payments on behalf of the associate.
Where the disposal of an investment in an associate is considered highly probable that is, significantly more likely than probable, the investment ceases to be equity accounted and, instead, is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to dispose.
iii Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the costs of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Where the fair value of the groups share of identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the fair value of the consideration, the difference is recorded as negative goodwill.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment losses and is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
Any impairment identified is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not reversed.
The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates is included in the carrying value of the investment in the associate.
Where a business combination occurs in several stages, the goodwill associated with each stage is calculated using fair value information at the date of each additional share purchase.
h. Intangible assets Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation on a straight-line basis if applicable and impairment losses.
Cost is usually determined as the amount paid by the group, unless the asset has been acquired as part of a business combination.
Amortisation is included within net operating expenses in the income statement.
Internally generated intangibles are not recognised except for applied development costs referred to under research and development below.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives, and only tested for impairment where there is a triggering event.
The directors assessment of the useful life of intangible assets is based on the nature of the asset acquired, the durability of the products to which the asset attaches and the expected future impact of competition on the business.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised separately when they are identifiable, it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the group and the fair value can be measured reliably.
i Trademarks recognised as part of a business combination Trademarks are recognised as an intangible asset where the trademark has a long-term value.
Acquired trademarks are only recognised where title is clear or the trademark could be sold separately from the rest of the business and the earnings attributable to it are separately identifiable.
The group typically arrives at the cost of such trademarks on a relief from royalty basis.
Where the acquired trademark is seen as having a finite useful economic life, it is subject to amortisation, which in respect of trademarks currently held is 10-40 years, being the period for which the group has exclusive rights to those trademarks.
Accounting policies continued ii Contract brewing and other licences recognised as part of a business combination Contractual arrangements for contract brewing and competitor licensing arrangements are recognised as an intangible asset at a fair value representing the remaining contractual period with an assumption about the expectation that such a contract will be renewed, together with a valuation of this extension.
Contractual arrangements and relationships with customers and distributors are also valued on a similar basis.
Where the acquired licence or contract is seen as having a finite useful economic life, it is subject to amortisation, which is the period for which the group has exclusive rights to these assets or income streams.
iii Customer lists and relationships recognised as part of a business combination The fair value of businesses acquired may include customer lists and relationships.
These are recognised as intangible assets and are calculated by discounting the future revenue stream attributable to these lists or relationships.
Where the acquired asset is seen as having a finite useful economic life, it is subject to amortisation over the period for which the group has the benefit of these assets.
iv Software Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of property, plant and equipment, the software is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring them to use.
Direct costs associated with the production of identifiable and unique internally generated software products controlled by the group that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year are capitalised.
Direct costs include software development employment costs including those of contractors used and an appropriate portion of overheads.
Capitalised computer software, licence and development costs are amortised over their useful economic lives of between three and five years.
Internally generated costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are expensed as incurred.
v Research and development Research and general development expenditure is written off in the period in which it is incurred.
Certain applied development costs are only capitalised as internally generated intangible assets where there is a clearly defined project, separately identifiable expenditure, an outcome assessed with reasonable certainty in terms of feasibility and commerciality, future costs exceed expected revenue and the group has the resources to complete the task.
Such assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying value or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the specific asset will flow to the group and the cost can be measured reliably.
Repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
i Land and buildings Land and buildings have been included at their cost as permitted by IFRS 1.
Cost represents the carrying value of land and buildings as at the transition date to IFRS, being 1 April 2004. ii Assets in the course of construction Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and for qualifying assets certain borrowing costs as determined below.
Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
iii Assets held under finance leases Assets held under finance leases which result in the group bearing substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, then depreciated over their useful lives.
The capital element of future obligations under the leases is included as a liability in the balance sheet classified, as appropriate, as a current or non-current liability.
The interest element of the lease obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each financial period.
iv Containers Containers in circulation are recorded within property, plant and equipment at cost net of accumulated depreciation less any impairment loss.
Depreciation of returnable bottles and containers is recorded to write the containers off over the course of their economic life.
This is typically undertaken in a two stage process: The excess over deposit value is written down over a period of 1-3 years.
Provisions are made against the deposit values for breakages and loss in trade together with a design obsolescence provision held to write off the deposit value over the expected bottle design period which is a period of no more than 10 years from the inception of a bottle design.
This period is shortened where appropriate by reference to market dynamics and the ability of the entity to use bottles for different brands.
67 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued v Depreciation No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets in the course of construction.
In respect of all other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to write off the cost, less the estimated residual value of each asset over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold buildings 20-50 years Leasehold buildings Shorter of the lease term or 50 years Plant, vehicles and systems 2-30 years Containers, including returnable containers 1-10 years Assets held under finance leases Lower of the lease term or useful life of the asset The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual values to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the group takes into account are the expected rate of technological developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used.
The profit or loss on the disposal of an asset is the difference between the disposal proceeds and the net book amount of the asset.
vi Capitalisation of borrowing costs Direct financing costs incurred, before tax, on major capital projects during the period of development or construction that necessarily take a substantial period of time to be developed for their intended use are capitalised up to the time of completion of the project.
Advance payments made to customers principally hotels, restaurants, bars and clubs Advance payments made to customers are conditional on the achievement of contracted sales targets or marketing commitments.
The group records such payments as prepayments initially at fair value and are amortised in the income statement over the relevant period to which the customer commitment is made typically 3-5 years.
These prepayments are recorded net of any impairment losses.
Where there is a volume target the amortised cost of the advance is included in sales discounts as a reduction to revenue and where there are specific marketing activities commitments the cost is included as an operating expense.
The amounts capitalised are reassessed annually for achievement of targets and are written down if there are impairment concerns.
Assets held at customer premises are included within property, plant and equipment and are depreciated in line with group policies on similar assets.
k. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, and net realisable value, as follows: Raw materials, consumables and goods for resale: Purchase cost net of discounts and rebates on a first-in first-out basis FIFO.
Finished goods and work in progress: Raw material cost plus direct costs and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses on a FIFO basis.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
l. Financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transactions costs where applicable.
For those financial assets that are not subsequently held at fair value, the group assesses whether there is any objective evidence of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are recognised when the group has rights or other access to economic benefits.
Such assets consist of cash, equity instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset, or a contractual right to exchange financial instruments with another entity on potentially favourable terms.
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the asset have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to transfer benefits and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver cash or another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments with another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is discharged, cancelled or expired.
If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised amounts of financial assets and liabilities, which are in determinable monetary amounts and the group intends to settle on a net basis, the relevant financial assets and liabilities are offset.
Interest costs are charged against income in the year in which they accrue.
Premiums or discounts arising from the difference between the net proceeds of financial instruments purchased or issued and the amounts receivable or repayable at maturity are included in the effective interest calculation and taken to net interest payable over the life of the instrument.
i Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the group may be unable to collect all amounts due according to the terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying value and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
This provision is recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities of greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Investments in this category are initially recognised at fair value including originating fees and transaction costs, and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
Accounting policies continued ii Available-for-sale investments Available-for-sale investments are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified as financial assets at fair value through the income statement, or loans and receivables.
Investments in this category are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
They are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently re-measured at fair value and tested for impairment.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value including any related foreign exchange movements are recognised in equity.
On disposal or impairment of availablefor-sale investments, any gains or losses in equity are recycled through the income statement.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the date on which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
iii Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank deposits repayable on demand, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
A loan participation deposit is shown as a current asset on the face of the balance sheet.
This deposit is included within net debt as it relates to certain borrowings which are also included in net debt.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities and are included within cash and cash equivalents on the face of the cash flow statement as they form an integral part of the groups cash management.
iv Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are financial instruments whose value changes in response to an underlying variable, require little or no initial investment and are settled in the future.
These include derivatives embedded in host contracts.
Such embedded derivatives need not be accounted for separately if the host contract is already fair valued: or if it can be demonstrated that it is closely related to the host contract.
There are certain exemptions which the group has applied to these rules which limit the need to account for certain potential embedded foreign exchange derivatives.
These are: if a contract is denominated in the functional currency of either party: where that currency is commonly used in international trade of the good traded: or if it is commonly used for local transactions in an economic environment.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are analysed between current and non-current assets and liabilities on the face of the balance sheet, depending on when they are expected to mature and whether they are deemed to be in a hedging relationship.
For derivatives that have not been designated to a hedging relationship, all fair value movements are recognised immediately in the income statement.
See note x for the groups accounting policy on hedge accounting.
v Trade payables Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Trade payables are analysed between current and non-current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet, depending on when the obligation to settle will be realised.
vi Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs and are subsequently stated at amortised cost and include accrued interest and prepaid interest.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
m. Impairment This policy covers all assets except inventories see note k, financial assets see note l, non-current assets classified as held for resale see note n, and deferred tax assets see note u. Impairment reviews are performed by comparing the carrying value of the non-current asset to its recoverable amount, being the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The fair value less costs to sell is considered to be the amount that could be obtained on disposal of the asset.
The value in use of the asset is determined by discounting, at a market based discount rate, the expected future cash flows resulting from its continued use, including those arising from its final disposal.
When the carrying values of non-current assets are written down by any impairment amount, the loss is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from the cash flows of other assets the group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit CGU to which the assets belongs.
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, CGUs are considered to be groups of assets and liabilities that have separately identifiable cash flows.
They also include those assets and liabilities directly involved in producing the income and a suitable proportion of those used to produce more than one income stream.
When an impairment is recognised, the impairment loss is held firstly against any specifically impaired assets of the CGU, then taken against goodwill balances and if there is a remaining loss it is set against the remaining intangible and tangible assets on a pro-rata basis.
Should circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal of a previous impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it occurs and the carrying value of the asset is increased.
The increase in the carrying value of the asset is restricted to the amount that it would have been had the original impairment not occurred.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are irreversible.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
Assets subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment if circumstances or events change to indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
69 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued n. Non-current assets held for resale Non-current assets and all assets and liabilities classified as held for resale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Such assets are classified as held for resale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continued use.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is highly probable, the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition and when management is committed to the sale which is expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from date of classification.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation, whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Such provisions are calculated on a discounted basis where the effect is material to the original undiscounted provision.
The carrying amount of the provision increases in each period to reflect the passage of time and the unwinding of the discount and the movement is recognised in the income statement within interest costs.
Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination payments.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses, however, provisions are recognised for onerous contracts where the unavoidable cost exceeds the expected benefit.
p. Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
The convertible participating shares and the non-voting convertible shares are also classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options, or for the acquisition of a business, are included in the share premium account.
Investments in own shares and those shares held by employee benefit trusts Shares held by employee share ownership plans and employee benefit trusts are treated as a deduction from equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued, or disposed of.
The SABMiller plc shares held by Safari Ltd, a special purpose vehicle, are classified similarly.
Purchases of such shares are classified in the cash flow statement as a net purchase of own shares for share trusts within net cash from financing activities.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental costs and related tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the companys equity shareholders.
r. Revenue recognition i Sale of goods and services Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or receivable for goods and services provided to third parties and is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are substantially transferred.
The group presents revenue gross of excise duties because unlike value added tax, excise is not directly related to the value of sales.
It is not generally recognised as a separate item on invoices, increases in excise are not always directly passed on to customers, and the group cannot reclaim the excise where customers do not pay for product received.
The group therefore considers excise as a cost to the group and reflects it as a production cost.
Consequently any excise that is recovered in the sale price is included in revenue.
Revenue excludes value added tax.
It is stated net of price discounts, promotional discounts and after an appropriate amount has been provided to cover the sales value of credit notes yet to be issued that relate to the current and prior periods.
The same recognition criteria also apply to the sale of by-products and waste such as spent grain, malt dust and yeast with the exception that these are included within other income.
ii Interest income Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired the group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount by discounting the estimated future cash flows at the original effective interest rate, and continuing to unwind the discount as interest income.
iii Royalty income Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the relevant agreements and is included in other income.
iv Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
s. Operating leases Rentals paid and incentives received on operating leases are charged or credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
t. Exceptional items Where certain expense or revenue items recorded in a period are material by their size or incidence, the group reflects such items as exceptional items within a separate line on the income statement except for those exceptional items that relate to associates, interest and tax.
Associates, interest and tax exceptional items are only referred to in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Exceptional items are also summarised by class in the segmental analyses, excluding those that relate to interest and tax.
Where certain income statement items incurred are of a capital nature or are considered material and non-recurring, the group proposes to continue to present alternative earnings per share calculations both on a headline under the IIMR definition as described in note 8 and on an adjusted basis.
Taxation The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is also recognised in equity.
Current tax expense is based on the results for the period as adjusted for items that are not taxable or not deductible.
The groups liability for current taxation is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method, in respect of all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements, except where the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of an asset is greater than its tax base, or where the carrying value of a liability is less than its tax base.
Deferred tax is recognised in full on temporary differences arising from investment in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
This includes taxation in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in future periods has been entered into by the subsidiary.
Deferred income tax is also recognised in respect of the unremitted retained earnings of overseas associates as the group is not able to determine when such earnings will be remitted and when such additional tax such as withholding taxes might be payable.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences including carried forward tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
v. Dividend distributions Dividend distributions to equity holders of the parent are recognised as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised, as there is no present obligation at the balance sheet date.
w. Employee benefits i Wages and salaries Wages and salaries for current employees are recognised in the income statement as the employees services are rendered.
ii Vacation and long-term service awards costs The group recognises a liability and an expense for accrued vacation pay when such benefits are earned and not when these benefits are paid.
The group also recognises a liability and an expense for long-term service awards where cash is paid to the employee at certain milestone dates in a career with the group.
Such accruals are appropriately discounted to reflect the future payment dates at discount rates determined by reference to local high-quality corporate bonds.
iii Profit-sharing and bonus plans The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit attributable to the companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
At a mid-year point an accrual is maintained for the appropriate proportion of the expected bonuses which would become payable at the year end.
iv Share-based compensation The group operates a variety of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
These comprise share option plans with and without non-market performance conditions attached and a performance share award scheme with market conditions attached.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award granted after 7 November 2002 over the vesting period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
This expense is offset by a corresponding adjustment made to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
The charge is based on the fair value of the award as at the date of grant, as calculated by various binomial model calculations or Monte Carlo simulations.
The charge is not reversed if the options are not exercised because the market value of the shares is lower than the option price at the date of grant.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
v Pension obligations The group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for any actuarial gains or losses and unrecognised past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
71 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full as they arise outside of income statement and are presented in the statement of recognised income and expense, with the exception of gains or losses arising from changes in the benefits regarding past services, which are recognised in the income statement.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense as the costs become payable.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
vi Other post-employment obligations Some group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to qualifying employees.
The expected costs of these benefits are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries and contributions are made to the relevant funds over the expected service lives of the employees entitled to those funds.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are charged or credited to the income statement over the expected average remaining working lives of the related employees.
These obligations are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
vii Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal, or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after balance sheet date are discounted to present value in a similar manner to all long-term employee benefits.
Derivative financial instruments The derivative instruments used by the group, which are used solely for hedging purposes i. e. to manage foreign exchange and interest rate risks, comprise interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Such derivative instruments are used to alter the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the group in line with the groups risk management policies see note 21.
The group also has derivatives embedded in other contracts primarily cross border foreign currency supply contracts for raw materials.
Accounting policy under UK GAAP prior to 31 March 2005 Interest rate differentials under swap arrangements and forward rate agreements used to manage interest rate exposures are recognised by adjustment to net finance charges.
Premiums or discounts arising on the purchase of derivative financial instruments are amortised over the shorter of the life of the instrument and the underlying exposure.
Currency swap agreements and forward foreign currency exchange contracts are valued at closing rates of exchange.
Resulting gains and losses are offset against foreign exchange gains or losses on the related borrowings or, where the instrument is used to hedge a committed future transaction, are deferred until the transaction occurs and shown within receivables or payables as appropriate.
Where the instrument ceases to meet the criteria of being a hedge transaction or the underlying exposure which it is hedging is sold, matures or is extinguished, then the instrument is valued at the appropriate market rate, after having taken account of selling costs.
Any resultant gains or losses are reflected in operating income.
Accounting policy under IFRS since 1 April 2005 In accordance with the exemption available in IFRS 1, the group has adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 1 April 2005.
As a result, the group is required to recognise transitional adjustments as set out in IFRS 1 for financial instruments, including designated hedging relationships, in accordance with the measurement requirements of IAS 39 at 1 April 2005.
The accounting policy is as follows: Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the hedging relationship.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to document prospectively the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument.
The group is also required to document and demonstrate that the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument will be highly effective.
This effectiveness test is re-performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge has remained and will continue to remain highly effective.
The group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or firm commitments for foreign exchange risks cash flow hedge : or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
i Fair value hedges Fair value hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated in a hedging relationship to manage the groups interest rate risk to which the fair value of certain assets and liabilities are exposed.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative offset the relevant changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item attributable to the hedged risk in the income statement in the period incurred.
Gains or losses on fair value hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recorded in the income statement together with the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
Accounting policies continued ii Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated in a hedging relationship to manage currency risk to which the cash flows of certain liabilities are exposed.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative that is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting is recognised in equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
However, where a forecasted transaction results in a non-financial asset or liability, the accumulated fair value movements previously deferred in equity are included in the initial cost of the asset or liability.
iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Hedges of net investments in foreign operations comprise either foreign currency borrowings or derivatives typically forward exchange contracts designated in a hedging relationship.
Gains or losses on hedging instruments that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity.
These largely offset foreign currency gains or losses arising on the translation of net investments that are recorded in equity, in the foreign currency translation reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains or losses on hedging instruments is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are only recycled to the income statement upon disposal of the net investment.
Where a derivative ceases to meet the criteria of being a hedging instrument or the underlying exposure which it is hedging is sold, matures or is extinguished, hedge accounting is discontinued.
A similar treatment is applied where the hedge is of a future transaction and that transaction is no longer likely to occur.
Certain derivative instruments, whilst providing effective economic hedges under the groups policies, are not designated as hedges.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify or have not been designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The impact of applying this new accounting policy is as follows: Fair value hedges At 1 April 2005, the group recognised additional non-current derivative assets of US$3 million, additional non-current derivative liabilities of US$5 million and a decrease in non-current borrowings of US$2 million in respect of financial instruments used to hedge the groups interest rate risk.
These adjustments had no impact on deferred tax.
Cash flow hedges At 1 April 2005, the group recognised additional non-current derivative assets of US$14 million and a decrease in non-current trade and other receivables of US$14 million in respect of financial instruments used to hedge the groups foreign currency exposure.
Embedded derivatives At 1 April 2005, the group recognised additional current derivative assets of US$5 million and an increase in equity of US$5 million in respect of embedded derivatives relating to the groups malt and barley contracts US$4 million, and foreign exchange contracts US$1 million.
Balance sheet classification At 1 April 2005, the reclassification of interest accruals and prepayments resulted in a US$2 million decrease in current trade and other receivables, a US$29 million decrease in current trade and other payables, a US$1 million decrease in current borrowings and a US$28 million increase in non-current borrowings.
The net impact on the groups gross borrowings at 1 April 2005 was an increase of US$27 million.
Under UK GAAP, minority equity investments and other loans were classified as other investments on the face of the balance sheet.
Upon adoption of IAS 32 IAS 39, this category has been renamed available for sale investments and loans and receivables of US$20 million were reclassified as trade and other receivables.
The change in accounting policy resulted in a net increase in total equity at 1 April 2005 of US$5 million.
Deposits by customers Bottles and containers in circulation are recorded within property, plant and equipment and a corresponding liability is recorded in respect of the obligation to repay the customers deposits.
Deposits paid by customers for branded returnable containers are reflected in the balance sheet within current liabilities.
Any estimated liabilities that may arise in respect of deposits for unbranded containers and bottles are shown in provisions.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent entity, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary shares held in the groups employee benefit trust during the year.
Diluted earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary shares held in the groups employee benefit trust during the year, plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting from share options and other potential ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segmental analysis Primary reporting format Geographical Segments Income Statement Share of postShare of postSegment Segment tax results of Segment Segment tax results of revenue result associates Total revenue result associates Total 2006 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 2005 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m North America 4,912 454 454 4,892 598 598 Latin America 2,153 376 376 521 90 90 Europe 3,258 567 567 2,909 431 431 Africa and Asia 1,203 257 104 361 1,003 352 79 431 South Africa 3,781 1,011 73 1,084 3,576 906 69 975 Corporate 90 90 170 170 Group 15,307 2,575 177 2,752 12,901 2,547 148 2,695 Net finance costs 299 143 Profit before tax 2,453 2,552 Taxation 779 823 Profit for the year 1,674 1,729 Voluntary Income Statement disclosures for the primary reporting format Alternative performance measures have been provided below on a segmental basis since the directors believe that they give a useful additional indication of underlying performance.
Group revenue including associates Share of Group revenue Share of Group revenue Segment associates including Segment associates including revenue revenue associates revenue revenue associates 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m North America 4,912 4,912 4,892 4,892 Latin America 2,153 12 2,165 521 521 Europe 3,258 3,258 2,909 2,909 Africa and Asia 1,203 1,018 2,221 1,003 934 1,937 South Africa: Beverages 3,781 423 4,204 3,576 419 3,995 Hotels and Gaming 321 321 289 289 South Africa Total 3,781 744 4,525 3,576 708 4,284 Group 15,307 1,774 17,081 12,901 1,642 14,543 Operating profit before exceptional items Operating Operating Operating profit before Operating profit before profit Exceptional exceptional profit Exceptional exceptional segment result items items segment result items items 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m North America 454 454 598 111 487 Latin America 376 11 387 90 90 Europe 567 567 431 51 482 Africa and Asia 257 257 352 103 249 South Africa: Beverages 1,011 1,011 906 906 Corporate 90 4 86 170 252 82 Group 2,575 15 2,590 2,547 415 2,132 74 2.
Segmental analysis continued EBITA This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets excluding software and includes the groups share of associates operating profit on a similar basis.
Share of Share of associates Amortisation associates Amortisation Operating operating of intangible Operating operating of intangible profit before profit before assets profit before profit before assets exceptional exceptional excluding exceptional exceptional excluding items items software EBITA items items software EBITA 2006 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 2005 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m North America 454 454 487 487 Latin America 387 49 436 90 90 Europe 567 2 569 482 482 Africa and Asia 257 164 1 422 249 134 383 South Africa: Beverages 1,011 51 1,062 906 50 956 Hotels and Gaming 84 84 73 73 South Africa Total 1,011 135 1,146 906 123 1,029 Corporate 86 86 82 82 Group 2,590 299 52 2,941 2,132 257 2,389 The groups share of associates operating profit is reconciled to the share of post-tax results of associates in the income statement as follows: 2006 2005 US$m US$m Share of associates operating profit before exceptional items 299 257 Share of associates exceptional items 7 Share of associates finance costs 16 24 Share of associates taxation 81 74 Share of associates minority interests 25 18 Share of post-tax results of associates 177 148 EBITDA a reconciliation of group EBITDA after cash exceptional items to cash generated from operations can be found in note 25a This comprises net cash generated from operations before working capital movements and after operating cash exceptional items.
EBITDA EBITDA before cash Cash before cash Cash exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional items items EBITDA items items EBITDA 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m North America 591 591 634 4 638 Latin America 574 4 570 129 129 Europe 733 733 649 5 644 Africa and Asia 321 321 293 293 South Africa: Beverages 1,205 1,205 1,101 1,101 Corporate 68 4 72 69 69 Group 3,356 8 3,348 2,737 1 2,736 75 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segmental analysis continued Balance Sheet Total Assets Segment Investment in Current and Segment Investment in Current and assets associates deferred tax Total assets assets associates deferred tax Total assets 2006 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 2005 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m North America 5,732 5,732 5,819 5,819 Latin America 11,815 7 11,822 1,081 1,081 Europe 3,582 3,582 3,444 3,444 Africa and Asia 1,218 721 1,939 807 692 1,499 South Africa 2,331 339 2,670 2,206 424 2,630 Corporate 699 699 965 965 Unallocated assets 332 332 209 209 Group 25,377 1,067 332 26,776 14,322 1,116 209 15,647 Total Liabilities Segment Unallocated Total Segment Unallocated Total liabilities liabilities liabilities liabiliities liabilities liabilities 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m North America 1,303 1,303 1,344 1,344 Latin America 797 797 91 91 Europe 644 644 607 607 Africa and Asia 190 190 162 162 South Africa 607 607 590 590 Corporate 184 184 189 189 Unallocated liabilities 9,452 9,452 3,909 3,909 Group 3,725 9,452 13,177 2,983 3,909 6,892 Other segmental information Depreciation and Impairment losses amortisation Other non-cash items recognised 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m North America 132 128 4 97 6 Latin America 177 34 15 4 2 1 Europe 159 164 2 46 10 3 Africa and Asia 49 37 6 100 5 3 South Africa 136 139 58 54 1 2 Corporate 7 9 13 245 1 1 Group 660 511 94 338 19 16 Capital expenditure Total capital excluding acquisitions Acquisition activity expenditure 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m North America 146 110 146 110 Latin America 161 38 5,473 5,634 38 Europe 279 326 21 24 300 350 Africa and Asia 110 72 107 217 72 South Africa 280 218 280 218 Corporate 44 9 44 9 Group 1,020 773 5,601 24 6,621 797 Capital expenditure includes acquisitions and additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
Revenue between segments is immaterial.
Capital expenditure includes acquisitions and additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
Net operating expenses 2006 2005 US$m US$m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense: 4,239 3,862 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 21 42 Raw materials and consumables used 4,260 3,820 Excise duties 2,929 2,295 Employee benefits costs see note 6a 1,723 1,426 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: 555 478 Owned assets 435 380 Under finance lease 9 16 Containers 111 82 Net profit on disposal of investments 359 Net profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 5 16 Amortisation of intangible assets: 105 33 Intangible assets excluding software 52 Software 53 33 Other expenses: 3,369 2,794 Selling, marketing and distribution costs 1,797 1,521 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 289 236 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 4 9 Impairment of trade receivables 15 7 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 27 23 Operating lease rentals plant, vehicle and systems 27 19 Restructuring costs 15 14 Research and development expenditure 8 7 Other operating expenses 1,187 958 Total net operating expenses by nature 12,915 10,545 Other income: 183 191 Revenue received from royalties 34 42 Dividends received from investments 3 10 Other operating income 146 139 Net operating expenses 12,732 10,354 Foreign exchange differences recognised in the profit for the year, except for those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value under IAS 39, were a loss of US$7 million 2005: gain of US$14 million.
Excise duties have been incurred as follows: North America US$879 million 2005: US$891 million : Latin America US$502 million 2005: US$58 million : Europe US$607 million 2005: US$523 million : Africa and Asia US$243 million 2005: US$168 million and South Africa US$698 million 2005: US$655 million.
77 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Net operating expenses continued The following fees were paid to a number of different accounting firms as auditors of various parts of the group: 2006 2005 US$m US$m Group auditors Auditors remuneration for audit and assurance related services statutory audit 8 6 Further assurance services 16 3 Tax services compliance services 1 tax advisory services 3 3 Other services 1 1 29 13 Included above are fees paid to the groups auditors in respect of non-audit services in the UK of US$17 million 2005: US$3 million of which US$12 million relates to due diligence and further assurance services in respect of the Bavaria transaction.
2006 2005 US$m US$m Other auditors Auditors remuneration for audit and assurance related services statutory audit 1 1 Further assurance services 6 2 Tax services tax advisory services 1 1 Other services IT consulting 1 other 15 4 23 9 78 4.
Exceptional items 2006 2005 US$m US$m Subsidiaries exceptional items included in operating profit: North America 111 Profit on disposal of Tumwater brewery 4 Reversal of provision for brewery closure costs in Tumwater 1 Miller integration and restructuring costs reversal of provision 2 Gain in relation to post-retirement plans 104 Latin America Bavaria integration and restructuring costs 11 Europe 51 Brewery closure costs in Italy 35 Restructuring costs in the Canary Islands 16 Africa and Asia Profit on disposal of investment 103 Corporate 4 252 Profit on disposal of investment 252 Bavaria integration costs 4 Exceptional items included within operating profit 15 415 Taxation credit charge 5 74 Minority interests share of the above items 8 Share of associates exceptional items Hotels and Gaming 7 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 11 Restructuring costs 4 Taxation credit 1 Exceptional items including share of associates exceptional items 15 422 2006 Latin America and Corporate Integration and restructuring costs associated with the consolidation of Bavaria of US$15 million were incurred during the year.
2005 North America In April 2004, the sale of the Tumwater brewery in North America was completed resulting in a profit on disposal of US$4 million.
During 2005, US$1 million of the Tumwater closure costs previously provided were deemed surplus and were credited to the income statement.
During 2005, US$2 million of the restructuring and integration costs provided in the prior year were deemed surplus and were credited to the income statement.
During 2005, post-retirement arrangements were changed and post-retirement medical healthcare liabilities were capped, which resulted in a gain of US$104 million being recorded in the income statement.
The related tax charge was US$41 million.
79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Exceptional items continued Europe Following the acquisition of S. p. A. Birra Peroni in 2004, an operating review resulted in an announcement in October 2004 of the closure of the Naples brewery at a total cost of US$35 million.
Property, plant and equipment were written down to net recoverable value, resulting in a charge of US$21 million.
In addition, the closure resulted in retrenchment costs of US$8 million, Nastro Azzurro re-branding costs of US$2 million and other exit costs of US$4 million.
In March 2005, a restructuring plan was announced for the Canary Islands.
A provision of US$16 million was charged to the income statement to cover the costs which primarily relate to severance.
Africa and Asia In June 2004, the group completed the disposal of its 29.4% interest in Harbin Brewery Group Limited Harbin, realising a profit on disposal of US$103 million.
Corporate In July 2004, the group disposed of its entire 21% interest in Edgars Consolidated Stores Ltd Edcon realising a profit on disposal of US$252 million.
The associated capital gains tax amounted to US$30 million.
South Africa: Hotels and Gaming In May 2004, Tsogo Sun Holdings Pty Ltd Tsogo Sun recorded an exceptional pre-tax profit on the sale of two Umhlanga Rocks hotels and land, of which the groups share amounted to US$11 million.
During 2005, US$4 million of costs were charged to the income statement in relation to restructuring in the hotels and gaming division.
Net finance costs 2006 2005 US$m US$m a.
Interest payable and similar charges Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 124 73 Interest payable on corporate bonds 225 150 Early redemption penalty in respect of private placement notes 13 Interest element of finance leases payments 1 2 Exchange loss on financing activities 3 6 Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments 3 Fair value losses on fair value hedges 1 Other finance charges 7 8 Total interest payable and similar charges 377 239 b.
Interest receivable Interest receivable 78 96 Total interest receivable 78 96 Net finance costs 299 143 80 6.
Employee and key management compensation costs a.
Employee costs 2006 2005 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 1,416 1,296 Share based payments 32 18 Social security costs 129 98 Other pension costs 96 9 Post-retirement benefits other than pensions 50 5 1,723 1,426 During 2005 the Miller Brewing Company effected changes for its post-retirement plans and capped its post-retirement medical healthcare liabilities which resulted in an exceptional credit to the income statement of US$104 million see note 4. b.
Employee numbers The average monthly number of employees excluding employees of associated undertakings and including executive directors are shown on a full-time equivalent basis.
2006 2005 North America 5,887 5,760 Latin America 15,412 6,873 Europe 11,622 11,424 Africa and Asia 10,557 6,995 South Africa 10,078 9,616 Corporate 216 224 Group 53,772 40,892 c. Key management compensation The directors of the company and members of the executive committee excom are defined as key management.
At 31 March 2006 there were 22 key management personnel.
2006 2005 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 21 15 Post-employment benefits 2 1 Share-based payments 6 4 29 20 The key management figures given above include directors.
d. Directors 2006 2005 US$m US$m Aggregate emoluments 4,101,628 2005: 2,936,250 7 5 Aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options or vesting of share awards 6 Company contributions to money purchase schemes 420,000 2005: 355,500 1 1 14 6 At 31 March 2006, two directors 2005: two had retirement benefits accruing under money purchase pension schemes.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 56.
81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Taxation 2006 2005 US$m US$m Current taxation 701 681 Charge for the year UK corporation tax: US$29 million charge 2005: US$4 million charge 717 638 Adjustments in respect of prior years 16 43 Withholding taxes and other taxes 78 126 Total current taxation 779 807 Deferred taxation 16 Charge for the year UK corporation tax: US$6 million charge 2005: US$4 million credit 7 55 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5 39 Rate change 2 779 823 Tax on items charged to equity Deferred tax charge credit on defined pension and post-retirement medical schemes 17 83 Deferred tax credit on equity-settled share incentive plans 9 8 83 Total current tax 779 807 Total deferred tax 8 67 Total taxation income statement and equity 787 740 Effective tax rate before amortisation of intangible assets excluding software and exceptional items % 33.6 37.1 The effective tax rate is calculated including share of associates operating profit before exceptional items and share of associates tax before exceptional items.
This calculation is on a basis consistent with that used in prior years and is also consistent with other group operating metrics.
The 2005 effective tax rate before the South African secondary tax on companies STC charge of US$38 million on non-recurring dividends, which followed a restructuring of the groups holdings in South Africa, was 35.4%.
Tax rate reconciliation 2006 2005 US$m US$m Profit before taxation 2,453 2,552 Less: Share of post-tax results of associates 177 148 2,276 2,404 Tax charge at standard rate of 30% 683 721 Exempt income 18 14 Other incentive allowances 2 1 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 116 98 Deferred tax asset not recognised 3 28 Withholding taxes and other taxes 78 126 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 60 28 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 21 4 Disposal of investments gross of capital gains tax 111 Total income tax expense 779 823 82 8.
Earnings per share 2006 2005 US cents US cents Basic earnings per share 105.0 125.5 Diluted earnings per share 104.3 121.2 Headline earnings per share 108.3 95.3 Adjusted basic earnings per share 109.1 101.0 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 108.4 97.8 Adjusted comparable earnings per share 98.4 Comparative figure adjusted for conversion of convertible bonds.
The amounts are calculated as if the bonds had converted on 1 April 2004.
The weighted average number of shares was: 2006 2005 Millions of Millions of shares shares Ordinary shares 1,376 1,216 ESOP trust ordinary shares 4 4 Basic shares 1,372 1,212 Dilutive ordinary shares from share options 9 6 Dilutive ordinary shares from the guaranteed convertible bond 52 Diluted shares 1,381 1,270 The calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes 5,302,856 share options at 31 March 2006, which could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future, because they were antidilutive for the year since either the performance conditions attached to the options had not been met or because the exercise price of the options exceeded the fair value of the shares during the year.
225,629 share options were issued after 31 March 2006 and before the date of signing of these financial statements.
The calculation of prior year adjusted earnings on a comparable basis adjusts for the conversion of the US$600 million convertible bonds, as if the bonds had been converted on 1 April 2004.
The profit for the year ended 31 March 2005 after adjusting for the interest on the convertible bonds was US$1,243 million, and the weighted average number of shares was 1,263,672,981.
Adjusted and headline earnings The group has also presented an adjusted earnings per share figure to exclude the impact of amortisation of intangible assets excluding capitalised software and other non-recurring items for the years shown in the consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted earnings per share has been based on adjusted headline earnings for each financial year and on the same number of weighted average shares in issue as the basic earnings per share calculation.
Headline earnings per share has been calculated in accordance with the Institute of Investment Management and Research IIMR s Statement of Investment Practice No.
1 entitled The Definition of Headline Earnings.
The adjustments made to arrive at headline earnings and adjusted earnings are as follows: 2006 2005 US$m US$m Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,440 1,521 Early redemption penalty in respect of private placement notes 13 Loss on derivatives on capital items 5 Intangible amortisation excluding capitalised software 52 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 4 9 Profit loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and investments 5 16 Share of associates profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment South Africa: Hotels and Gaming 11 Brewery closure costs in Tumwater North America 1 Gain in relation to changes to post-retirement plans North America 104 Profit on sale of investments Africa and Asia, Corporate 355 Profit on disposal of Tumwater North America 4 Brewery closure costs in Italy Europe 21 Tax effects of the above items 19 71 Minority interests share of the above items 6 9 Headline earnings basic 1,484 1,154 Integration reorganisation costs net of tax effects 13 32 South African STC on non-recurring dividends 38 Adjusted earnings 1,497 1,224 This does not include all derivative movements but includes those in relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be applied.
83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Dividends 2006 2005 US$m US$m Equity 2005 Final dividend paid: 26.0 US cents 2004: 22.5 US cents per ordinary share 328 269 2006 Interim dividend paid: 13.0 US cents 2005: 12.0 US cents per ordinary share 192 144 520 413 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend of 31.0 US cents per share in respect of the financial year ending 31 March 2006, which will absorb an estimated US$464 million of shareholders funds.
The dividend will be paid on 4 August 2006 to shareholders registered on the London and Johannesburg Registers on 7 July 2006.
The total dividend per share for the year is 44.0 US cents 2005: 38.0 US cents.
Safari Ltd waived its rights to interim dividends of US$10 million 2005: US$9 million, and to the final dividend in respect of 2005 of US$20 million 2004: US$17 million.
Dividends amounting to US$24 million in respect of the proposed final dividend for 2006 have been deducted in arriving at the estimated amount of shareholders funds to be absorbed on the same basis.
The employee benefit trusts which hold shares for the various executive share incentive schemes have waived their rights to dividends.
Dividends are paid between group companies out of profits available for distribution subject to, amongst other things in the case of companies incorporated in Great Britain, the provisions of the companies Articles of Association and the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
There are restrictions over the distribution by a company incorporated in Great Britain of any profits which are not generated from external cash receipts as defined in Technical Release 7 03, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The final dividend of the company of US$328 million paid on 5 August 2005, relating to the year ended 31 March 2005 and the interim dividend of US$192 million paid on 19 December 2005, relating to the six months ended 30 September 2005, were paid out of profits available for distribution and the final dividend of the company of US$464 million to be paid on 4 August 2006, relating to the year ended 31 March 2006, will be paid out of profits available for distribution as at 31 March 2006.
Goodwill Total US$m Cost and net book amount At 1 April 2004 6,513 Exchange adjustments 130 Arising on increase in share of subsidiary undertakings 605 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 9 Adjustments to provisional fair values 76 At 31 March 2005 7,181 Exchange adjustments 76 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings see note 26 4,389 Arising on increase in share of subsidiary undertakings see note 26 1,052 Adjustments to provisional fair values 7 At 31 March 2006 12,539 2006 Goodwill arising on the consolidation of subsidiary undertakings principally arose due to the Bavaria transaction on 12 October 2005 which resulted in US$4,042 million of provisional goodwill and the consolidation of 99% of the brewing interests of the Shaw Wallace group in the India investment resulting in US$315 million of provisional goodwill.
Goodwill arising on increase in share of subsidiary undertakings principally arose on the acquisition of additional minority interests in Colombia and Peru which resulted in additional goodwill of US$942 million, and the acquisitions of the remaining minority interests in Bevco Central America and Plzensk y Prazdr oj a. s. Czech which resulted in additional goodwill of US$107 million.
2005 The goodwill arising from increases in shares of subsidiary undertakings was principally due to the acquisition of an additional 39.8% of S. p. A. Birra Peroni resulting in US$183 million of goodwill and the acquisition of the remaining 26.5% of Amalgamated Beverage Industries Ltd ABI resulting in US$419 million of goodwill.
Further acquisitions within Africa and Europe added an additional US$12 million of goodwill.
Goodwill continued Goodwill allocated by cash generating unit CGU is as follows: 2006 2005 US$m US$m North America 4,254 4,254 Latin America: Central America 829 761 Colombia 3,499 Peru 1,324 Other Latin America 135 Europe: Czech 767 748 Italy 419 451 Other Europe 98 65 Africa and Asia: India 313 Other Africa and Asia 130 140 South Africa 771 762 12,539 7,181 Assumptions The recoverable amount for a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The basis for the value-in-use calculations are cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering five-year periods.
The discount rate weighted average cost of capital is calculated using the Modigliani-Miller methodology, which reflects the groups debt cost after tax, returns from United States treasury bonds with maturity of 10 years, relevant individual country risk profiles and a SABMiller-specific beta.
The group applies post-tax discount rates to post-tax cash flows and this closely approximates to applying pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash flows.
The following table presents the discount rates used in the value-in-use calculations in each of the groups primary segments.
Ranges of post-tax discount Long-term rates growth rates North America 7.3% 1.0% Latin America 9.5%15.0% 2.0%9.0% Europe 7.5%9.5% 2.0%3.0% Africa and Asia 10.5%11.5% 3.0%4.0% South Africa 7.6% 3.0% 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Intangible assets Computer Brands software Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2004 5 163 168 Exchange adjustments 8 8 Additions separately acquired 1 12 13 Acquisitions through business combinations 6 6 Transfers from other assets 32 32 At 31 March 2005 12 215 227 Exchange adjustments 16 1 17 Additions separately acquired 28 2 30 Acquisitions through business combinations 3,519 3 10 3,532 Transfers from other assets 38 38 Write-offs 8 8 At 31 March 2006 3,515 275 12 3,802 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2004 5 69 74 Exchange adjustments 3 3 Amortisation 33 33 Impairments 5 5 At 31 March 2005 5 100 105 Amortisation 51 53 1 105 Write-offs 4 4 At 31 March 2006 56 149 1 206 Net book amount At 31 March 2005 7 115 122 At 31 March 2006 3,459 126 11 3,596 At 31 March 2006, significant individual brands included within the carrying value of intangible assets are the Aguila brand in Colombia US$1,446 million and the Cristal brand in Peru US$604 million which arose on the Bavaria transaction and are being amortised over 40 years from the date of the transaction.
The brands which arose on the Bavaria transaction were valued on a relief from royalty basis using the same post-tax discount rates and long-term growth rates as those applied to the goodwill impairment review see note 10.
These values are both provisional at 31 March 2006.
Property, plant and equipment Assets in Plant, course of Land and vehicles construction buildings and systems Containers Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2004 136 1,252 3,924 791 6,103 Exchange adjustments 11 80 205 42 338 Additions 479 27 146 108 760 Transfers to from other assets 23 15 6 32 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 7 10 1 18 Adjustments to provisional fair values 69 4 65 Disposals 17 139 21 177 Breakages and shrinkage 44 44 Transfers 397 41 306 50 Write-offs 1 7 19 27 At 31 March 2005 205 1,459 4,426 914 7,004 Exchange adjustments 2 31 70 6 109 Additions 543 19 240 188 990 Transfers to other assets 38 38 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 94 1,009 878 88 2,069 Disposals 30 100 25 155 Breakages and shrinkage 31 31 Transfers 579 103 422 54 Write-offs 1 64 65 At 31 March 2006 223 2,528 5,796 1,118 9,665 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2004 243 1,766 422 2,431 Exchange adjustments 22 110 27 159 Provided during the period 42 354 82 478 Disposals 4 111 16 131 Write-offs 6 12 18 Impairments 13 16 29 At 31 March 2005 316 2,129 503 2,948 Exchange adjustments 8 39 4 51 Provided during the period 50 394 111 555 Disposals 10 83 19 112 Breakages and shrinkage 3 3 Write-offs 1 15 16 Impairments 4 4 At 31 March 2006 347 2,405 573 3,325 Net book amount At 31 March 2005 205 1,143 2,297 411 4,056 At 31 March 2006 223 2,181 3,391 545 6,340 Included in land and buildings is freehold land with a cost of US$632 million 2005: US$154 million which is not depreciated.
Included in plant, vehicles and systems are the following amounts relating to assets held under finance leases: 2006 2005 US$m US$m Net book amount 37 35 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Property, plant and equipment continued Included in plant, vehicles and systems are the following amounts in respect of interest capitalised: 2006 2005 US$m US$m At beginning of year 18 17 Exchange adjustments 1 At end of year 18 18 Borrowings are secured by various of the groups property, plant and equipment with an aggregate net book value of US$150 million 2005: US$121 million.
Investments in associates A list of the groups significant investments in associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 31 to the accounts.
Investments Loans Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2004 Net assets 711 60 771 Goodwill 149 149 860 60 920 Movements during the year: Exchange adjustments 19 1 20 Additions 75 75 Dividends received 47 47 Share of results retained 148 148 At 31 March 2005 Net assets 831 61 892 Goodwill 224 224 1,055 61 1,116 Movements during the year: Exchange adjustments 35 1 36 Additions 1 1 Acquired as part of business combination 7 7 Repayment of loans and preference share capital 62 60 122 Share of results retained 177 177 Dividends received 71 71 Share of associates movements in reserves 5 5 At 31 March 2006 Net assets 849 849 Goodwill 218 218 1,067 1,067 2006 The associates acquired as part of a business combination include Arrendadora Centroamericana S. A. and Envases del Istmo S. A. which were acquired as part of the Bavaria transaction see note 26.
Tsogo Sun repaid loans and preference share capital during the year.
2005 Additions include additional funding to Algeria and Morocco of US$8 million and CR Snow of US$59 million.
Investments in associates continued The analysis of associated undertakings between listed and unlisted investments is shown below: 2006 2005 US$m US$m Listed 134 132 Unlisted 933 923 1,067 1,055 The market value of listed investments included above is: Distell 341 225 Summarised financial information for associates for total assets, total liabilities, revenue and profit or loss on a 100% basis is shown below: 2006 2005 US$m US$m Total assets 5,587 5,290 Total liabilities 1,388 1,544 Revenue 5,090 5,282 Net profit or loss 637 560 Delta Corporation Limited, an associated undertaking of the group which operates in Zimbabwe, is restricted from paying dividends or exporting capital due to foreign currency shortages, consequently the market value of Delta Corporation Limited has not been included above.
Some of the groups investments in associated undertakings which operate in African countries are also subject to local exchange control regulations.
These local exchange control regulations provide for restrictions on exporting capital from those countries, other than normal dividends.
Available for sale investments Investments US$m At 1 April 2004 284 Exchange adjustments 1 Additions 19 2 Disposals 117 At 31 March 2005 187 Adoption of IAS 32 39 20 At 1 April 2005 167 Exchange adjustments 1 Acquisitions 14 Additions 2 1 Transfer to a subsidiary undertaking 141 At 31 March 2006 41 All investments at 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 are unlisted.
1 As at 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005, certain legal issues in India relating to the ownership of the 50:50 interest with Shaw Wallace and Company Ltd Shaw Wallace were still being resolved and the investment was accounted for as a fixed asset investment.
On 27 May 2005 MBL Investments Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the group, acquired the Shaw Wallace Groups remaining 50% interest in the brewing operations taking the groups interest in the brewing operations to 99%.
The directors consider that this second transaction has been structured in such a way as to satisfactorily mitigate the issues relating to the ownership structure referred to above and the interest in the brewing operations has been consolidated as a subsidiary from 27 May 2005 see note 28.
2 In June 2004, the group disposed of its 29.4% interest in Harbin Brewery Group Ltd, realising a profit of US$103 million, which reduced the carrying value of investments by US$103 million.
In July 2004, the group disposed of its entire 21% interest in Edgars Consolidated Stores Ltd realising a pre-tax profit of US$252 million.
89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Inventories 2006 2005 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 478 323 Work in progress 102 71 Finished goods and goods for resale 301 233 881 627 The following amount of inventories are expected to be utilised after 12 months: 2006 2005 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 20 32 Borrowings are secured on inventories of the group totalling US$24 million 2005: US$Nil.
Trade and other receivables 2006 2005 US$m US$m Trade receivables 1,079 847 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 123 96 Trade receivables net 956 751 Amounts owed by associates trade 2 5 Other receivables 179 99 Prepayments and accrued income 168 151 1,305 1,006 Analysed as: Current: Trade receivables net 944 729 Amounts owed by associates trade 2 5 Other receivables 130 94 Prepayments and accrued income 142 124 1,218 952 Non-current: Trade receivables net 12 22 Other receivables 49 5 Prepayments and accrued income 26 27 87 54 Total trade and other receivables 1,305 1,006 All non-current receivables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the group has a large number of customers, which are internationally dispersed.
Cash and cash equivalents 2006 2005 US$m US$m Short-term deposits 64 689 Cash at bank and in hand 408 454 472 1,143 Cash and short-term deposits of US$96 million which are held in African countries including South Africa may be subject to local exchange control regulations.
Trade and other payables 2006 2005 US$m US$m Trade payables 724 661 Accruals 556 475 Deferred income 63 68 Containers in the hands of customers 258 226 Amounts owed to associates trade 20 15 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 39 17 Excise duty payable 238 169 VAT and other taxes payable 101 67 Other payables 537 296 2,536 1,994 Analysed as: Current: Trade payables 724 661 Accruals 556 475 Deferred income 18 19 Containers in the hands of customers 258 226 Amounts owed to associates trade 20 15 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 39 17 Excise duty payable 238 169 VAT and other taxes payable 101 67 Other payables 519 292 2,473 1,941 Non-current: Deferred income 45 49 Other payables 18 4 63 53 Total trade and other payables 2,536 1,994 19.
Deferred taxation The movement in the net deferred tax liability is shown below: 2006 2005 US$m US$m At the beginning of year 35 89 Acquisitions 1,097 Rate change 2 Exchange adjustments 6 13 Charged to income statement 2 16 Taken to equity: Actuarial valuations 17 83 Share based payments 9 At end of year 1,134 35 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Deferred taxation continued The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities after offsetting of balances as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Pensions and postretirement Other Fixed asset benefit timing allowances provisions Intangibles differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities: At 1 April 2005 218 4 26 188 Acquisition 93 1,134 17 1,244 Rate change 3 1 2 Exchange adjustments 1 6 1 6 Transfer from deferred tax assets 3 1 3 7 Credited charged to income statement 15 4 17 1 5 Other 1 1 At 31 March 2006 318 9 1,111 8 1,412 Pensions and postretirement Provisions Other Fixed asset benefit and Financial timing allowances provisions accruals instruments differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax assets: At 1 April 2005 278 299 100 32 153 Acquisition 184 29 15 177 110 147 Exchange adjustments 1 1 Transfer to deferred tax liabilities 3 1 3 7 Credited charged to income statement 60 10 24 11 42 7 Taken to equity: Actuarial valuations 17 17 Share based payments 9 9 At 31 March 2006 404 320 88 166 108 278 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset, the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
The deferred tax asset arises due to timing differences on provisions in Europe, Africa and Asia, North, South and Central America.
Given both recent and forecast trading, the directors are of the opinion that the level of profits in the foreseeable future is more likely than not to be sufficient to recover these assets.
Deferred tax liabilities of US$1,381 million 2005: US$106 million are expected to be settled after more than one year.
Deferred taxation continued 2006 2005 Unrecognised deferred tax assets US$m US$m Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: Tax losses 29 37 Tax credits 15 6 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 2 Share based payments 14 5 60 48 These deferred tax assets will not expire, with the exception of US$19 million tax losses which will expire in between three and five years.
There are no unrecognised deferred tax liabilities.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries.
A deferred tax liability of US$31 million 2005: US$19 million has been recognised in respect of unremitted profits of associates where a dividend policy is not in place.
Borrowings 2006 2005 Current US$m US$m Secured: 1 IPC 7.15% securitisation 184 Other secured loans 134 318 Unsecured: 2 US$500 million 8.875% Ordinary Bonds 144A due 2010 541 COP 64.9 billion DTF 2.60% Ordinary Bonds due 2007 29 COP 7.9 billion DTF 2.75% Ordinary Bonds due 2007 4 Other unsecured loans 720 285 Overdrafts 324 513 Obligations under finance leases 14 17 1,632 815 Total current borrowings 1,950 815 COP: Colombian peso.
DTF: Colombian average interest rate for free loan investments of the financial sector.
IPC: Consumer price index published by Departmento Administrativo Nacional fide Estadistica of Colombia for 31 March 2006 was 4.11%.
1 In October 2004, Bavaria signed a contract with two of its subsidiaries, Cervecera Leona S. A. Leona and Cervecera Union S. A. Cervunion, for the sale and provision of malt.
Under the terms of the contract, Bavaria will sell malt to Leona and Cervunion for a total of approximately US$251 million during a 10-year period.
Bavaria will provide malt on a monthly basis.
The financing of the transaction was provided by a trust, which at the same time issued 7,000 securities of US$146 million in the market.
Bavaria received the capital for the transaction up-front.
Leona and Cervunion will repay the capital to the trust in semi-annual instalments, accruing interest of IPC 7.15%.
The price at which the malt is sold and provided by Bavaria is the market price at the date of the monthly provision, in accordance with the Agriculture Stock Exchange in Colombia Bolsa Nacional Agropecuaria.
The price for the volume of malt provided to Leona and Cervunion each month will accumulate and will be equal to the instalment payable at the end of each six-month period of repayment.
Due to the intended refinancing of this element of the Bavaria debt, this borrowing is held as current.
2 In October 2003, Bavaria issued US$500 million 8.875% 144A bonds, due 2010.
This borrowing was repaid on 11 May 2006.
93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Borrowings continued 2006 2005 Non-current US$m US$m Secured: Secured loans 18 21 18 21 Unsecured: 1 US$1,100 million 5.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2013 1,081 1,086 2 US$600 million 4.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2008 600 596 3 US$300 million 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due 2033 293 294 4 US$270 million 8.31% Private Bond Placing 270 COP 640 billion IPC 7.30% Ordinary Bonds due 2014 390 COP 561.8 billion IPC 6.52% Ordinary Bonds due 2015 308 COP 370 billion IPC 8.18% Ordinary Bonds due 2012 222 COP 338.5 billion IPC 7.50% Ordinary Bonds due 2013 204 COP 99.7 billion DTF 2.30% Ordinary Bonds due 2007 45 COP 40 billion DTF 3.0% Ordinary Bonds due 2009 19 5 US$2,000 million multi-currency revolving credit facility 1,944 6 US$2,400 million revolving credit facility 301 7 Botswana pula 60 million 11.35% fixed rate bond due 2011 11 13 Other unsecured loans 183 243 Obligations under finance leases 13 2 5,614 2,504 Total non-current borrowings 5,632 2,525 Total current and non-current borrowings 7,582 3,340 Analysed as: Borrowings 7,231 2,808 Obligations under finance leases 27 19 Overdrafts 324 513 7,582 3,340 1 On 7 August 2003, Miller Brewing Company issued US$1,100 million, 5.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2013, guaranteed by SABMiller plc and SABMiller Finance BV.
The notes mature on 15 August 2013.
The notes are redeemable in whole or in part at any time at the option of the issuer at a redemption price equal to the make-whole amount.
In addition the notes are redeemable in whole but not in part at the option of the issuer upon occurrence of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
2 On 7 August 2003, Miller Brewing Company issued US$600 million, 4.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2008, guaranteed by SABMiller plc and SABMiller Finance BV.
The notes mature on 15 August 2008.
3 On 7 August 2003, SABMiller plc issued US$300 million, 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due 2033, guaranteed by Miller Brewing Company, Miller Products Company, Miller Breweries West Limited Partnership, Miller Breweries East Inc. MBC1 LLC, MBC2 LLC and SABMiller Finance BV.
The notes mature on 15 August 2033.
4 The group previously had US dollar and sterling private placement notes in issue with final maturity in 2008.
As part of the refinancing for the Bavaria transaction, notice was given to repay all of these notes in accordance with their terms, with repayment on 22 September 2005.
5 On 12 December 2005 the group entered into a US$2,000 million multi-currency revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes.
6 On 9 September 2005 the group entered into a US$3,500 million 364-day revolving credit facility with a one-year extension option for general corporate purposes including financing the purchase of minority interests in South America.
This facility was reduced to US$2,400 million on 28 December 2005.
7 On 28 July 2004 a 60 million Botswana pula 11.35% unsecured private bond placing was placed in the Botswana debt capital market.
This bond matures on 31 March 2011.
The bond is redeemable at any time at the option of the issuer, at a market value, in whole or in part.
The bond is not guaranteed.
Borrowings continued Maturity of financial liabilities The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the groups non-current financial liabilities at 31 March was as follows: Derivative Borrowings Finance financial 2006 Borrowings Finance 2005 and overdrafts leases instruments Total and overdrafts leases Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Amounts falling due: Between one and two years 216 11 227 118 2 120 Between two and five years 2,889 1 155 3,045 1,013 1,013 In five years or more 2,514 1 20 2,535 1,392 1,392 5,619 13 175 5,807 2,523 2 2,525 Undrawn borrowing facilities The group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 2006 2005 US$m US$m Amounts falling due: Within one year 1,863 826 Between one and two years 2,099 18 Between two and five years 4 847 In five years or more 64 4,030 1,691 As at 31 March 2006 the facilities expiring within one year are of a general banking nature and thus subject to review at various dates usually on an annual basis, and it is expected that this profile will continue relative to core working capital and seasonal peak borrowing requirements.
The facilities expiring beyond two years are of a project and structured finance nature, and are mostly utilised to finance capital expenditure as well as those of a general funding nature.
Maturity of obligations under finance leases Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are as follows: 2006 2005 US$m US$m The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: Within one year 15 18 Between one and five years 15 2 In five years or more 1 Total future rental payments 31 20 Future finance charges on finance leases 4 1 Present value of finance lease liabilities 27 19 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial instruments The groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow and fair value interest rate risk.
The group purchases or issues financial instruments in order to finance its operations and to manage the interest rate and currency risks that arise from those operations and from its sources of finance.
In addition, various financial instruments, for example trade receivables, trade payables, accruals and prepayments, arise directly from the groups operations.
The group finances its operations through its retained reserves and a mixture of short and medium-term bank credit facilities, bank loans and corporate bonds.
In this way, the group ensures that it is not overly reliant on any particular liquidity source.
The groups treasury is managed by SABMiller plc, which is responsible for cash, the central borrowing portfolio and the management of financial risks arising in relation to volatility in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Under central treasury guidance and policies, operating subsidiaries negotiate short-term funding facilities directly with banks in their various operating regions and also cover their local foreign exchange exposures.
The group also enters into derivative transactions, principally forward foreign currency contracts, cross currency swaps and interest rate swaps in order to manage the currency and interest rate risk arising from the groups operations and financing activities.
The group does not write interest rate or currency options and currency options are only purchased as a cost-effective alternative to forward foreign exchange contracts.
It is group policy that no trading in financial instruments be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
Compliance with the groups policies and exposure limits is reviewed periodically by the audit committee.
These policies have remained unchanged throughout the year ended 31 March 2006. a.
Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The group seeks to mitigate the effect of structural currency exposures by borrowing, where cost effective, in the same currency as the functional currency of its main operating units.
It is not the groups policy to hedge foreign currency translation exposures.
The group also has transactional currency exposures which principally arise from sales or purchases, in currencies other than the units functional currency.
The groups policy is to limit the aggregate uncovered net transaction exposure to US$60 million 2005: US$60 million being intended to limit the impact on group operating profit to 1% for every 10% movement in exchange rates against the US dollar.
The actual position at 31 March 2006 excluding the Bavaria group was US$14 million 2005: US$35 million.
Due to the intended refinancing of certain elements of Bavaria group debt, these currency exposures have been temporarily excluded pending the implementation of an appropriate financing structure.
ii Price risk The group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the group and classified on the balance sheet as available for sale.
The group is exposed to commodity price risk due to changes on the price of malt, barley, sugar and aluminium.
Management negotiates the price internationally in order to protect the group against this risk.
Credit risk The group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
Financial instrument counterparties are subject to approval by the board of directors.
Credit risk is managed by limiting the aggregate amount of exposure to any one counter-party, and the groups policy of only selecting major international financial institutions with a strong investment grade credit rating.
Regional bank limits are set by local group company financial management and reviewed quarterly by group treasury.
c. Liquidity risk In order to mitigate any liquidity risk that the group may face, the groups policy is to maintain substantial unutilised banking facilities and reserve borrowings capacity, as indicated by the level of undrawn facilities.
d. Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The group finances its operations through a mixture of retained reserves, bank and corporate bond borrowings.
The group borrows principally in SA rand, Euro, Polish zloty, Czech krone, Colombian peso and in US dollars at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
The interest rate characteristics of new borrowings and the refinancing of existing borrowings are positioned according to expected movements in interest rates.
In order to hedge specific exposures in the interest rate repricing profile of existing borrowings and anticipated peak additional borrowings, the group makes use of interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements to generate the desired interest profile and to manage the groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
The groups policy to maintain a level of fixed borrowings measured on a rolling basis is intended to limit the impact of a 1% change in interest rates to a 1% of group operating profit, excluding exceptional items.
As at 31 March 2006 25% 2005: 52% of the groups borrowings were at fixed rates after taking into account interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
The changes in the fixed rate percentage between the two years is analysed further under the interest rate risk profile of financial assets and financial liabilities.
Financial instruments continued 2006 IFRS disclosures The group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 April 2005.
The following disclosures are included as at 31 March 2006 to meet the requirements of IAS 32.
Disclosures as at 31 March 2005 are presented under UK GAAP.
The fair value of the groups derivative financial instruments are set out below: Current derivative financial instruments 2006 Assets Liabilities US$m US$m Embedded derivatives 1 Forward foreign currency contracts 2 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 3 1 4 3 Non-current derivative financial instruments 2006 Assets Liabilities US$m US$m Cross currency swaps 155 Interest rate swaps 3 Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 20 3 175 Fair value hedges The group has entered into several interest rate swaps to pay floating and receive fixed interest which have been designated as fair value hedges to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of US$600 million of its fixed rate borrowings.
The borrowings and the interest rate swaps have the same critical terms.
As at 31 March 2006, the notional amount of these interest rate swaps was US$600 million.
The fixed interest rates received vary from 5.5% to 6.625% and floating interest rates paid vary from LIBOR plus 88.75 basis points to LIBOR plus 131.75 basis points on the notional amount.
As at 31 March 2006 the carrying value of the US$600 million borrowings was US$580 million.
Interest payments are made on a semi-annual basis.
Hedge of a net investment in foreign operations The group has entered into several forward exchange contracts which it has designated hedges of net investments in its foreign subsidiaries in South Africa to hedge the groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
As at 31 March 2006, the notional amount of these forward exchange contracts was SA rand 1,481 million.
The foreign exchange gain of US$2 million arising from the forward contracts has been included as a component of equity.
Forward foreign currency contracts The group has entered into forward exchange contracts to manage short-term foreign currency exposures to expected future trade imports and exports.
These derivatives are fair valued based on discounted future cash flows with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
As at 31 March 2006, the notional amounts of these contracts were: Czech krone 20 million, Euro 20 million, US dollar 55 million and SA rand 57 million.
Cross currency swaps Bavaria has entered into cross currency swaps to manage the fluctuation of the exchange rates over 80% of the bonds issued in the United States in 2003.
As at 31 March 2006, the notional amount of these contracts was US$400 million.
Interest rate swaps The group has entered into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on borrowings.
As at 31 March 2006, the notional amount of these contracts was US$233 million.
The fixed interest rates paid vary from 1.54% to 2.93% and the floating rates received vary from LIBOR plus 125 basis points to LIBOR plus 475 basis points.
Embedded derivatives In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for.
As at 31 March 2006, the group recognised embedded derivatives relating to malt and barley contracts.
The notional amount of these derivatives was US$22 million.
97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial instruments continued Fair value gain loss on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 2006 US$m Derivative financial instruments: Cross currency swaps 3 Embedded derivatives 3 Forward foreign currency contracts 3 Interest rate swaps 6 Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 19 28 Other financial instruments: Non-current borrowings designated as fair value hedge 18 18 Total fair value gain on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 10 Fair value gains or losses on borrowings and derivative financial instruments held to hedge interest rate risk on borrowings are recognised as part of net finance costs.
Fair value gains or losses on all other derivative financial instruments are recognised in operating profit.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 2006 Book value Fair value US$m US$m Current financial assets and liabilities: Borrowings 1,950 1,950 Provisions 98 98 Non-current financial assets and liabilities: Borrowings 5,632 5,939 Provisions excluding pensions and post-retirement provisions 118 118 7,798 8,105 Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end exchange rates.
Derivatives, available for sale investments, cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and trade payables are not included in the table above, because their book values are an approximation of their fair values.
The fair values of the groups fixed rate loans are calculated by discounting expected future cash flows using the appropriate yield curve.
The book values of floating rate borrowings approximate their fair value.
Interest rate profiles of financial liabilities The following table sets out the contractual repricing and maturity dates of financial liabilities exposed to either fixed interest rates or floating interest rates.
2006 Total Effect of Total borrowings derivatives exposure Financial liabilities US$m US$m US$m Amounts falling due: Within one year 4,976 855 4,121 Between one and two years 6 84 78 Between two and five years 1,214 339 1,553 In five years or more 1,386 600 1,986 Total interest bearing 7,582 7,582 Analysed as: Fixed rate interest 2,637 767 1,870 Floating rate interest 4,945 767 5,712 Total interest bearing 7,582 7,582 98 21.
Financial instruments continued The effective interest rates on financial assets and liabilities at 31 March were as follows: 2006 % Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments 6.6 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments 3.7 Borrowings: Bavaria S. A. aggregate borrowings 11.1 US$2,000 million multi-currency revolving credit facility 4.6 US$2,400 million revolving credit facility 4.8 US$1,100 million 5.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2013 5.3 US$600 million 4.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2008 4.0 US$300 million 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due 2033 6.4 Botswana pula 60 million 11.55% fixed rate bond due 2011 11.7 Other borrowings 7.1 Available for sale investments, the loan participation deposit, trade receivables and trade payables are not included in the table above because they have an interest rate of approximately 0%.
The effective interest rate for cash and cash equivalents is approximately 4.4%.
Currency profiles of financial assets and liabilities under IAS 32 and 39 The tables below set out the groups currency exposures on financial assets and liabilities held in currencies other than the functional currencies of group companies: Trade Derivative Cash Available and other financial and cash for sale receivables instruments equivalents investments Total Financial assets US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m SA rand 77 7 84 US dollars 108 1 112 2 223 Euro 17 16 1 34 Central European currencies 4 4 Other African currencies 1 1 Other currencies 98 7 8 113 At 31 March 2006 301 1 146 11 459 Trade Derivative and other financial payables instruments Borrowings Provisions Total Financial liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m SA rand 40 1 41 US dollars 138 154 513 8 813 Euro 61 1 1 4 67 Central European currencies 5 5 Other currencies 58 144 36 238 At 31 March 2006 302 155 659 48 1,164 Based on the above exposure, excluding the Bavaria group due to the intended refinancing of certain elements of Bavaria group debt, a 10% change in all foreign currency exchange rates against divisional reporting currencies would impact group operating profit by approximately US$1 million 2005: US$4 million.
99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial instruments continued 2005 UK GAAP disclosures Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities The following table presents the carrying amounts and the fair values of the groups financial instruments as at 31 March 2005.
Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale and excludes accrued interest.
Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values.
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest and exchange rates.
The estimated net fair values have been determined using available market information and appropriate valuation methodologies, as detailed below, but are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the group could realise in the normal course of business.
2005 Book value Fair value US$m US$m Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the groups operations: Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term borrowings 813 821 Long-term borrowings 2,526 2,636 Financial assets 2,307 2,307 Other financial liabilities 2,790 2,790 Derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate and currency profile: Interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements 2 Derivative financial instruments held or issued to hedge the currency and interest rate exposure on expected future transactions: Forward foreign exchange contracts 13 The following methods and assumptions were used by the group in determining fair values: Due to their short-term nature, cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and trade payables are shown at the book values reported in the balance sheet.
Borrowings the fair values of the groups fixed rate loans are estimated using quoted prices or, where such prices are not available, discounted cash flows analysed using the appropriate yield curve.
Derivative financial instruments the fair values of interest rate derivatives are based on discounted cash flow analysis and comprise contracts with fixing dates after 31 March 2005.
The fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts are determined using the relevant market forward foreign exchange rates.
Interest rate risk profile of financial assets and financial liabilities After taking into account the groups interest rate and currency swaps and forward rate agreements the currency and interest rate exposures of the borrowings of the group at 31 March 2005 were: Financial Floating liabilities rate Fixed rate where no financial financial interest is liabilities liabilities Total paid Currency US$m US$m US$m US$m SA rand 230 230 US dollars 701 1,592 2,293 3 Central European currencies 250 122 372 Euro 284 1 285 1 Other currencies 128 31 159 At 31 March 2005 1,593 1,746 3,339 4 Based on the above floating rate borrowings at 31 March 2005, a 1% change in interest rates would impact group operating profit, over a 12-month period, by approximately US$16 million, which is 0.9% of group operating profit under UK GAAP.
The interest rate swaps included in the table above decrease fixed rate debt by US$600 million with a corresponding increase in floating rate debt.
Financial instruments continued Financial liabilities Fixed rate on which no financial liabilities interest is paid Weighted average Weighted period for Weighted average which rate average term interest rate is fixed to maturity Currency % years years US dollars 562 Central European currencies 43 Other currencies 17 3 At 31 March 2005 542 Net foreign currency monetary assets liabilities Central Western Other European European African Other Functional currency SA rand US dollar currencies currencies currencies currencies Total of group operation US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m SA rand 2 5 7 US dollars 6 2 21 8 10 15 Central European currencies 6 2 9 17 Other African currencies 4 5 1 Other currencies 10 10 At 31 March 2005 2 9 4 26 8 10 35 The amounts shown in the table above take into account the effect of forward contracts and purchased currency options, which are used when cost effective as an alternative to forward contracts.
Certain subsidiaries have open forward contracts to manage short-term foreign currency exposures to expected future trade imports and exports.
These activities are predominantly centred in South Africa and take place between the SA rand, US dollar, and the euro.
101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Provisions Litigation and Postdemerged retirement Onerous Restructentities benefits Insurance Taxation contracts uring Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2004 54 743 30 35 15 31 908 Exchange adjustments 1 1 1 3 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 1 1 Hindsight adjustments 2 2 Charged credited to profit and loss account 12 40 67 8 2 16 9 74 Utilised in the year: Existing 9 119 65 2 10 205 Transfer from payables receivables 4 4 Actuarial losses 210 210 At 31 March 2005 59 791 32 41 17 16 33 989 Exchange adjustments 1 2 1 1 5 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 8 200 49 3 260 Charged credited to profit and loss account 6 83 60 5 1 143 Utilised in the year: Existing 7 52 60 5 7 10 9 150 Acquired 8 2 10 Actuarial gains 42 42 Amortisation of discount 1 1 At 31 March 2006 53 970 32 87 12 5 27 1,186 Analysed as: Current 39 12 28 6 5 8 98 Non-current 14 970 20 59 6 19 1,088 53 970 32 87 12 5 27 1,186 Demerged entities and litigation During the year ended 31 March 1998, the group recognised a provision of US$117 million for the disposal of certain demerged entities in relation to equity injections which were not regarded as recoverable, as well as potential liabilities arising on warranties and the sale agreements.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, US$1 million of this provision was further utilised in regard to costs associated with SAB Ltds previously disposed of remaining retail interests.
The residual balance of US$20 million relates mainly to the disposal of OK Bazaars 1929 Ltd to Shoprite Holdings Ltd Shoprite.
As disclosed in previous annual reports, a number of claims were made by Shoprite in relation to the valuation of the net assets of OK Bazaars at the time of the sale and for alleged breaches by SAB Ltd of warranties contained in the sale agreements.
These claims are being contested by SAB Ltd and have been submitted for dispute resolution to independent accountants acting as experts and not as arbitrators.
In March 2000 a determination was made by the expert.
Shoprite challenged the experts determination in High Court proceedings and that challenge is still the subject of ongoing proceedings in the High Court.
While a full provision for all claims has already been made, the actual outcome of the dispute and the timing of the resolution cannot be estimated by the directors at this time.
The further information ordinarily required by IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets has not been disclosed on the grounds that it can be expected to seriously prejudice the outcome of the dispute.
There are US$33 million 2005: US$38 million of provisions in respect of outstanding litigation within various operations.
Based on management expectation, the outcomes of these disputes are expected to be resolved within the forthcoming five years.
Post-retirement benefits The provision for post-retirement benefits represents the provision for medical benefits for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, for post-retirement medical and life insurance benefits to eligible employees and their dependants in North America, and pension provisions for employees in North and South America, South Africa, Europe and Africa and Asia.
The principal assumptions on which these provisions are based are disclosed in note 28.
Provisions continued Insurance Insurance provisions of US$32 million 2005: US$32 million represent amounts provided in respect of claims made by employees for health insurance and work-related accidents.
Management estimates that the provision will be substantially utilised in the next one to two years.
Taxation The group has recognised various provisions in relation to corporation and other taxation exposures it believes will arise.
The provisions principally relate to interest and penalties on corporate taxation in respect of a number of group companies and are not individually significant.
Any settlement in respect of these amounts will occur as and when the assessments are finalised with the respective tax authorities.
Restructuring This includes the remaining provision for restructuring costs related to the Canary Islands which management expects to be utilised within one year.
Onerous contracts The group has made provision for certain contracts which are deemed to be onerous.
The provisions are expected to be utilised within three years, in line with the period of the contracts.
Other provisions Included within other provisions are payroll related provisions of US$14 million 2005: US$6 million which include US$9 million 2005: US$6 million within South Africa relating to employee long service awards.
These are expected to be utilised on an ongoing basis when the service awards fall due.
Share capital 2006 2005 US$m US$m Group and company Authorised share capital 9,420,051,230 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 2005: 9,027,640,206 942 903 804,948,770 convertible participating shares of 10 US cents each 2005: 972,359,794 80 97 77,368,338 non-voting convertible shares of 10 US cents each 2005: 77,368,338 8 8 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each 2005: 50,000 1,030 1,008 Called up, allotted and fully paid share capital 1,497,844,458 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 2005: 1,101,759,844 150 110 Nil convertible participating shares of 10 US cents each 2005: 167,411,024 17 77,368,338 non-voting convertible shares of 10 US cents each 2005: 77,368,338 8 8 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each 2005: 50,000 158 135 Convertible Non-voting  convertible Deferred shares of shares of shares of shares of 10 US cents 10 US cents 10 US cents 1 Nominal each each each each value 000 000 000 000 US$m At 1 April 2004 1,000,316 195,051 77,368 50 127 Redesignation of convertible participating shares 27,640 27,640 Issue of shares conversion of 4.25% guaranteed convertible bond69,191 7 Issue of shares share purchase, option and award schemes 4,613 1 At 31 March 2005 1,101,760 167,411 77,368 50 135 Issue of shares conversion of convertible participating shares 167,411 167,411 Issue of shares Bavaria transaction 225,000 23 Issue of shares share purchase, option and award schemes 3,674 At 31 March 2006 1,497,845 77,368 50 158 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Share capital continued 2006 Changes to the authorised share capital On 12 October 2005, the ordinary share capital was increased from US$1,007,736,833 to US$1,030,236,833 by the creation of 225,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each.
In addition, on the same date 167,411,024 convertible participating shares of 10 US cents each were converted into 167,411,024 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each.
Changes to the issued share capital Upon completion of the Bavaria transaction on 12 October 2005, the company issued a total of 225,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each to BevCo LLC BevCo.
BevCo has agreed to a lock-up period in which it will not be able to sell its shares, other than in specific circumstances until 12 October 2010.
In addition, on the same date, 167,411,024 convertible participating shares of 10 US cents each, held by Altria Group, Inc. Altria formerly Philip Morris Companies, Inc., were converted into 167,411,024 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each.
Following the conversion, Altria holds 430,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 2005: 262,588,976 and the number of convertible participating shares of the company in issue was reduced to zero.
Altria is entitled to require the company to convert ordinary shares of 10 US cents held by it into convertible participating shares so as to ensure that Altrias voting shareholding does not exceed 24.99% of the total voting shareholding.
A description of the rights and restrictions relating to the convertible participating shares is below.
In terms of the companys share purchase, option and award schemes, a total of 3,673,590 2005: 4,613,024 new ordinary shares of 10 US cents were allotted and issued during the year for a consideration of US$30 million 2005: US$38 million.
2005 In order to comply with Altria Group, Incs election to increase its voting percentage to 24.99%, 27,640,206 convertible participating shares of 10 US cents each were redesignated as 27,640,206 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each.
Rights and restrictions relating to share capital Convertible participating shares Altria shall be entitled to require the company to convert its ordinary shares into convertible participating shares so as to ensure that Altrias voting shareholding does not exceed 24.99% of the total voting shareholding.
If such an event occurs, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the non-voting convertible shares in all respects and no action shall be taken by the company in relation to ordinary shares unless the same action is taken in respect of the convertible participating shares and the non-voting convertible shares.
On distribution of the profits whether by cash dividend, dividend in specie, scrip dividend, capitalisation issue or otherwise, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the non-voting convertible shares.
On a return of capital whether winding-up or otherwise, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the non-voting convertible shares.
Altria shall be entitled to vote its convertible participating shares at general meetings of the company on a poll on the basis of one-tenth of a vote for every convertible participating share on all resolutions other than a resolution: i proposed by any person other than Altria, to wind-up the company: ii proposed by any person other than Altria, to appoint an administrator or to approve any arrangement with the companys creditors: iii proposed by the board, to sell all or substantially all of the undertaking of the company: or iv proposed by any person other than Altria, to alter any of the class rights attaching to the convertible participating shares or to approve the creation of any new class of shares, in which case Altria shall be entitled on a poll to vote on the resolution on the basis of one vote for each convertible participating share, but, for the purposes of any resolution other than a resolution mentioned in iv above, the convertible participating shares shall be treated as being of the same class as the ordinary shares and no separate meeting or resolution of the holders of the convertible participating shares shall be required to be convened or passed.
Upon a transfer of convertible participating shares by Altria other than to an affiliate, such convertible participating shares shall convert into ordinary shares.
Altria shall be entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares where the board has consented to the conversion.
Altria shall be entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares, so long as such conversion does not result in Altrias voting rights in the company, expressed as a percentage of the total voting rights in SABMiller, calculated in the case of the convertible participating shares on the basis of one-tenth of a vote for every convertible participating share, being more than 24.99% of the total voting shareholding.
Altria shall be entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares if: i a third party has made a takeover offer for the company and if such offer becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects it would result in the voting shareholding of the third party being more than 30% of the total voting shareholding: and ii Altria has communicated to the company in writing its intention not to make an offer competing with such third party offer, provided that the conversion date shall be no earlier than the date on which the third partys offer becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects.
Altria shall be entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares if the voting shareholding of a third party should be more than 24.99%, provided that: i the number of ordinary shares held by Altria following such conversion shall be limited to one ordinary share more than the number of ordinary shares held by the third party: and ii such conversion shall at no time result in Altrias voting shareholding being equal to or greater than the voting shareholding which would require Altria to make a mandatory offer in terms of rule 9 of the City Code.
If Altria wishes to acquire additional ordinary shares other than pursuant to a pre-emptive issue of new ordinary shares or with the prior approval of the board, Altria shall first convert into ordinary shares the lesser of: i such number of convertible participating shares as would result in Altrias voting shareholding being such percentage as would, in the event of Altria subsequently acquiring one additional ordinary share, require Altria to make a mandatory offer in terms of rule 9 of the City Code: and ii all of its remaining convertible participating shares.
104 The company shall use its best endeavours to procure that the ordinary shares arising on conversion of the convertible participating shares and the non-voting convertible shares are admitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities, admitted to listing and trading on JSE Limited, and admitted to listing and trading on any other stock exchange upon which the ordinary shares are from time to time listed and traded, but no admission to listing or trading shall be sought for the convertible participating shares or the non-voting convertible shares whilst they remain convertible participating shares or non-voting convertible shares as the case may be.
Non-voting convertible shares Safari Limited Safari holds non-voting convertible shares of 10 US cents each.
Safari shall not be entitled to vote its non-voting convertible shares on any resolution other than a resolution to alter any of the class rights attaching to the non-voting convertible shares, in which case Safari shall be entitled to vote on the resolution on the basis of one vote for each non-voting convertible share.
The non-voting convertible shares rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the convertible participating shares in all respects and no action shall be taken by the company in relation to ordinary shares unless the same action is taken in respect of the non-voting convertible shares and the convertible participating shares.
On distribution of the profits whether by cash dividend, dividend in specie, scrip dividend, capitalisation issue or otherwise, the non-voting convertible shares rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the convertible participating shares.
On a return of capital whether winding-up or otherwise, the non-voting convertible shares each rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the convertible participating shares.
The non-voting convertible shares are convertible into ordinary shares on a transfer to a third party unconnected with SABMiller, or Altria or any of their affiliates or any person deemed to be acting in concert with SABMiller or Altria.
Deferred shares The deferred shares do not carry any voting rights and do not entitle holders thereof to receive any dividends or other distributions.
In the event of a winding up deferred shareholders would receive no more than the nominal value.
Deferred shares represent the only non-equity share capital of the group.
Share-based payments The group operates various equity-settled and cash-settled share option schemes for certain employees.
The awards outstanding can be summarised as follows: Number of Number of ordinary ordinary shares shares Scheme 2006 2005 Equity-settled plans a Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme South Africa 11,702,563 11,608,464 b Executive Share Option Scheme Approved Scheme and No 2 Scheme 9,292,221 8,120,480 c Performance Share Award Scheme 1,351,221 2,044,697 d International Performance Share Award Sub-Scheme 782,724 470,634 e International Employee Share Scheme 3,240,267 2,709,964 Total equity-settled plans 26,368,996 24,954,239 Cash-settled plans f International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme 5,874,130 5,658,896 Total cash-settled plans 5,874,130 5,658,896 Total of share option schemes 32,243,126 30,613,135 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Share capital continued Further details relating to all of the equity-settled and cash-settled share option schemes can be found in the Remuneration report in the section entitled Long-term incentive plans on pages 49 to 51. a.
Share capital continued c. Performance Share Award scheme As at 31 March 2006 the following options were outstanding under the SABMiller plc Performance Share Award Scheme: Date by which 2006 2005 performance Ordinary Ordinary Exercise price condition Date of award shares shares must be met 31 May 2002 265,670 Nil 31.05.2005 9 July 2002 400,000 Nil 09.07.2005 1 August 2002 200,000 Nil 01.08.2005 1 September 2002 109,770 Nil 01.09.2005 23 May 2003 544,237 586,630 Nil 23.05.2006 21 May 2004 354,239 382,627 Nil 21.05.2007 19 November 2004 100,000 100,000 Nil 19.11.2009 20 May 2005 332,745 Nil 20.05.2008 28 February 2006 20,000 Nil 28.02.2009 1,351,221 2,044,697 Certain of these awards may rank for a 50% additional reward, provided the shares are held in the EBT for a period of two years after vesting.
SABMiller plc International Employee Share Scheme Hong Kong and China.
Share capital continued f. International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme SARS The group issues to certain employees SARS that require the group to pay the intrinsic value of the SARS to the employee at the date of the exercise.
The group has recorded a liability of US$32 million 2005: US$17 million in respect of the SARS.
Share capital continued The exercise prices of awards outstanding at 31 March 2006 ranged from 0 to 10.53 and R32.84 to R124.34.
The movement in share awards outstanding is summarised in the following table: Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Total Number of average average Number of average average number of awards under exercise fair value at awards under exercise fair value on awards UK option price grant date SA option price R grant date R under option Outstanding at 1 April 2004 15,629,192 3.92 12,879,064 56.4 28,508,256 Granted 6,772,212 6.19 2.082,111,500 88.5 30.38,883,712 Lapsed 58,900 6.24 907,635 60.8 966,535 Exercised or vested 3,337,833 4.30 2,474,465 48.9 5,812,298 Outstanding at 31 March 2005 19,004,671 4.64 11,608,464 63.5 30,613,135 Granted 6,260,185 7.54 2.65 2,551,799 111.2 41.1 8,811,984 Lapsed 796,700 4.26 426,500 75.2 1,223,200 Exercised or vested 3,927,593 3.77 2,031,200 49.6 5,958,793 Outstanding at 31 March 2006 20,540,563 5.68 11,702,563 75.9 32,243,126 Awards exercised The weighted average market-price of the groups shares at the date of exercise for share awards exercised during the year were: Weighted Weighted average average market market Number price Number price 2006 2006 2005 2005 Share awards designated in pounds sterling: Equity-settled 2,603,750 10.04 2,337,262 7.48 Cash-settled 1,323,843 10.681,000,571 7.32 3,927,593 10.23 3,337,833 7.43 Share awards designated in SA rand: Equity-settled 2,031,200 113.102,474,465 86.7 Total awards exercised during the year 5,958,793 5,812,298 Share based payments have been valued using a binomial model approach except for the Performance Share awards which have been valued using Monte Carlo simulations.
The Monte Carlo simulation methodology is necessary for valuing share based payments with Total Shareholder Return performance hurdles.
This is achieved by projecting SABMiller plcs share price forwards, together with those of companies in the same comparator group, over the vesting period and or life of the options after considering their respective volatilities.
Weighted average fair value assumptions The fair value of services received in return for share awards granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted after 7 November 2002.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a binomial model for share options.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in these option pricing models: 2006 2005 Share price: South African schemes R 82.64 71.36 All other schemes 6.22 5.33 Exercise price: South African schemes R 82.01 71.35 All other schemes 5.40 4.66 Expected volatility all schemes 22.5% 22.5% Dividend yield all schemes 2.4% 2.4% Annual forfeiture rate: South African schemes 12.5% 12.5% All other schemes 3.0% 3.0% Risk-free interest rate: South African schemes 8.1% 8.2% All other schemes 4.3% 4.3% Expected volatility is calculated by assessing the historic share price data in the United Kingdom and South Africa since May 1999 and May 2001 respectively.
Statement of changes in shareholders equity Foreign Merger Safari currency Share Share relief and EBT translation Hedging Retained Minority Total capital premium reserve shares reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2004 127 1,383 3,395 638 1,986 6,253 826 7,079 Currency translation movements on foreign currency investments 207 207 13 220 Deferred tax credit on items taken to equity 83 83 83 Actuarial losses taken to equity 210 210 210 Acquisitions minority interests 14 14 Other movements 4 4 4 Profit for the financial year 1,521 1,521 208 1,729 Dividends paid 413 413 179 592 Issued capital 1 37 38 38 Conversion of 4.25% guaranteed convertible bonds 7 590 597 597 Payment for purchase of own shares for EBT 21 21 21 Utilisation of EBT shares 1 1 Payment for buyout of minorities 204 204 Equity-settled share incentive plans 18 18 18 At 31 March 2005 135 2,010 3,395 658 207 2,988 8,077 678 8,755 Adoption of IAS 32 and 39 5 5 5 At 1 April 2005 135 2,010 3,395 658 207 2,993 8,082 678 8,760 Currency translation movements on foreign currency investments 103 103 25 128 Net investment hedges fair value losses in period 2 2 2 Deferred tax charge on items taken to equity 8 8 8 Actuarial gains taken to equity 42 42 42 Acquisitions minority interests 828 828 Other movements 7 7 7 Profit for the financial year 1,440 1,440 234 1,674 Dividends paid 520 520 165 685 Issued capital 23 4,089 4,112 4,112 Payment for purchase of own shares for EBT 8 8 8 Utilisation of EBT shares 11 11 Payment for buyout of minorities 996 996 Equity-settled share incentive plans 17 17 17 At 31 March 2006 158 6,099 3,395 655 104 2 3,946 13,045 554 13,599 These are classified as other reserves on the group consolidated balance sheet.
The groups retained earnings includes amounts of US$107 million 2005: US$107 million, the distribution of which is limited by statutory or other restrictions.
111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Statement of changes in shareholders equity continued Safari and EBT shares reserve In the financial year ended 31 March 2000, Safari Ltd a special purpose vehicle established and financed by a wholly owned subsidiary of SABMiller plc acquired 77,368,338 SABMiller plc shares at an initial cost of US$560 million.
In terms of the agreement, a top-up payment of US$58 million was accrued for at 31 March 2001 and paid to the selling shareholders on 3 April 2001.
On 9 July 2002 these shares held by Safari Ltd were converted to non-voting convertible shares.
These shares have been treated as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds.
The employee benefit trusts hold shares in SABMiller plc for the purposes of the various executive share incentive schemes, further details of which are disclosed in the Remuneration report.
The shares currently rank pari passu with all other ordinary shares.
At 31 March 2006 the trusts held 3,487,448 shares 2005: 4,079,530 shares which cost US$38 million 2005: US$40 million and had a market value of US$69 million 2005: US$64 million.
The trusts used funds provided by SABMiller plc to purchase the shares.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all translation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets together with differences between income statements translated at average and closing rates.
Merger relief reserve In accordance with section 131 of the Companies Act, 1985, the group recorded the US$3,395 million excess of value attributed to the shares issued as consideration for Miller Brewing Company over the nominal value of those shares as a merger relief reserve in the year ended 31 March 2003.
Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operations 2006 2005 US$m US$m Profit for the year 1,674 1,729 Taxation 779 823 Share of post-tax results of associates 177 148 Interest receivable 78 96 Interest payable and similar charges 377 239 Operating profit 2,575 2,547 Depreciation: property, plant and equipment 444 396 containers 111 82 Container breakages, shrinkage and write-offs 77 51 Profit loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 5 16 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 4 8 Amortisation of intangible assets 105 33 Net loss from fair value hedges 5 Dividends received from other investments 3 10 Charge with respect to share options 17 18 Restructuring and integration costs Latin America 7 Gain in relation to changes to post-retirement plans North America 104 Profit on sale of investments Africa and Asia, Corporate 355 Restructuring provision in the Canary Islands Europe 16 Restructuring provision North America 2 Brewery closure costs in Tumwater North America 1 Brewery closure costs in Italy Europe 30 Deferred income 3 Other non-cash movements 11 14 Net cash generated from operations before working capital movements EBITDA 3,348 2,736 Increase in inventories 78 24 Increase in receivables 67 62 Increase in payables 86 188 Decrease increase in provisions 31 8 Increase decrease in post-retirement provisions 33 54 Net cash generated from operations 3,291 2,792 Cash generated from operations include cash flows relating to exceptional items of US$8 million in respect of South America integration and reorganisation costs 2005: US$4 million cash inflow in respect of proceeds on the Tumwater disposal, and US$5 million cash outflow in respect of brewery closure costs in Italy.
Analysis of net debt Net debt is defined as the borrowings of the group including overdrafts together with the fair value of derivative assets or liabilities held to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk of borrowings, offset by cash and cash equivalents and the loan participation deposit.
The movement in net debt is shown below.
Cash and cash equivalents Total cash Loan Derivative Total excluding and cash participation financialFinance gross Net overdrafts Overdrafts equivalents deposit Borrowings instruments leases borrowings debt US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2004 682 222 460 3,437 42 3,479 3,019 Exchange movements 32 24 56 53 1 54 110 Cash flow 493 268 225 92 25 117 342 Reclassifications 1 1 1 1  7 7 7 Conversion of debt 597 597 597 At 31 March 2005 1,143 513 630 2,808 19 2,827 2,197 Adoption of IAS 32 and 39 25 12 13 13 At 1 April 2005 1,143 513 630 2,833 12 19 2,840 2,210 Exchange adjustments 2 13 11 62 62 73 Cash flow 651 179 472 196 2,102 28 2,074 2,350 Acquisitions 232 3 229 2,642 138 36 2,816 2,587 Other non-cash movements 34 47 13 13 At 31 March 2006 cash flow 722 324 398 196 7,481 173 27 7,681 7,087 Legal right of offset 250 250 250 250 At 31 March 2006 balance sheet 472 324 148 196 7,231 173 27 7,431 7,087 During the year, SABMiller plc acquired two 100% participations in bank loans owed by subsidiary companies totalling US$446 million that were outstanding at the financial year end.
For US$250 million of this balance, the terms of the participation agreement confer full rights of set-off on SABMiller plc in respect of the related bank loan.
As a result, this loan participation is offset within borrowings on the balance sheet.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement it is treated as a cash and cash equivalent as it is readily convertible into cash in accordance with IAS 7 Cash flow statements.
For the remaining balance of US$196 million, the terms of the agreement include no right of set-off and therefore the loan participation has been separately disclosed on the balance sheet as a loan participation deposit.
In the cash flow statement the participation has not been treated as a cash and cash equivalent as it is not readily convertible into cash.
The groups net debt is denominated in the following currencies: Colombian Other US dollars SA rand Euro peso currencies Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total cash and cash equivalents 883 146 38 76 1,143 Total gross borrowings 2,294 230 285 531 3,340 Net debt at 31 March 2005 1,411 84 247 455 2,197 Total cash and cash equivalents 174 46 28 45 179 472 Loan participation deposit 196 196 Total gross borrowings 4,418 225 253 2,031 828 7,755 Net debt at 31 March 2006 4,244 179 225 1,986 453 7,087 25c.
Major non-cash transactions 2006 During October 2005, SABMiller plc issued 225 million ordinary shares as consideration for the investment in Bavaria see note 26.
2005 During December 2004, SAB Finance Cayman Islands Limited exercised its right to call for the redemption of all of its issued US$600 million 4.25% guaranteed convertible bonds due 10 August 2006.
The bonds were redeemable at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest up to and including the date fixed for redemption, following the satisfaction of certain conditions.
One of the conditions required that the closing middle market quotation for an SABMiller ordinary share be at least 130% of the conversion price of 6.15 per share being 7.995 per share for 30 consecutive calendar days, at any time after 24 August 2004.
This condition was satisfied on 8 December 2004.
All of the conditions having been satisfied, SAB Finance Cayman Islands Limited issued a notice to bondholders informing them the date fixed for redemption was 10 January 2005, and on 4 January 2005 announced that the bondholders and the bond trustee had exercised their right to convert all of the bonds into SABMiller plc ordinary shares, which led to 69,057,697 ordinary shares being allotted and issued and all of the bonds being cancelled.
Prior to this cancellation, 133,309 SABMiller plc ordinary shares had been issued during the year on conversion of similar convertible bonds.
113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Acquisitions and disposals The following significant business combinations took effect during the year: South America 12 October 2005: the group obtained a 71.42% controlling effective interest in Bavaria, a company listed on the Colombian Stock Exchange.
As consideration, SABMiller plc issued 225 million ordinary shares US$4,082 million excluding transaction costs, amounting to some 15.02% of the enlarged ordinary share capital of SABMiller.
On that same date the group acquired class A voting shares from minority interests representing 14.31% of the economic interest in Backus, Bavarias primary listed subsidiary in Peru, for cash consideration of US$473 million and certain other minority interests for cash consideration of US$196 million, principally the remaining minority interest in Leona, a subsidiary of Bavaria.
Other acquisitions 27 May 2005: the groups Indian subsidiary, MBL Investments Mysore acquired the Shaw Wallace Groups interest in the groups investment in India, SKOL breweries Ltd SKOL for cash consideration of US$192 million, taking the groups interest to 99%.
Up to this date SABMillers India interests had been classed as other investments.
22 March 2006: the group acquired 48.4% of the Slovakian brewer, Pivovar Topvar a. s. Topvar, for cash consideration of US$20 million.
Under the terms of the agreement, the existing shareholders will sell further shares the Additional Shares to enable the group to increase its interest in Topvar to at least 67% by the end of September 2006.
The remaining shares held by the controlling shareholders are subject to put and call arrangements exercisable within 18 months of the group acquiring the Additional Shares and the related consideration of US$22 million is recognised as deferred consideration.
From 22 March 2006, the group was able to exercise full control over the company.
All business combinations have been accounted for using the purchase method.
All assets and liabilities were recognised at their respective fair values.
The residual over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
The following table represents the assets and liablities acquired in respect of all business combinations entered into during the year ended 31 March 2006: Provisional fair value US$m Intangible assets 3,532 Property, plant and equipment 2,069 Investments in associates 7 Available for sale investments 14 Inventories 199 Trade and other receivables 541 Cash and cash equivalents 232 Current tax assets 7 Borrowings 2,681 Trade and other payables 789 Current tax liabilities 3 Derivative financial instruments 138 Net deferred tax liabilities 1,097 Provisions 260 1,633 Equity minority interests 828 Net assets acquired 805 Goodwill 4,389 Consideration 5,194 Consideration satisfied by: Shares issued 4,082 Cash 949 Deferred consideration 22 Investment shares previously owned see note 14 141 5,194 114 26.
Acquisitions and disposals continued From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2006 the following amounts have been included in the groups income and cash flow statements for the year: Other South America acquisitions Total US$m US$m US$m Income statement Revenue 1,622 156 1,778 Operating profit 298 7 305 Profit loss before tax 197 9 188 Cash flow statement Cash generated from operations 504 5 509 Net interest paid 114 16 130 Tax paid 75 1 76 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 115 21 136 Pro forma information Pro forma information has not been provided because the information required for the above acquisitions under the groups accounting policies is not available.
South America The amounts included within the following analyses relate to the initial Bavaria transaction on 12 October 2005, and do not include amounts relating to the subsequent minority purchases in December and March.
Carrying values Provisional pre-acquisition fair value US$m US$m Goodwill 1,690 Intangible assets 129 3,483 Property, plant and equipment 2,243 1,990 Investments in associates 75 7 Available for sale investments 19 14 Inventories 206 188 Trade and other receivables 508 483 Cash and cash equivalents 262 224 Current tax assets 57 Borrowings 2,278 2,584 Trade and other payables 524 730 Derivative financial instruments 70 138 Net deferred tax liabilities 314 1,101 Provisions 157 253 1,794 1,590 Equity minority interests 707 828 Net assets acquired 762 Provisional goodwill 4,042 Consideration 4,804 Consideration satisfied by: Shares issued 4,082 Cash including transaction costs of US$53 million 722 4,804 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Acquisitions and disposals continued The fair value adjustments include provisional amounts which will be finalised in the 2007 annual report and accounts.
Goodwill represents amongst other things: strategic premium for the brewing assets that benefit from first mover advantage supplying smaller regional markets: assembled work force, and value of synergies.
225 million ordinary shares of 10 US cents of SABMiller plc were issued and were valued at a market price of 10.35 using an exchange rate of 1:US$1.7528 at 12 October 2005, the date of the completion of the initial transaction.
The inflow outflow of cash and cash equivalents on the initial Bavaria transaction is calculated as follows: US$m Cash consideration 722 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 224 498 Overdrafts acquired included in borrowings 1 The intangible assets acquired as part of the initial Bavaria transaction can be analysed as follows: US$m Brands 3,480 Computer software 2 Other 1 3,483 Further details relating to the brands acquired are given in note 11.
Other acquisitions Carrying values Provisional pre-acquisition fair value US$m US$m Goodwill 315 Intangible assets 40 49 Property, plant and equipment 77 79 Inventories 11 11 Trade and other receivables 56 58 Cash and cash equivalents 88 Deferred tax assets 44 Current tax liabilities 3 3 Borrowings 96 97 Trade and other payables 62 59 Provisions 6 7 344 43 Equity minority interests Net assets acquired 43 Goodwill 347 Consideration 390 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 227 Investment shares previously owned see note 14 141 Deferred consideration 22 390 On 22 March 2006, the group acquired a 48% interest in Topvar.
The group also entered into an agreement with the vendors such that the group has the power to control the operating and financial policies of Topvar after that date.
The remaining interest in Topvar is expected to be purchased by the group over the subsequent year for a fixed consideration and as such has been included as deferred consideration.
The fair value adjustments include provisional amounts which will be finalised in the 2007 annual report and accounts.
Acquisitions and disposals continued The inflow outflow of cash and cash equivalents on the other acquisitions is calculated as follows: US$m Cash consideration 227 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 8 219 Overdrafts acquired included in borrowings 2 The intangible assets acquired as part of the other acquisitions can be analysed as follows: US$m Brands 39 Computer software 1 Distribution network 9 49 Minority interests The following minority interests were acquired during the period for total consideration of US$2,065 million including deferred consideration of US$17 million with additional goodwill of US$1,052 million recognised.
% holding after acquisition of minority Form of % acquired interest consideration Region Plzensk y Prazdr oj a. s. 3.1% 100% Cash Czech Republic Bevco Limited 41.8% 100% Cash British Virgin Islands Backus 37.7% 93.4% Cash and Peru deferred consideration Bavaria 25.8% 97.2% Cash Colombia Amalgamated Beverage Industries Ltd n a acquisition 100% Payment of South took place deferred Africa during 2005 consideration Disposals There were no disposals during the year ended 31 March 2006 or the year ended 31 March 2005.
Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable leases at 31 March 2006 are as follows: 2006 2005 US$m US$m Land and buildings: Within one year 13 14 Later than one year and less than five years 31 35 After five years 28 34 72 83 Plant, vehicles and systems: Within one year 18 21 Later than one year and less than five years 29 12 After five years 2 49 33 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Commitments, contingencies and guarantees continued b.
Other commitments 2006 2005 US$m US$m Capital commitments not provided in the financial information: Contracts placed for future expenditure for property, plant and equipment 388 221 Contracts placed for future expenditure for intangible assets 12 44 Other commitments not provided in the financial information: Contracts placed for future expenditure 527 436 Contracts placed for future expenditure primarily relate to Millers various long-term non-cancellable advertising and promotion commitments which, at 31 March 2006, are principally due between 2006 and 2013.
In addition, Miller has various long-term supply contracts with unrelated third parties to purchase certain materials used in its production and packaging process.
The terms of these contracts generally stipulate that Miller must use the designated suppliers for expected minimum percentages of its annual purchase requirements of the specified materials.
However, Miller is not obliged to make any purchases unless it requires supplies of such materials.
Supply contracts outstanding at 31 March 2006 for malt, bottles, labels and cans expire between 2006 and 2015. c. Contingent liabilities and guarantees 2006 2005 US$m US$m Guarantees to third parties provided in respect of borrowings of the group: 2,000 3,285 US$300 million 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due 2033 300 300 US$1,100 million 5.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2013 1,100 1,100 US$600 million 4.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2008 600 600 US$nil million 2005: US$1,000 million Syndicated Loan 1,000 US$nil million 2005: US$270 million 8.31% Private Bond Placing 270 Bank facilities 15 Staff loans and pension guarantees i 27 30 Guarantees in respect of Tsogo Sun see note 29b 106 225 Jointly held contingent liability ii 150 Share of associates contingent liabilities incurred jointly with other investors 6 6 Share of associates contingent liabilities arising from the group being liable for all or part of the liabilities of the associate 76 Litigation iii 2 2 Other iv 2,367 3,548 These represent the maximum amounts guaranteed by SABMiller plc, the company.
The aggregate actual amounts under all guarantees outstanding and disclosed as part of borrowings note 20 are US$1,974 million as at 31 March 2006 2005: US$2,414 million.
i Staff loans and pension guarantees Staff loans and pension guarantees primarily relate to the present value of Miller pension guarantees.
Miller and Pabst Brewing Company Pabst are responsible for the Milwaukee Brewery Workers Pension Plan.
In connection with Pabsts closure of its Milwaukee, Wisconsin brewery and their contract brewing agreement with Miller, Pabst entered into a withdrawal liability settlement agreement, which requires annual payments by Pabst to this pension plan of approximately US$4 million until 2013.
In the event that Pabst is unable to fulfil its pension plan obligation, the plan would have recourse to all the assets of Pabst and its parent company.
If such assets do not satisfy Pabsts remaining pension obligation, Miller would be required to fund the remaining Pabst withdrawal liability until 2013.
Commitments, contingencies and guarantees continued ii Jointly held contingent liability Bavaria S. A. is jointly and severally liable with Valorem S. A. part of the Santo Domingo Group SDG for the pension obligations of Avianca S. A. formerly part of the SDG group but which was sold by SDG in 2004.
The maximum obligation is for US$150 million which corresponds to the initial actuarial value of the pension obligations.
iii Litigation The group has a number of activities in a wide variety of geographic areas and is subject to certain legal claims incidental to its operations.
In the opinion of the directors, after taking appropriate legal advice, these claims are not expected to have, either individually or in aggregate, a material adverse effect upon the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
The company, with Miller Brewing Company, in common with other participants in the beer and spirits industries in the USA, is a defendant in five putative class action lawsuits alleging that the defendants have targeted the marketing of certain alcoholic beverage brands to persons under the legal drinking age.
The plaintiffs allege several causes of action, including violations of state consumer protection laws, unjust enrichment, negligence, public nuisance, and civil conspiracy.
The complaints seek, on behalf of a putative class of parents and guardians, an injunction to stop certain unspecified marketing practices and unspecified money damages including civil fines, punitive damages, and disgorgement of profits.
The lawsuits are being litigated individually in their respective jurisdictions and none have progressed past the pleading stage.
As of 31 March 2006 the company had not been required to formally respond to any of the five lawsuits and two of them had been dismissed in their entirety by the trial court, one of which is on appeal.
The company has yet to be served in the three remaining lawsuits, though motions to dismiss have been filed in two of them by certain co-defendants, including Miller Brewing Company.
Miller Brewing Company is a defendant in a sixth case that has been dismissed by the trial court and is now on appeal.
Given their current status, there are not yet meaningful bases on which the potential for liability and any quantum of penalty or damages can be determined.
iv Other SABMiller and Altria entered into a tax matters agreement the Agreement on 30 May 2002, to regulate the conduct of tax matters between them with regard to the acquisition of Miller and to allocate responsibility for contingent tax costs.
SABMiller has agreed to indemnify Altria against any taxes, losses, liabilities and costs that Altria incurs arising out of or in connection with a breach by SABMiller of any representation, agreement or covenant in the Agreement, subject to certain exceptions.
The group has exposures to various environmental risks.
Although it is difficult to predict the groups liability with respect to these risks, future payments, if any, would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material to the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world.
These schemes have been designed and are administered in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
The majority of the schemes are funded and the schemes assets are held independently of the groups finances.
Pension and post-retirement benefit costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent professionally qualified actuaries.
Generally, the projected unit method is applied to measure the defined benefit scheme liabilities.
The group also provides medical benefits, which are mainly unfunded, for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, Miller and Latin America.
Miller provides post-retirement benefits, as well as retiree medical and life insurance benefits, which are unfunded, to eligible employees and their dependants.
During 2005 Miller revised its post-retirement arrangements.
The effects of the changes in plans and the capping of post-retirement medical healthcare liabilities resulted in a credit to the 2005 income statement of US$104 million US$63 million net of tax.
This represents the savings associated with past service and was treated as an exceptional item.
The pension and post-retirement medical benefit costs for the years ended 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 are as follows: 2006 2005 US$m US$m Defined contribution scheme costs 63 54 Defined benefit scheme costs 33 45 Post-retirement medical benefits costs 50 5 Pension accruals 9 7 Provisions for pensions 324 201 Provisions for post-retirement benefits 646 590 The group operates various defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
Details of the main defined benefit schemes are provided below: Miller pension schemes Substantially all salaried employees hired prior to 1 January 2005 are covered by the provisions of a qualified defined benefit plan which provides benefits based on final average pay and years of service.
Benefit accruals under this plan will cease as of 31 December 2007.
As of the most recent actuarial valuation, the salaried employee defined benefit pension plan had a surplus of US$60 million in the actuarial value of the plan assets of US$562 million compared to the actuarial value of the liabilities.
This represents a funding level of 112%.
Salaried employees hired after 31 December 2004 are covered by a qualified defined contribution plan.
This plan provides a basic contribution equal to 5% of an employees pay.
Employees hired prior to 1 January 2005 will be eligible for the 5% basic contribution beginning 1 January 2008.
Additionally, regardless of hire date, the company will contribute up to 4% of an employees pay to this plan, based on the employees own contributions.
Substantially all salaried employees are covered by a survivor income benefit plan and a long-term disability plan.
119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued Miller provides non-qualified defined benefit and defined contribution plans for certain employees whose benefits under the qualified plans are limited by regulation.
As of 31 March, 2006, the liabilities for these plans are US$18 million and US$2 million respectively.
Eligible hourly employees participate in defined benefit plans providing flat dollar benefits based on years of service.
As of the most recent actuarial valuation, the hourly employee pension plans had a surplus of US$27 million in the actuarial value of the plan assets of US$248 million compared to the actuarial value of the liabilities.
Eligible hourly employees also participate in various defined contribution schemes, some of which require the employer to contribute funds based on the number of hours worked by the employee.
The most recent actuarial valuation of Millers post-retirement benefit plans was carried out by independent professionally qualified actuaries at 1 January 2005.
The salaried employees plan was valued using the projected unit credit method while hourly employee plans were valued using the entry age normal method.
The principal assumptions used in the preparation of the pension valuations were an annual discount rate of 8% and a salary increase assumption of 4.5%.
During the year, Miller merged its defined benefit plans into a single defined benefit plan whilst maintaining separate benefit structures for various groups of eligible employees.
The company also changed a number of underlying valuation assumptions, including adoption of the RP2000CH mortality table and changing the valuation method for hourly benefits to the projected unit credit method.
Certain of Millers hourly employees participate in the Milwaukee Brewery Workers Pension Plan.
As part of the withdrawal settlement.
Pabst, which had participated in the plan prior to 1997, agreed to make annual contributions of approximately US$4 million to this plan until 2013.
The plans funded status net of the present value of Pabsts withdrawal payments at 31 March 2006 is set out below.
US$m Market value of assets 41 Present value of accrued obligations, net of Pabst withdrawal liabilities 79 Deficit 38 South Africa pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout South Africa.
Details of the material scheme are provided below.
The ABI Pension Fund the latest valuation of the ABI pension fund was carried out at 31 March 2004 by an independent professionally qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The main assumptions were price inflation of 4.5% per annum, a long-term investment return of 9% per annum, rate of salary inflation of 6% per annum and pension inflation of 4.3% per annum.
This valuation revealed a surplus of US$55 million in the actuarial value of the assets of US$89 million compared to the actuarial value of the liabilties and represented a funding level of 263%.
The market value of the assets as at 31 December 2005 was US$87 million.
From 1 July 2005 the Fund was closed, all active members were transferred to either the ABI Provident Fund or the SAB Staff Provident Fund and all pensioner liabilities were outsourced.
The Fund will be deregistered once the surplus apportionment exercise has been completed in terms of the Pension Fund Act South Africa and all assets and liabilities have been transferred.
Latin America pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout Latin America.
The Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan the most recent actuarial valuation of the Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan was carried out by independent professionally qualified actuaries at 31 December 2005 using the projected unit credit method.
The plan covers all employees employed before 1 January 1967.
All salaried employees are covered by social security provisions.
The principal assumptions used in the preparation of the pension valuations were a discount rate of 9.3% and a future pension increase of 4.7%.
Principal actuarial assumptions at 31 March expressed as weighted averages are as follows: Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits South Latin South Miller Africa America Other Miller Africa Other %%%%%%% At 31 March 2006: Discount rate 5.9 9.0 8.9 5.1 5.9 7.0 9.3 Salary inflation 3.5 6.0 4.5 3.9 4.7 Pension inflation 4.0 4.3 4.5 3.4 4.7 Healthcare cost inflation 9.0 5.0 5.7 At 31 March 2005: Discount rate 5.9 9.5 6.6 5.9 8.3 Salary inflation 3.5 6.5 4.7 Pension inflation 4.0 5.0 3.4 Healthcare cost inflation 10.0 6.3 There were no material medical and post-retirement benefits in the group for 2005 other than those in Miller and South Africa.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The present value of defined benefit plan and post-employment medical benefit liabilities are as follows: Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits South Latin South Miller Africa America Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Present value of scheme liabilities at 1 April 2004 931 43 42 1,016 462 40 502 Benefits paid 39 2 41 18 18 Current service cost 26 1 2 25 13 1 14 Past service costs 63 63 13 1 12 Interest costs 57 1 56 28 2 30 Actuarial gains losses 95 3 98 100 100 Acquisition activity 4 4 Disposal activity 1 1 4 4 Currency translation 1 1 Settlements and curtailments 27 27 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2005 1,007 47 38 1,092 545 44 1 590 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 17 9 26 545 42 587 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 990 47 29 1,066 2 1 3 Benefits paid 44 1 10 13 68 21 21 Current service cost 28 1 8 4 41 13 1 14 Past service costs 1 1 Interest costs 58 4 1 63 32 4 36 Actuarial gains losses 10 10 21 21 Acquisition activity 151 1 152 48 48 Currency translation 2 2 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2006 1,060 51 149 29 1,289 548 49 49 646 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 18 140 4 162 548 47 48 643 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 1,042 51 9 25 1,127 2 1 3 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The fair value reconciliations of opening plan assets to closing plan assets on an aggregated basis, are as follows: Defined benefit pension plans South Miller Africa Total US$m US$m US$m Plan assets at 1 April 2004 739 111 850 Expected return on plan assets 63 4 67 Benefits paid 39 39 Contributions paid by employer 96 96 Actuarial gains losses 15 15 Plan assets at 31 March 2005 844 115 959 Expected return on plan assets 67 9 76 Benefits paid 44 1 45 Contributions paid by employer 16 16 Actuarial gains losses 31 31 Currency translation 11 Plan assets at 31 March 2006 914 124 1,038 The fair value of assets in pension schemes and the expected rates of return were: Miller South Africa Latin America Other Total Long-term Long-term Long-term Long-term rate of rate of rate of rate of US$m return % US$m return % US$m return % US$m return % US$m At 31 March 2006: Equities 455 9.0 48 12.0 503 Bonds 316 6.5 11 9.0 327 Cash 2 3.0 48 7.0 50 International equities 136 9.0 17 12.0 153 Property and other 5 7.0 12.0 5 Total fair value of assets 914 124 1,038 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,060 51 149 29 1,289 Surplus deficit in the scheme 146 73 149 29 251 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 73 73 Pension asset liability recognised 146 149 29 324 At 31 March 2005: Equities 420 9.0 85 12.5 505 Bonds 294 5.6 9 9.5 303 Cash 1 1.8 5 7.5 6 International equities 124 9.0 13 12.5 137 Property and other 5 9.0 3 12.5 8 Total fair value of assets 844 115 959 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,007 47 38 1,092 Surplus deficit in the scheme 163 68 38 133 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 68 68 Pension asset liability recognised 163 38 201 122 28.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits South Latin South Miller Africa America Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2006: Present value of scheme liabilities 1,060 51 149 29 1,289 548 49 49 646 Fair value of plan assets 914 124 1,038 146 73 149 29 251 548 49 49 646 Unrecognised assets due to limit 73 73 Net liability recognised on balance sheet 146 149 29 324 548 49 49 646 At 31 March 2005: Present value of scheme liabilities 1,007 47 38 1,092 545 44 1 590 Fair value of plan assets 844 115 959 163 68 38 133 545 44 1 590 Unrecognised assets due to limit 68 68 Net liability recognised on balance sheet 163 38 201 545 44 1 590 In respect of South Africa, the pension asset recognised must be limited to the extent that the employer is able to recover a surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
The limit has been set equal to nil as the surplus apportionment exercise required in terms of the South African legislation has not been performed.
In addition the net income statement credit of US$4 million 2005: US$4 million is not recognised in the financial statements.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits Latin South Miller America Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2006 Current service cost 28 8 4 40 13 1 14 Past service cost 1 1 Interest costs 58 1 59 32 4 36 Expected return on plan assets 67 67 20 8 5 33 45 5 50 At 31 March 2005: Current service cost 26 2 24 13 1 14 Past service cost 63 63 13 1 12 Interest costs 57 57 28 2 30 Expected return on plan assets 63 63 Settlements and curtailments 27 27 43 2 45 1 3 1 5 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The amounts recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense are as follows: Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits South Miller Africa Total Miller US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2006: Actual return on plan assets 98 9 107 Less: expected return on plan assets 67 9 76 Return on plan assets 31 31 Experience gains losses arising as: scheme assets 31 31 scheme liabilities 4 4 18 Changes in actuarial assumptions 14 14 3 Actuarial gains losses recognised 21 21 21 At 31 March 2005: Actual return on plan assets 48 4 52 Less: expected return on plan assets 63 4 67 Return on plan assets 15 15 Experience gains losses arising as: scheme assets 15 15 scheme liabilities 21 21 35 Changes in actuarial assumptions 74 74 65 Actuarial gains losses recognised 110 110 100 The cumulative amounts recognised in equity are as follows: 2006 2005 US$m US$m At 31 March: 210 Net actuarial gains losses recognised in the year 42 210 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised 168 210 124 28.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued History of actuarial gains and losses 2006 2005 US$m US$m Experience gains losses of plan assets 31 15 Percentage of plan assets 3% 2% Experience gains losses of scheme liabilities 4 21 Percentage of scheme liabilities 0% 1% Fair value of plan assets 1,038 959 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,935 1,682 Deficit in the schemes 897 723 Unrecognised assets due to limit 73 68 Net liability recognised in balance sheet 970 791 Contributions expected to be paid into the groups material defined benefit schemes during the year after 31 March 2006 are US$59 million.
A 1% increase and a 1% decrease in the assumed healthcare cost of inflation will have the following effect on the groups material post-employment medical benefits: 2006 Increase Decrease US$m US$m Current service costs 3 2 Interest costs 9 7 Accumulated post-employment medical benefit costs 112 92 29.
Parties with significant influence over: Altria Group, Inc. Altria and Santo Domingo Group The Miller Brewing Company has received various services from Altria which holds 28.7% of the group, including insurance claims processing, leasehold accommodation and other administrative services, with an aggregate cost of US$0.2 million 2005: US$0.1 million, of which US$Nil 2005: US$Nil was outstanding at 31 March 2006.
Since 12 October 2005, the Santo Domingo Group SDG has been a related party of the group by virtue of its 15% shareholding in the group.
During the period since the transaction date, the group has carried out transactions with other companies in the SDG totalling US$5.2 million which include IT services and the purchase of assets.
At 31 March 2006, US$0.5 million was owing to the SDG.
Bavaria S. A. is jointly and severally liable with Valorem S. A. part of the SDG for the pension obligations of Avianca S. A. formerly part of the SDG but which was sold by the SDG in 2004.
Associates 2006 2005 US$m US$m 1 Purchases from associates 232 203 2 Sales to associates 1 1 3 Dividends received 71 47 3 Preference dividends and interest received 8 10 4 Management and guarantee fees received 4 7 5 Royalties received 2 3 1 The group purchased canned Coca-Cola products for resale from Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa Pty Limited Coca-Cola, purchased inventory from Metalforma, S. A. Industria Nacional fide Plasticos, S. A. and Envases del Istmo, S. A. in Panama and purchased malt and bottles from Delta Corporation Limited Delta.
2 The group made sales of beer to Tsogo Sun Holdings Pty Limited Tsogo Sun.
3 The group received dividends from Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales and Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd Castel of US$23 million 2005: US$23 million, Kenya Breweries Limited Kenya US$18 million 2005: US$3 million, Coca-Cola US$13 million 2005: US$6 million, Distell Group Limited US$12 million 2005: US$10 milllion and Tsogo Sun US$5 million 2005: US$5 million.
Preference dividends and interest were received from Tsogo Sun.
4 The group received management fees from Delta and guarantee fees from Tsogo Sun.
5 The group received royalties from Delta and Kenya.
125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Related party transactions continued At At 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 Cumulative funding to associates 1 interest bearing loans 61 2 equity: redeemable preference shares 64 3 equity: preference dividends accrued 4 4 Amounts owed by associates 2 5 5 Amounts owed to associates 20 15 1 Interest bearing loan provided by SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd SABSA to Tsogo Sun.
2 Cumulative redeemable preference shares held by SABSA in Tsogo Sun.
3 The group had accrued preference dividends of US$4 million in 2005 from Tsogo Sun.
4 Amounts owed by Delta and Kenya 2005: Interest received by SABSA from Tsogo Sun.
5 Amounts owed by ABI to Coca-Cola.
Guarantees 2006 2005 US$m US$m 1 Lease commitment 52 51 2 ABSA Bank Ltd facility 54 54 3 Investec Bank Ltd bridging facility 58 4 Investec Bank Ltd facility 62 106 225 1 The lease commitments of Tsogo Sun in respect of the Sandton Convention Centre are guaranteed by SABSA.
In return for its guarantees the group earns an annual fee of between 1.35% and 2% based on the outstanding capital amount drawn down under the related facility during the year of US$2 million 2005: US$2 million.
2 This is guaranteed by SABSA.
The total facility is US$91 million 2005:US$91 million Investec Bank Ltd has agreed to provide certain facilities to Tsogo Sun KwaZulu Natal Pty Ltd TS-KZN, a subsidiary of Tsogo Sun, for the development of the Suncoast Casino in Durban the Durban development.
These facilities are subject to various levels of support from SABSA and Johnnic Ltd Johnnic, the principal shareholder of Durban Add-ventures Pty Ltd DAV, which owns 40% of TS-KZN.
3 This bridging finance facility is used to fund the equity commitments of the shareholders to the Durban development.
This facility was guaranteed by SABSA until 1 November 2005, when Tsogo Sun replaced SABSA as the guarantor.
4 The total facility is US$97 million, 2005: US$96 million.
It is a senior debt facility to fund various assets of the Durban development.
SABSA and Johnnic entered into a sponsor support agreement in which they undertook that only if the licence is suspended, withdrawn or not renewed as a result of the conduct of TS-KZN, the sponsors would, in the ratio 60:40, at their election, either assume the obligations of TS-KZN in respect of the senior debt facility: or pay Investec any shortfall in the repayment of the debt owing by TS-KZN to Investec in respect of the senior debt facility that may arise after realisation of Investecs security of TS-KZNs assets.
The balance is guaranteed by Johnnic.
It is guaranteed until such time as the facility is repaid and the equity contributions of the shareholders are injected into TS-KZN.
This facility was 60% guaranteed by SABSA until November 2005, when Tsogo Sun replaced SABSA as the 60% guarantor.
The remaining development costs of US$32 million 2005: US$32 million are to be funded by cash flows generated from the development in the initial years of operation.
To the extent that the cash flow generated is not sufficient to meet the outstanding development costs, the shareholders of TS-KZN will be required to procure the remaining funding requirements in terms of their commitments to the KwaZulu Natal Gambling Board.
Castel During 2006, consideration of US$1 million was paid in relation to the investments in the groups Algerian associates.
Consideration of US$9 million including deferred consideration of US$4 million was paid during the year ended 31 March 2005, which related to the investments in the groups Algerian and Moroccan associates made during 2004. c. Transactions with key management The group has a related party relationship with the directors of the group and members of the excom as key management.
At 31 March 2006 there are 22 key management.
Key management compensation is provided in note 6c.
Transition to IFRS The group reported under UK GAAP in its previously published financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005.
The analysis below shows a reconciliation of the groups equity reported under UK GAAP to the groups equity reported under IFRS at date of transition and at 31 March 2005: a reconciliation of profit reported under UK GAAP to the profit reported under IFRS for the year ended 31 March 2005.
The transition from UK GAAP to IFRS does not change any of the cash flows of the group.
The IFRS cash flow format is similar to UK GAAP but presents various cash flows in different categories and in a different order from the UK GAAP cash flow statement.
Cash and cash equivalents under IFRS comprise cash and short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
The cash flow statement under IFRS explains the change in cash and cash equivalents, rather than just cash as under UK GAAP.
Reconciliation of equity at 1 April 2004 Effect of transition UK GAAP to IFRS IFRS Notes US$m US$m US$m Assets Non-current assets Goodwill 6,513 6,513 Intangible assets j 94 94 Property, plant and equipment f j q 3,758 86 3,672 Investments in associates e 928 8 920 Financial assets: Available for sale investments 284 284 Trade and other receivables k 70 70 Deferred tax assets b g l 132 132 11,483 202 11,685 Current assets Inventories f q 599 5 594 Trade and other receivables b k p 1,035 180 855 Investments k 31 31 Cash and cash equivalents k 651 31 682 2,316 185 2,131 Current liabilities Financial liabilities: Borrowings o 613 6 607 Trade and other payables b i o p 2,010 335 1,675 Current tax liabilities 160 160 Provisions m 42 42 2,783 299 2,484 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities: Borrowings 3,094 3,094 Trade and other payables 72 72 Deferred tax liabilities l 221 221 Provisions b 866 866 4,032 221 4,253 Net assets 6,984 95 7,079 Total equity 6,984 95 7,079 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Transition to IFRS continued Reconciliation of equity at 31 March 2005 Effect of transition UK GAAP to IFRS IFRS Notes US$m US$m US$m Assets Non-current assets Goodwill a 6,822 359 7,181 Intangible assets j 122 122 Property, plant and equipment f 4,162 106 4,056 Investments in associates a e 1,116 1,116 Financial assets: Available for sale investments 187 187 Trade and other receivables k 54 54 Deferred tax assets b g l 153 153 12,287 582 12,869 Current assets Inventories f q 634 7 627 Trade and other receivables k l p o 1,108 156 952 Current tax assets 56 56 Investments r 689 689 Cash and cash equivalents r 454 689 1,143 2,941 163 2,778 Current liabilities Financial liabilities: Borrowings o 813 2 815 Trade and other payables b i o p 2,568 627 1,941 Current tax liabilities 169 212 381 Provisions m 62 62 3,550 351 3,199 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities: Borrowings 2,526 1 2,525 Trade and other payables 53 53 Deferred tax liabilities l 188 188 Provisions b 796 131 927 3,375 318 3,693 Net assets 8,303 452 8,755 Total equity 8,303 452 8,755 128 30.
Transition to IFRS continued Reconciliation of profit for the year ended 31 March 2005 Effect of transition UK GAAP to IFRS IFRS Notes US$m US$m US$m Revenue 12,901 12,901 Net operating expenses a b c f h 11,152 798 10,354 Operating profit 1,749 798 2,547 Operating profit before exceptional items 1,705 427 2,132 Exceptional items 44 371 415 Exceptional items recognised after operating profit h 366 366 Net finance costs 167 24 143 Interest payable and similar charges d 263 24 239 Interest receivable 96 96 Share of post-tax results of associates a d e h 246 98 148 Profit before taxation 2,194 358 2,552 Taxation b d g 850 27 823 Profit after taxation 1,344 385 1,729 Notes to the reconciliations a Goodwill Under UK GAAP, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful life the group typically applied a 20-year life to goodwill, with the exception of goodwill in Amalgamated Beverage Industries ABI which has an indefinite life and was subject to annual impairment reviews.
Under IFRS, the amortisation of goodwill is no longer permitted and goodwill is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
As a result the amortisation charge of US$366 million recorded in 2005 was reversed and, as a consequence of this change, the profit attributable to minority interests also increased by US$22 million.
b Post-retirement benefits 1 Under UK GAAP, the costs of providing pensions and other post employment benefits were charged against operating profit on a systematic basis with surpluses and deficits arising allocated over the expected average remaining service lives of current employees.
Under IFRS, the impact on the income statement is that the unwinding of the discounting on liabilities and the expected return on assets are included in operating profit.
The impact on the balance sheet is that the full actuarial surplus or deficit is recognised.
The more volatile components of movements in surpluses and deficits actuarial gains and losses are recorded as a movement in shareholders funds in line with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
2 During 2005 Miller also revised its post-retirement arrangements.
The effect of the changes in plans and the capping of post-retirement medical healthcare liabilities results in a credit to the 2005 IFRS income statement of some US$104 million US$63 million net of tax.
This represents the savings associated with past service.
This has been treated as a one-off item.
The impact of all post-retirement benefit adjustments on the IFRS opening balance sheet as at 1 April 2004 is to reduce net assets by US$80 million net of deferred tax.
The reduction at 31 March 2005 is US$147 million net of deferred tax.
c Share-based payments Under UK GAAP, only certain share-based plans where the grant price is less than the market price at the date of grant resulted in a charge to operating profit over the performance period on a straight-line basis.
Under IFRS, all share-based awards granted after 7 November 2002 result in a charge to operating profit over the performance period on a straight-line basis.
The additional cost to the group in 2005 includes extra costs for certain share-based plans and results in the recognition of an additional pre-tax charge for 2005 of US$6 million.
d Presentation of associates Under UK GAAP, operating profit, net interest, taxation and minority interests included the groups share of associates results.
Under IFRS, the income statement includes the groups share of the post-tax and minority results of associates as one line before the groups pre-tax profit.
In order to assist comparison of results across segments, the group has presented an operating profit and EBITA measure in the segmental analysis which includes associates in the same format as subsidiaries.
e Application of IFRS to associates As a result of the non-amortisation of goodwill, profits from associates increased by US$15 million for 2005.
Other net charges of US$9 million for 2005 principally arose in respect of share-based payments, inventories, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
The application of IFRS, including the non-amortisation of goodwill, had a net impact of US$Nil on the groups carrying value of associates as at 31 March 2005.
129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Transition to IFRS continued f Agricultural assets Under UK GAAP, agricultural assets were not separately recorded.
Under IFRS, agricultural assets are recognised on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recorded in the income statement.
An additional US$2 million charge for 2005 relates to sugar plantations in Honduras and hop farms in South Africa.
g Taxation Under UK GAAP, the group recognised deferred tax on timing differences that arose from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they were recognised in the financial statements an income statement approach.
Under IFRS, deferred tax is recognised in respect of nearly all taxable temporary differences arising between the tax base and the accounting book value of balance sheet items a balance sheet approach.
This results in deferred tax being recognised on certain timing differences that would not have given rise to deferred tax under UK GAAP.
Excluding the net impact of deferred tax on post-retirement schemes, the IFRS impact on other deferred tax assets and liabilities is a reduction in net assets of US$108 million in the opening IFRS balance sheet and US$119 million as at 31 March 2005. h Exceptional items Under UK GAAP, gains and losses on the disposal of subsidiaries, associates, fixed asset investments and tangible fixed assets were shown as exceptional items below operating profit non-operating exceptional items.
Under IFRS there are no specific rules related to the presentation of exceptional items, but there is disclosure required of additional items where necessary to assist in the understanding of an entitys financial performance.
As a result, a US$355 million exceptional profit recognised under UK GAAP below operating profit has been reclassified into operating profit and US$11 million has been reclassified into share of post-tax results of associates.
i Dividends Under UK GAAP, dividends for the period were provided for in the results for that period.
Under IFRS, the dividends for the period are provided in the results in the period during which they are approved.
Balance sheet reclassifications j Capitalised software Under UK GAAP, software assets were included as part of property, plant and equipment.
Under IFRS, unless they are integral to an item of property, plant and equipment, software assets are recognised as intangible assets.
k Debtors Under UK GAAP, debtors were generally shown as one line in current assets unless they were deemed to be highly significant for separate disclosure on the face of the balance sheet.
Under IFRS, receivables due within one year are recognised as current assets and receivables due after more than one year are recognised as non-current assets on the face of the balance sheet.
l Deferred tax assets and liabilities Under UK GAAP, deferred tax assets and liabilities were shown as part of debtors and provisions on the face of the balance sheet.
Under IFRS, deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented separately on the face of the balance sheet.
m Provisions Under UK GAAP, provisions were presented as one line on the balance sheet.
Under IFRS, provisions likely to fall due within one year are recognised as current liabilities and provisions likely to fall due after more than one year are recognised as non-current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet.
Other IFRS adjustments Other IFRS adjustments result in an increase in net assets of US$16 million at 31 March 2005 and include the following items: n Buyout of minority shares in S. p. A. Birra Peroni and ABI Under IFRS on the buy out of minority interests in subsidiaries, goodwill is recognised as the difference between the value of net assets acquired and the consideration paid.
The buyout of minority interests in S. p. A. Birra Peroni and ABI increased goodwill due to changes within deferred tax.
As a consequence, this reduced equity attributable to minority interests by US$11 million and US$1 million respectively.
o Foreign currency translation Under UK GAAP, if a derivative instrument had been entered into which was linked to the settlement of a foreign currency asset or liability the exchange rate of the derivative could be used to translate the foreign currency amount.
Under IFRS, the closing rate exchange rate must be used with the derivative effect recognised separately.
In addition, exchange differences arising on the translation of IFRS adjustments to net assets, together with differences between IFRS income statement adjustments translated at average and closing rates, are shown as a movement in shareholders funds.
p Prepaid and accrued interest Under UK GAAP, prepaid interest was included as part of prepayments within debtors and accrued interest was included within accruals and deferred income within creditors.
Under IFRS, prepaid and accrued interest is recognised as part of the borrowings to which it is related.
Therefore, prepaid and accrued interest has been reallocated to current and non-current liabilities in the same manner.
q Spare parts Spare parts previously held in inventory under UK GAAP have been reallocated to property, plant and equipment under IFRS where the part is deemed to be a major spare part that will be in use for more than one year when installed.
Principal subsidiary and associated undertakings Principal subsidiary undertakings The principal subsidiary undertakings of the group as at 31 March were as follows: Effective interest in Country of Principal ordinary share capital Name incorporation activity 2006 2005 Central administration SABMiller Holdings Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Finance BV Netherlands Holding and finance company 100% 100% SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Africa and Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller International BV Netherlands Trademark owner 100% North American operations Miller Brewing Company USA Brewing 100% 100% Miller Brewing West Limited Partnership USA Brewing 100% 100% Miller Brewing East Inc USA Brewing 100% 100% Miller Products Company USA Intellectual Property Marketing 100% 100% MBC1 LLC USA Brewing 100% 100% MBC2 LLC USA Brewing 100% 100% Latin American operations Racetrack LLC USA Holding company 100% Axin y Cia S. C. A. Colombia Holding Company 99% 3 Bavaria S. A. Colombia Brewing Softdrinks Water 97% Cervecera Leona S. A. Colombia Brewing 98% Cervecera Union S. A. Colombia Brewing 96% Unin fide Cerveceras Peruanas Backus 3 5 y Johnston S. A.
A. Peru Brewing 93% 3 5 Cervecera San Juan S. A. Peru Brewing CSDs Water 75% 3 5 Compaia Cervecera del Sur del Peru S. A. Peru Brewing 84% 3 Cervecera Andina S. A. Ecuador Brewing 69% 3 Compaia fide Cervezas Nacionales C. A. Ecuador Brewing 92% Latin Development Corporation Panama Holding company 97% 3 Cervecera Nacional S. A. Panama Brewing 89% Bevco Ltd British Virgin Islands Holding company 100% 58% Corporacin Cervecera Hondurea S. A. Honduras Distribution company 98% 58% Cervecera Hondurea, S. A. Honduras Brewing CSDs 98% 58% Industrias La Constancia, S. A. El Salvador Brewing CSDs Water 100% 58% European operations SABMiller Europe BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% S. p. A. Birra Peroni Italy Brewing 100% 100% Ursus Breweries S. A. Romania Brewing 99% 99% Compania Cervecera fide Canarias S. A. Spain Brewing 51% 51% Dreher Srgyrak Rt Hungary Brewing 100% 100% Kaluga Brewing Company Limited Responsibility Society Russia Brewing 100% 100% 1 Kompania Piwowarska S. A. Poland Brewing 72% 72% 2 Pivovar Saris a. s. Slovakia Brewing 100% 100% Plzensk y Prazdr oj a. s. Czech Republic Brewing 100% 97% Miller Brands UK Ltd United Kingdom Sales and distribution 100% 100% 4 Pivovar Topvar a. s. Slovakia Brewing 48% 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Principal subsidiary and associated undertakings continued Effective interest in Country of Principal ordinary share capital Name incorporation activity 2006 2005 African operations SABMiller Africa BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% SABMiller Botswana BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% 3 Accra Breweries Ltd Ghana Brewing 43% 43% Botswana Breweries Ltd Botswana Sorghum brewing 31% 31% 3 Cervejas fide Moambique SARL Mozambique Brewing 49% 49% Coca-Cola Bottling Luanda Ltd Angola CSDs 28% 28% Coca-Cola Bottling Sud fide Angola SARL Angola CSDs 37% 37% Chibuku Products Ltd Malawi Sorghum brewing 31% 31% Kgalagadi Breweries Ltd Botswana Brewing CSDs 31% 31% Lesotho Brewing Company Pty Ltd Lesotho Brewing CSDs 24% 24% 3 National Breweries plc Zambia Sorghum brewing 43% 43% Nile Breweries Ltd Uganda Brewing 60% 59% Swaziland Brewers Ltd Swaziland Brewing 37% 37% 3 Tanzania Breweries Ltd Tanzania Brewing 33% 33% 3 Zambian Breweries Ltd Zambia Brewing CSDs 54% 54% Asian operations SABMiller Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller India Ltd India Holding company 100% Skol Breweries India Ltd India Brewing 99% South African operations The South African Breweries Ltd South Africa Brewing CSDs Holding company 100% 100% The South African Breweries Hop Farms Pty Ltd South Africa Hop farming 100% 100% Southern Associated Maltsters Pty Ltd South Africa Maltsters 100% 100% Appletiser South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Fruit juices and water 100% 100% 1 SABMiller Poland BV, a wholly owned subsidiary of SABMiller Europe, holds 71.9% of Kompania Piwowarska SA at 31 March 2006.
2 Pivovar Saris a. s. is 100% owned by BBG Austria GmbH, a wholly owned subsidiary of SABMiller Europe BV.
3 Listed in country of incorporation.
4 This entity reports its financial results for each 12-month period ending 31 December.
5 This is based on the effective economic interest.
The group comprises a large number of companies.
The list above only includes those subsidiary undertakings which materially affect the profit or net assets of the group, or a business segment, together with the principal intermediate holding companies of the group.
The principal country in which each of the above subsidiary undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
Where the groups nominal interest in the equity share capital of an undertaking is less than 50%, the basis on which the undertaking is a subsidiary undertaking of the group is as follows: African operations The groups effective interest in its African operations was diluted as a result of the disposal of a 38% interest in SABMiller Africa BV on 1 April 2001, in exchange for a 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests.
The operations continue to be consolidated due to SABMiller Africa BVs majority shareholdings, and ability to control the operations.
Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd SABMiller Africa holds a 40% interest in each of Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd with the remaining 60% interest in each held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Africas shares entitle the holder to twice the voting rights of those shares held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Africas 10.1% indirect interest 2005: 10.1% is held via a 16.8% interest 2005: 16.8% in Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. Lesotho Brewing Company Pty Ltd Lesotho Brewing SABMiller Africa holds a 39% interest in Lesotho Brewing with the remaining interest held by a government authority, the Lesotho National Development Corporation 51%, and the Commonwealth Development Corporation 10%.
Lesotho Brewing is treated as a subsidiary undertaking based on the groups ability to control its operations through its board representation.
The day to day business operations are managed in accordance with a management agreement with Bevman Services AG, a group company.
Coca-Cola Bottling Luanda SARL CCBL SABMiller Africa is the largest shareholder in CCBL with a 45% holding.
Management control is exercised through a contractual agreement with Bevman Services AG, a group company.
Pivovar Topvar a. s. Topvar SABMiller exercises full control over the company.
Principal subsidiary and associated undertakings continued Principal associated undertakings The principal associated undertakings of the group as at 31 March are set out below.
Where the groups interest in an associated undertaking is held by a subsidiary undertaking which is not wholly owned by the group, the subsidiary undertaking is indicated in a note below.
Effective interest in Country of Principal ordinary share capital Name incorporation activity 2006 2005 African operations 1 2 Delta Corporation Ltd Zimbabwe Brewing CSDs 22% 22% 2 5 Kenya Breweries Ltd Kenya Brewing 12% 12% 6 Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales France Holding company for subsidiaries principally located in Africa 20% 20% 6 Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd Gibraltar Holding company for subsidiaries principally located in Africa 20% 20% 3 6 Marocaine dInvestissements et fide Services Morocco Brewing 40% 40% 4 6 Socit fide Boissons fide IOuest, Algerien Algeria CSDs 40% 40% 4 6 Skikda Bottling Company Algeria CSDs 40% 40% 4 6 Socit des Nouvelles Brasseries Algeria Brewing 40% 40% 4 6 Algerienne fide Bavaroise Algeria Brewing 25% 25% Asian operations 6 China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd British Virgin Islands Holding company for brewing and bottled water subsidiaries located in China 49% 49% South Africa Operations 6 Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Canning of beverages 32% 32% 1 5 Distell Group Ltd South Africa Wines and spirits 30% 30% Hotels and Gaming Tsogo Sun Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Holding company for Hotels and Gaming operations 49% 49% Notes: 1 Listed in country of incorporation.
2 Interests in these companies are held by SABMiller Africa BV which is held 62% by SABMiller Africa and Asia BV.
3 SABMiller Africa acquired a 25% direct interest in this holding company on 18 March 2004 which has controlling interests in three breweries, a malting plant and a wet depot in Morocco.
This 25% interest together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests, gives SABMiller an effective participation of 40%, the other 60% is held by the Castel groups Africa beverage interests.
4 Effective 18 March 2004, SABMiller acquired 25% of the Castel groups holding in these entities.
Together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests this gives SABMiller participation on a 40:60 basis with the Castel group.
5 These entities report their financial results for each 12-month period ending 30 June.
6 These entities report their financial results for each 12-month period ending 31 December.
The principal country in which each of the above associated undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
However, Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales and Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltds Castel group principal subsidiaries are in Africa and China Resources Snow Breweries Ltds principal subsidiaries are in the Peoples Republic of China.
133 Statement of directors responsibilities on the company financial statements Company law requires the directors to The directors confirm that they have whatever steps and undertake whatever prepare financial statements for each complied with the above requirements inspections the auditors consider to be financial year that give a true and fair view in preparing the company financial appropriate for the purpose of enabling of the state of affairs of the company for statements.
them to give their audit report.
In preparing those financial The directors are responsible for The directors, having made appropriate statements the directors are required to: keeping proper accounting records that enquiries, confirm that: Select suitable accounting policies and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any as far as each director is aware, there then apply them consistently.
time the financial position of the company is no relevant audit information of which Make judgements and estimates that and to enable them to ensure that the the companys auditors are unaware: and are reasonable and prudent.
financial statements comply with the each director has taken all the steps that State that the financial statements Companies Act 1985.
They are also they ought to have taken as a director to comply with UK GAAP.
responsible for safeguarding the assets make themselves aware of any relevant Prepare the financial statements on of the company and hence for taking audit information and to establish that the going concern basis, unless it reasonable steps for the prevention and the companys auditors are aware of is inappropriate to presume that the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
company will continue in business.
In addition, the Companies Act 1985 The directors responsibilities for requires directors to provide the companys publishing the company accounts on the auditors with every opportunity to take internet are stated on page 58.
Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc We have audited the parent company whether the parent company financial appropriate to the companys circumstances, financial statements of SABMiller plc for the statements and the part of the Directors consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
year ended 31 March 2006 which comprise Remuneration Report to be audited have We planned and performed our audit the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
been properly prepared in accordance with so as to obtain all the information and These parent company financial statements the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you explanations which we considered have been prepared under the accounting if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is necessary in order to provide us with policies set out therein.
We have also consistent with the parent company financial sufficient evidence to give reasonable audited the information in the Directors statements.
The information given in the assurance that the parent company Remuneration Report that is described as Directors Report includes that specific financial statements and the part of the having been audited.
information that is cross-referred from the Directors Remuneration Report to be We have reported separately on the Other information section of the Directors audited are free from material misstatement, group financial statements of SABMiller plc Report.
We also report to you if, in our whether caused by fraud or other for the year ended 31 March 2006. opinion, the company has not kept proper irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion accounting records, if we have not received we also evaluated the overall adequacy of Respective responsibilities of all the information and explanations we the presentation of information in the parent directors and auditors require for our audit, or if information company financial statements and the part The directors responsibilities for specified by law regarding directors of the Directors Remuneration Report to preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration and other transactions is be audited.
Remuneration Report and the parent not disclosed.
company financial statements in accordance We read other information contained Opinion with applicable law and United Kingdom in the Annual Report, as described in the In our opinion: Accounting Standards United Kingdom contents, and consider whether it is the parent company financial Generally Accepted Accounting Practice consistent with the audited parent company statements give a true and fair view, are set out in the Statement of Directors financial statements.
We consider the in accordance with United Kingdom Responsibilities.
implications for our report if we become Generally Accepted Accounting Our responsibility is to audit the parent aware of any apparent misstatements or Practice, of the state of the companys company financial statements and the part material inconsistencies with the parent affairs as at 31 March 2006: of the Directors Remuneration Report to company financial statements.
Our the parent company financial be audited in accordance with relevant responsibilities do not extend to any statements and the part of the legal and regulatory requirements and other information.
Directors Remuneration Report to be International Standards on Auditing UK audited have been properly prepared and Ireland.
This report, including the Basis of audit opinion in accordance with the Companies opinion, has been prepared for and only We conducted our audit in accordance Act 1985: and for the companys members as a body with International Standards on Auditing the information in the Directors Report in accordance with Section 235 of the UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing is consistent with the parent company Companies Act 1985 and for no other Practices Board.
An audit includes financial statements.
We do not, in giving this opinion, examination, on a test basis, of evidence accept or assume responsibility for any relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the other purpose or to any other person to parent company financial statements and the whom this report is shown or into whose part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Chartered Accountants hands it may come save where expressly be audited.
It also includes an assessment of and Registered Auditors agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the significant estimates and judgments made London We report to you our opinion as to by the directors in the preparation of the 5 June 2006 whether the parent company financial parent company financial statements, and of statements give a true and fair view and whether the accounting policies are 134 Balance sheet of SABMiller plc at 31 March 2006 2005 Notes US$m US$m Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets 2 25 4 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 3 11,847 5,434 11,872 5,438 Current assets Debtors 4 1,965 1,448 Derivative financial instruments 3 Term deposits 250 Cash at bank and in hand 1 1 2,219 1,449 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 5 523 64 Net current assets 1,696 1,385 Total assets less current liabilities 13,568 6,823 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 6 2,561 312 Net assets 11,007 6,511 Capital and reserves Share capital 158 135 Share premium 6,099 2,010 Merger relief reserve 3,395 3,395 Profit and loss reserve 1,355 971 Total shareholders funds 7 11,007 6,511 This balance sheet was approved by the directors on 5 June 2006.
The notes on pages 136 to 141 form part of the financial statements.
Graham Mackay Malcolm Wyman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Advantage has been taken of the provisions of section 230 3 of the Companies Act, 1985, not to produce a separate profit and loss account for SABMiller plc.
Restated following the adoption of new accounting standards explained in note 1.
135 Notes to the parent company financial statements 1.
Statement of compliance SABMiller plc the company is a public limited company incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The company financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and with accounting standards applicable in the United Kingdom UK GAAP.
A summary of the significant company accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
Adoption of new accounting standards The company has adopted the following accounting standards with effect from 1 April 2005: i FRS 20 Share-based Payment ii FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date iii FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclose and Presentation iv FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement Details of the impact of these standards is explained in the notes following.
c. Investments in subsidiary undertakings These comprise investments in shares and loans that the directors intend to hold on a continuing basis in the companys business.
The investments are stated at cost less provisions for impairment.
A review for the potential impairment of an investment is carried out if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment may not be recoverable.
Such impairment reviews are performed in accordance with FRS 11. d. Foreign currencies The financial statements are presented in US dollars which is the companys functional and presentational currency.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date with the resultant translation differences being included in operating profit, other than those arising on financial liabilities which are recorded within net finance costs.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
All other non-monetary items denominated in a foreign currency are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on non-monetary items such as equity investments classified as available for sale assets are included in equity.
e. Tangible fixed assets and depreciation Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
In respect of all other tangible fixed assets, depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less the estimated residual value of each asset, evenly over its expected useful life as follows: Office equipment 2-30 years Leasehold land and buildings Shorter of the lease term or 50 years The group regularly reviews its depreciation rates to take account of any changes in circumstances.
The profit or loss on the sale of an asset is the difference between the disposal proceeds and the net book value, including any revaluation, of the asset.
Any amount in the revaluation reserve relating to such an asset is transferred directly to shareholders funds and is not included in the profit for the financial year.
f. Impairment In accordance with FRS 11 Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill, fixed assets are subject to an impairment review if circumstances or events change to indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
The review is performed by comparing the carrying value of the fixed asset to its recoverable amount, being the higher of the net realisable value and value in use.
The net realisable value is considered to be the amount that could be obtained on disposal of the asset.
When the carrying values of fixed assets are written down by any impairment amount, the loss is recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which it is incurred.
Should circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal of a previous impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which it occurs and the carrying value of the asset is increased.
The increase in the carrying value of the asset will only be up to the amount that it would have been had the original impairment not occurred.
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, income producing units are considered to be groups of assets and liabilities that generate income, and are largely independent of other income streams.
g. Financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transactions costs where applicable.
For those financial instruments that are not subsequently held at fair value, the group assesses whether there is any objective evidence of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are recognised when the company has rights or other access to economic benefits.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired or have been transferred and the company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
136 Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to transfer benefits and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver cash or another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments with another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised amounts of financial assets and liabilities, which are in determinable monetary amounts, the relevant financial assets and liabilities are offset.
i Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the company provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
ii Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank deposits repayable on demand, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Term deposits with maturities of more than three months are shown as term deposits on the balance sheet.
iii Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are financial instruments whose value changes in response to an underlying variable, require little or no initial investment and are settled in the future.
Such embedded derivatives need not be accounted for separately if the host contract is already fair valued, if it is not considered as a derivative if it was freestanding, or if it can be demonstrated that it is closely related to the host contract.
There are certain currency exemptions which the company has applied to these rules which limit the need to account for certain potential embedded foreign exchange derivatives.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are analysed between current and non-current assets and liabilities on the face of the balance sheet, depending on when they are expected to mature.
See note l for the companys accounting policy on hedge accounting.
iv Trade payables Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
v Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs and are subsequently stated at amortised cost and include accrued interest and prepaid interest.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
h. Turnover Turnover represents the net invoice value of goods and services provided to third parties and excludes value added tax.
Turnover is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are substantially transferred to the customer.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Dividend distributions In accordance with FRS 21, dividend distributions to equity holders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements of the company in the period in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
k. Share-based compensation The company operates several equity-settled share-based compensation schemes.
These include option plans with and without non-market performance conditions attached.
137 Notes to the parent company financial statements continued In accordance with FRS 20, an expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award granted after 7 November 2002 over the vesting period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
The charge is based on the fair value of the award at the date of grant, as calculated by binomial model calculations.
The charge is not reversed if the options have not been exercised because the market value of the shares is lower than the option price at the date of grant.
l. Hedge accounting The derivative instruments used by the company, which are used solely for hedging purposes i. e. to offset foreign exchange and interest rate risks, comprise interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Such derivative instruments are used to alter the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the company in line with the companys risk management policies.
The company also has derivatives embedded in other contracts, primarily cross border foreign currency supply contracts for raw materials.
In accordance with FRS 26, derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the company is required to document the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument.
The company is also required to document and demonstrate that the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument will be highly effective.
The company designates certain derivatives as hedges of the fair of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge.
i Fair value hedges Fair value hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated in a hedging relationship to manage the companys interest rate risk to which the fair value of certain assets and liabilities are exposed.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative offset the relevant changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item attributable to the hedged risk in the profit and loss account in the period incurred.
Gains or losses on fair value hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recorded in the profit and loss account together with the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
Certain derivative instruments, whilst providing effective economic hedges under the companys policies, are not designated as hedges.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify or have not been designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
The company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
m. Operating leases Rentals paid on operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Tangible fixed assets Short Assets in leasehold course of land and Office construction buildings equipment Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 3 1 4 Additions 599 23 Transfers 3 3 Disposals 1 1 At 31 March 2006 5 13 8 26 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 Depreciation 112 Disposals 1 1 At 31 March 2006 1 1 Net book amount At 31 March 2005 3 1 4 At 31 March 2006 5 12 8 25 138 3.
Investment in subsidiary undertakings Shares Shares 2006 2005 restated US$m US$m At 1 April 5,434 5,431 Adoption of FRS 20 2 At 1 April restated 5,434 5,433 Additions 6,406 55 Capital contribution relating to share based payments 7 4 Disposals 25 Impairment 33 At 31 March 11,847 5,434 The investment in subsidiary undertakings is shown as follows: 2006 2005 US$m US$m 1 SABMiller Holdings Ltd 5,179 5,179 2 SAB Ltd 217 217 3 SAB Management Services Ltd 2 2 2 SABMiller Africa and Asia Ltd 30 30 4 Miller Brands UK Ltd 14 5 Racetrack LLC 5,571 5 Racetrack Peru LLC 821 11,834 5,428 Capital contribution relating to share based payments 13 6 11,847 5,434 Notes: Country of incorporation Principal activity 1 England Group holding company 2 England Holding company 3 England Management services to fellow group companies 4 England Sales and distribution company 5 United States of America Holding company 4.
Debtors 2006 2005 US$m US$m Amounts owed by group undertakings 1,943 1,435 Other debtors 22 13 1,965 1,448 139 Notes to the parent company financial statements continued 5.
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2006 2005 restated US$m US$m Unsecured bank loans 390 Amounts owed to group undertakings 79 17 Taxation and social security 2 Derivative financial liabilities 1 Other creditors 6 32 Payroll-related creditor 14 10 Accruals and deferred income 30 4 Dividends paid to shareholders 1 1 523 64 6.
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 2006 2005 US$m US$m 1 US$300 million 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due 2033 293 294 1 US$2,000 million multi-currency revolving credit facility 1,944 1 US$2,400million revolving credit facility 301 Derivative financial liabilities 7 Deferred income 16 18 2,561 312 1 Further information relating to the revolving credit facilities and Guaranteed Notes is detailed in note 20 in the consolidated financial statements of the group.
Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds Profit and Share capital Share premium Merger relief loss reserve Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2004 as previously reported 127 1,383 3,395 137 5,042 Adoption of FRS 20 2 2 Adoption of FRS 21 269 269 At 1 April 2004 restated 127 1,383 3,395 408 5,313 Issue of shares 1 37 38 Conversion of 4.25% guaranteed convertible bonds 7 590 597 Profit for the financial year 979 979 Dividendspaid 413 413 Purchase of own shares 21 21 Equity-settled share incentive plans 14 14 Capital contribution relating to share based payments 4 4 At 31 March 2005 135 2,010 3,395 971 6,511 Adoption of FRS 26 at 1 April 2005 3 3 Issue of shares 23 4,089 4,112 Profit for the financial year 898 898 Dividends paid 520 520 Purchase of own shares 8 8 Equity-settled share incentive plans 10 10 Capital contribution relating to share based payments 7 7 At 31 March 2006 158 6,099 3,395 1,355 11,007 Further information relating to the share capital of the company is detailed in note 23 in the consolidated financial statements of the group.
Foreign exchange differences recognised in the profit for the year, except for those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value under FRS 26, were US$4 million.
Auditors remuneration for audit services was US$0.2 million 2005: US$0.2 million.
Employee information Employee costs recognised in the profit and loss during the year were as follows: 2006 2005 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 36 30 Share based payments 10 14 Social security costs 8 6 Other pension costs 3 3 57 53 For further information relating to share based incentive schemes see note 23 in the consolidated financial statements of the group.
The average monthly number of employees for the year are shown on a full-time equivalent basis and includes executive directors: 2006 2005 Number Number Number of employees 143 117 9.
Other information Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following: 2006 2005 US$m US$m Tax losses 5 5 Tax credits 15 6 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 2 Share based payments 14 5 36 16 2006 2005 US$m US$m Capital expenditure contracted but not provided 6 4 For details of guarantees provided by the company see note 27c in the consolidated financial statements.
At 31 March 2006 the company had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: 2006 2005 US$m US$m Land and buildings: Between two and five years 1 After five years 4 5 4 6 Other: Between two and five years 2 2 141
