INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Auditors SHAREHOLDERS OF SCOTTISH & NEWCASTLE PLC We conducted our audit in accordance with We have audited the parent company financial International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland Report, statements of Scottish & Newcastle plc for the year issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Company ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the Balance includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Sheet and the related notes 35 to 48.
These parent relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the company financial statements have been prepared parent company financial statements and the part under the accounting policies set out therein.
We of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
have also audited the information in the Directors It also includes an assessment of the significant Remuneration Report that is described as having estimates and judgments made by the Directors been audited.
in the preparation of the parent company financial We have reported separately on the Group statements, and of whether the accounting policies financial statements of Scottish & Newcastle plc are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, for the year ended 31 December 2006. consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys We planned and performed our audit so as to members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 obtain all the information and explanations which of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been we considered necessary in order to provide us with undertaken so that we might state to the Companys sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance members those matters we are required to state to that the parent company financial statements and them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not be audited are free from material misstatement, accept or assume responsibility to anyone other whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
than the Company and the Companys members as In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the adequacy of the presentation of information in the opinions we have formed.
parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS OPINION The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual In our opinion: Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the the parent company financial statements give parent company financial statements in accordance a true and fair view, in accordance with United with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement as at 31 December 2006: of Directors Responsibilities.
the parent company financial statements and Our responsibility is to audit the parent company the part of the Directors Remuneration Report financial statements and the part of the Directors to be audited have been properly prepared in Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the information given in the Directors Report International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
is consistent with the parent company We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements.
parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial Ernst & Young LLP statements and the part of the Directors Registered auditor Remuneration Report to be audited have been Edinburgh properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 20 February 2007 Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the parent company NOTES: Directors Report is consistent with the financial 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Scottish statements.
The information given in the Directors & Newcastle plc website is the responsibility of Report includes that specific information presented the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross does not involve consideration of these matters referred from the Business Review section of the and, accordingly, the auditors accept no Directors Report.
responsibility for any changes that may have In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, occurred to the financial statements since they the Company has not kept proper accounting were initially presented on the website.
records, if we have not received all the information 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the and explanations we require for our audit, or if preparation and dissemination of financial statements information specified by law regarding Directors may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Statement, Report of the Directors, unaudited sections of the Directors Remuneration Report, Operating and Financial Review, Corporate Governance Report and the other items listed in the table of contents.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
54 Financial Statements Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006
