Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Alternatively you may register your vote Notice of Meeting of Scottish & Newcastle plc will be held electronically as explained in the notes to the form at the Edinburgh International Conference Centre, of proxy.
Meeting 150 Morrison St, Edinburgh on Thursday 26 April 2007 To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting at 11.30am for the following purposes: and for the purposes of the determination of the Company of the number of votes a member may cast RESOLUTION 1 members must be entered on the Companys register To consider and adopt the Report of the Directors of members no later than 6.00pm on Tuesday and the accounts for the year to 31 December 2006.
24 April 2007, or if the meeting shall be adjourned, members must be entered on the Companys register RESOLUTION 2 of members at 6.00pm two days prior to the To consider and adopt the Directors adjourned meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy RESOLUTION 3 appointment service may do so for the Annual To declare a dividend.
General Meeting to be held on 26 April 2007 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures RESOLUTION 4 described in the CREST manual.
CREST personnel To re-appoint Mr I P McHoul as a Director.
members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting RESOLUTION 5 service provider s, should refer to their CREST To re-appoint Mr E J V Hartwall as a Director.
sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
RESOLUTION 6 In order for a proxy appointment or instruction To re-appoint Mr I G McAllister as a Director.
made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy RESOLUTION 7 Instruction must be properly authenticated in To re-appoint Mr B Wallace as a Director.
accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, RESOLUTION 8 as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, To re-appoint Mrs B Macaskill as a Director.
regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given RESOLUTION 9 to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors.
valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for RESOLUTION 10 receipt of proxy appointments specified in the Notice To authorise the Board to set the remuneration of Meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will of the auditors.
be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST RESOLUTION 11 Applications Host from which the issuers agent is To increase the maximum aggregate remuneration able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in for all Non-Executive Directors.
the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through RESOLUTION 12 CREST should be communicated to the appointee To authorise the Company to communicate through other means.
with shareholders by electronic means and CREST members and, where applicable, their to amend the Articles of Association.
CREST sponsors or voting service providers, should note that CRESTCo does not make available special RESOLUTION 13 procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
To renew the Directors allotment authority.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy RESOLUTION 14 Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST To authorise non-pre-emptive issues of ordinary member concerned to take or, if the CREST member shares in limited circumstances.
is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to RESOLUTION 15 procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service To renew the authority for market purchases provider s take s such action as shall be necessary of the Companys shares.
to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this Formal notice of Resolutions 11 to 15, together connection, CREST members and, where applicable, with an explanation, is contained in the Circular their CREST sponsors or voting providers are referred, Letter to shareholders dated 8 March 2007 in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual which accompanies the Report and Accounts.
concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
By order of the Board The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation Peter Kennerley 35 5 a of the Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001.
Secretary The following documents are available for 28 St Andrew Square inspection at the Registered Office of the Company Edinburgh during normal business hours and on the day of the EH2 1AF meeting at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes 6 March 2007 prior to the meeting until its conclusion: The full Report and Accounts is sent to all i the register of Directors share interests kept shareholders who have requested it.
Otherwise pursuant to Section 325 of the Companies Act the Annual Review is sent.
1985: and A member entitled to attend and vote may ii copies of all contracts of service under which appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, Directors are employed by the Company or any vote on his behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of of its subsidiaries: and the Company.
To be effective, the enclosed form of iii The Companys existing Articles of Association and proxy should be lodged at the office of the Companys the proposed amended Articles of Association with registrars not later than 48 hours before the time of changes from the existing Articles highlighted.
Shareholder Information Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 61
