1 in two large Western European markets, UK and France, and we are also No.
1 in two leading developing markets, Russia and India.
We have three brands in Europes top 10 Baltika, Fosters and Kronenbourg.
Wholly owned BBH Russian Federation BBH Other territories USA Joint venture in China Joint venture in India New territories USA IRELAND UK PORTUGAL BELGIUM FINLAND GERMANY FRANCE SPAIN ESTONIA LITHUANIA LATVIA BELARUS SWITZERLAND RUSSIA ITALY UKRAINE GREECE KAZAKHSTAN UZBEKISTAN CHINA INDIA VIETNAM 64 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 Our World No.
1 FINLAND UK & IRELAND FRANCE Market position share Market position share Market position share No.
2 36% 27% 35% Beer and cider volumes mhl Beer volumes mhl Beer & cider volumes mhl 17.5 6.9 1.9 Breweries Employees Breweries Employees Breweries Employees 2 1,000 5 1 cider mill 5,200 1 3,150 Ownership Ownership Ownership 100% 100% 100% Leading import No.
2 USA BELGIUM GREECE Beer volumes mhl Market position share Market position share 0.6 No.
2 12% 10% Breweries Employees 0 100 Beer volumes mhl Beer volumes mhl 1.1 0.4 Ownership Breweries Employees 100% Breweries Employees 2 1 cider mill 400 1 250 Ownership Ownership 100% 100% Venture No.
2 Markets PORTUGAL Market position share Beer volumes mhl No.
2 1.1 43% Breweries Employees Beer volumes mhl 0 200 2.9 Ownership Breweries Employees 100% 1 1,000 Venture markets include: Ownership Switzerland, Spain, Germany, 100% Italy, Canada, Sweden, Denmark, Channel Islands, Middle East No.
1 RUSSIA KAZAKHSTAN INDIA Market position share Market position share Market position share No.
1 36% 30% 47% Beer volumes mhl Beer volumes mhl Beer volumes mhl 35.0 1.3 4.9 Breweries Employees Breweries Employees Breweries Employees 10 11,000 1 650 14 4,500 Ownership Ownership Ownership 50% 50% 37.5% Ownership relates to S&Ns Ownership relates to S&Ns shareholding in BBH shareholding in BBH No.
5 ESTONIA LITHUANIA CHINA Market position share Market position share Market position share No.
5 47% 45% 2% 80% in Chongqing region Beer volumes mhl Beer volumes mhl 0.6 1.4 Beer volumes mhl 9.2 Breweries Employees Breweries Employees Breweries Employees 1 300 2 500 13 4,700 Ownership Ownership 50% 50% Ownership 17.5% Ownership relates to S&Ns Ownership relates to S&Ns shareholding in BBH shareholding in BBH NEW TERRITORIES: No.
3 LATVIA UKRAINE UZBEKISTAN BBH JOINT VENTURE Market position share Market position share SARBAST PLUS No.
3 42% 18% BELARUS Beer volumes mhl Beer volumes mhl BBH JOINT VENTURE 0.6 4.2 OLIVARIA BREWERY Breweries Employees Breweries Employees 1 400 3 1,500 VIETNAM JOINT VENTURE WITH VINATABA Ownership Ownership 50% 50% All joint venture figures are 100% of the business.
Ownership relates to S&Ns Ownership relates to S&Ns All volumes shown on these two pages shareholding in BBH shareholding in BBH relate to branded volume only.
Our World navyblue design group Scottish & Newcastle plc T 44 0 131 203 2000 28 St Andrew Square E enquiry s-n. com @ Edinburgh EH2 1AF www.
qxp 19 3 07 11:58 Page CV2 Scottish & Newcastle plc Annual Review 2006 www.
com REVIEW Back to the land Page 8 Fosters captures the wave Page 14 Along the Silk Road Page 16 Asia Partners Page 22 SCN-006 REVIEW COVER.
qxp 19 3 07 12:15 Page CV3 Board of Directors Our World SCN-006 REVIEW COVER.
2 UK & IRELAND FRANCE FINLAND Market position share Market position share Market position share No.
1 27% 35% 36% Beer & cider volumes mhl Beer and cider volumes mhl Beer volumes mhl 1.9 17.5 6.9 Breweries Employees Breweries Employees Breweries Employees 5 1 cider mill 5,200 1 3,150 2 1,000 Ownership Ownership Ownership 100% 100% 100% Leading import No.
2 12% 10% Breweries Employees Beer volumes mhl 0 100 Beer volumes mhl 1.1 0.4 Ownership 100% Breweries Employees Breweries Employees 2 1 cider mill 400 1 250 Ownership Ownership 100% 100% Venture No.
2 Markets PORTUGAL Beer volumes mhl Market position share No.
2 1.1 43% Breweries Employees Beer volumes mhl 0 200 2.9 Ownership Breweries Employees 100% 1 1,000 Venture markets include: Ownership Switzerland, Spain, Germany, 100% Italy, Canada, Sweden, Denmark, Channel Islands, Middle East SCN-006 REVIEW COVER.
5 47% 45% 2% 80% in Chongqing region Beer volumes mhl Beer volumes mhl Beer volumes mhl 0.6 1.4 9.2 Breweries Employees Breweries Employees 1 300 2 500 Breweries Employees 13 4,700 Ownership Ownership Ownership 50% 50% 17.5% Ownership relates to S&Ns Ownership relates to S&Ns shareholding in BBH shareholding in BBH NEW TERRITORIES: No.
Wholly owned BBH Russian Federation BBH Other territories USA Joint venture in China Joint venture in India New territories USA IRELAND UK PORTUGAL BELGIUM FINLAND GERMANY FRANCE SPAIN ESTONIA LITHUANIA LATVIA BELARUS SWITZERLAND RUSSIA ITALY UKRAINE GREECE KAZAKHSTAN UZBEKISTAN CHINA INDIA VIETNAM Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 01 SCN-006 REVIEW.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 2 Financial Highlights We are an international brand-driven, beer-led drinks business, delivering value growth in mature markets and volume growth in developing markets.
Our 2006 figures show the strategy continues to deliver results...
CONTENTS 27 Operating Review 01 Our World Corporate Responsibility 02 Financial Highlights 30 Summary Directors 04 Chairmans Statement Remuneration Report 06 Chief Executives Statement 33 Independent Auditors 08 Our Roots Statement 12 Our Planet 34 Summary Group 14 Winning with Brands Income Statement 16 Along the Silk Road 35 Summary Group 20 Pride of St Petersburg Balance Sheet Building the Baltika Brand Important Note 35 Summary Group 22 Asia Partners This document does not contain sufficient information Cash Flow Statement to allow a full understanding of the results and the state 24 Board of Directors of affairs of Scottish & Newcastle plc.
More detailed 36 Shareholder Information 26 Operating Review information, including the Directors Report and enhanced 36 Financial Calendar Group Summary business review, Directors Remuneration Report, full 37 Notice of Meeting accounts and the Auditors Report on those accounts, is contained in the Scottish & Newcastle plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2006 which is available on request from the Company Secretary or to view on the Companys website at www.
This Printed by J Thomson Colour Printers.
The paper used in this report comes from well document contains forward-looking statements based on managed forests independently certified according knowledge and information available to the Directors at the to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
date the document was prepared.
These statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking information and any 30% statements about the future outlook may be influenced Cert no.
TT-COC-002242 by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different.
com OUR WORLD Scottish & Newcastle is a leading brewer in many of the worlds most exciting beer markets.
We constantly seek to drive value in our mature markets and establish strong platforms in exciting emerging markets.
OUR PLANET We strive to reduce our impact on the environment by reducing our carbon footprint, investing in sustainable resources and encouraging recycling at all our production sites.
OUR CONSUMERS We seek to build our consumer base by innovating, building exciting brands and producing KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS high-quality products.
FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL OUR VALUES Total water use by We acknowledge our responsibilities Revenue m production volume hl hl as an alcohol producer, and seek 4,155 4.2 06 06 to promote responsible drinking in all our markets worldwide.
3,883 4.5 05 05 We seek to support our customers Total energy use by and suppliers in developing EBITDA m production volume kWh hl sustainable businesses.
715 32.7 06 06 666 37.6 05 05 OUR PEOPLE We seek to develop our people Total CO emissions by 2 and help them to rise to their full Operating profit m production volume kgCO hl 2 potential, to work in partnership 535 8.5 06 06 with stakeholders both inside 486 9.5 05 05 and outside the Company, and Serious injury rate to grow the business for the Profit before tax m per 1,000 employees benefit of our communities 452 22.9 06 06 and our shareholders.
397 37.2 05 05 Earnings per share pence % of waste recycled 35.6 94% 06 06 05 31.6 93% 05 All numbers relate to wholly owned companies.
Breakdown of operating profit % Breakdown of employees % Important Note Throughout this report comparable pro forma results for 2005 have been adjusted for the impact of acquisitions 1 1 and disposals, for the restructuring of the Becks contract and for the exchange rates used for Euros and dollars in 2 2006.
Unadjusted pro forma results for the twelve months 1 UK 37.9% 1 UK 15% to 31 December 2005 show actual results as they were 2 International 32.7% 2 International 44% reported at the time.
3 3 BBH 29.4% 3 BBH 41% All figures are given on a comparable basis.
All references to operating profit, profit before tax and earnings per share figures in this report are stated before exceptional items.
3 Revenue and profit figures include the S&N share of the 2 results of joint ventures and associates.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 4 Chairmans Statement Creating a unique investment balance Scottish & Newcastle has made strong progress throughout the year through our continuing strategy of developing a portfolio of brands across our markets worldwide.
his portfolio strategy has given us leading Our acquisition of Hartwall in Finland has OUR VALUES positions in key mature markets such opened the door to the vast and exciting markets Our responsibility to the communities in T as the UK and France as well as Baltikas of the former Soviet Union.
Scottish & Newcastle which we operate lies at the heart of our leadership of the massive and dynamic Russian is proud to be Britains biggest investor in Russia corporate philosophy.
Other parts of the BBH business, and outside the energy sector, and we look forward to The growing awareness of public health our joint ventures in India and China also give Baltikas continuing growth in one of the worlds issues in developed markets as well as our us exposure to new and exciting markets.
continued expansion into new and exciting In the UK, our four main brands Further east, our emphasis on partnership emerging markets brings different challenges Kronenbourg 1664, Fosters, John Smiths and is also bearing fruit.
As in BBH, S&N aims to be to our business.
Challenges that we are rising Strongbow together are continuing to grow seen as partner of choice.
to meet through developing innovative well ahead of the market.
As with BBH and the Russian market, our partnerships and solutions.
Promoting the In France, our three main brands joint venture approach in Asian markets is giving responsible consumption of our products Kronenbourg 1664, Kronenbourg Red and us brand leadership in India: regional volume in and targeting irresponsible drinking is a key White, and Grimbergen are also outperforming China, and a seed-corn new business in Vietnam.
priority for our business and I am proud of the the market as a result of renewed focus on leadership that is being shown by each of our brand development.
OUR PLANET businesses in their markets.
And following our successful integration of This year has seen an increased focus and Key stakeholders in the alcohol debate are our Russian businesses in 2006 the same broad awareness around the issues of the environment our customers and we are working alongside strategy has given us leadership of the massive and climate change.
This has the potential to some of our largest customers on this issue.
and exciting Russian market through the have a major impact upon our business especially Likewise we are endeavouring to be seen as strength and depth of the newly-integrated in terms of sustainable supplies of energy, clean strong partners for their businesses during times Baltika brand portfolio.
Thats why we have worked of change.
For example our teams are working As a result, we continue to benefit from in a sustainable way for many years to reduce the closely with the trade to use our positive value growth in our mature markets and volume way our business impacts on the environment.
experiences of the smoking ban in Ireland to growth in our developing markets, an exciting Over the last few years we have invested minimise the impacts on their businesses in the combination which gives our investors a unique in new projects, significantly reducing our carbon increasing spread of anti-smoking legislation balance of risk and reward across our many footprint for every pint of beer we produce.
We have reduced the amount of energy we Our products are brewed in local markets use, whilst increasing the amount of renewable from ingredients grown locally.
Our brands OUR WORLD energy we produce.
We are also reducing the are icons in their communities and we have a We remain undisputed market leader in the amount of water we use by 5% in 2006. responsibility to those communities to produce, UK and continue to outperform the market and But we are also investing for the future.
market and sell those brands in a responsible to grow value in one of the most competitive We are developing new and innovative sources and sustainable manner.
of renewable energy, which will deliver significant We are working with our suppliers to Our international businesses in France, energy supplies for our breweries further ensure their businesses are sustainable and meet Finland, Belgium, Portugal and the USA reducing our carbon emissions and removing high ethical and socially responsible standards.
continue to show steady underlying growth.
significant numbers of lorry journeys from our A key part of our supply chain is the agricultural To that we can now add Greece, where our roads.
These projects are not just limited to our sector and I am pleased that we are working on Mythos business is now wholly-owned.
developed markets in India our business has projects as diverse as planting a further 360,000 But the key to growth remains our success reduced fuel use by 9% last year and innovative apple trees in the UK or our contract farming in continuing to expand the horizons and drive rain water collection and recycling systems are initiative in India which is giving small farmers the aspirations of our business.
being extended to other breweries this year.
in India fair value for their crops.
It is now some years since we embarked Reducing the amount of waste that we on expansion, both at home and abroad, and produce is another key priority for us.
We now BOARD AND MANAGEMENT ISSUES our strategic successes are now clear.
In every recycle over 94% of the waste that we produce We are continuing to develop both our country where we are brewers, we are either and are working on ways to eliminate all waste Executive and main Board team, with experience market leader or in the position of challenger.
that goes to landfill sites over the next few years.
appropriate to our scale and geographic spread.
Our acquisition of Bulmers, when cider was The recent addition of Brian Wallace to the on the brink of becoming fashionable, has proved Board as a Non-Executive Director continues extraordinarily timely.
By applying our marketing this strategy, bringing a wealth of financial, expertise to expand the Strongbow brand, we are commercial and international experience now in the forefront of the cider expansion with to the Company.
the only cider portfolio with products across the entire market.
com Dr Neville Bain has decided to retire from Regulatory changes Recognising and meeting these risks and the Board following this years AGM.
I would Our businesses are located in a large number of challenges are an inevitable part of managing like to express the Boards appreciation for the countries, each of which has its own legislative the business.
In the past year we believe that considerable contribution Neville has made to and regulatory systems which can produce your Company has made strong progress.
the development and governance of the Group.
decisions that may affect the Groups business.
Brian Wallace has agreed to take over his role This includes health related legislation such as CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
restrictions on advertising of alcohol or smoking Trading for the first few weeks of the year Bridget Macaskill has agreed to join the Board bans, the regulation of competition in markets has started well and overall is in line with our from April of this year.
She brings to the Board which can restrict our ability to carry out certain expectations.
Going forward we are confident a wealth of financial and corporate experience.
transactions and variations in taxation or excise that we will achieve our top line sales targets I believe that the current Board has both duty.
In some countries in which we operate, 3%-5% as previously indicated.
The strength of strength, depth and balance to ensure good there is a greater degree of political intervention our brand portfolio and the momentum that we governance, and also provide guidance for the in such regulatory decisions, which increases the have achieved in BBH gives us confidence that Company both strategically and commercially.
risk of an adverse impact upon our Group.
we can manage the impact of short-term issues such as the smoking ban in the UK.
Furthermore, MANAGING BUSINESS RISKS Joint ventures our ongoing focus on costs should ensure that we Scottish & Newcastle has a comprehensive In our major joint ventures Baltic Beverages continue to develop our margins in the mediumrisk assessment and management process.
Holding in Russia, the Baltic countries and the term, despite the short-term impact of input In line with recent guidelines we set out below former CIS countries and United Breweries in price increases which we estimate will be around a non-exhaustive summary of the principal risks India we do not hold a controlling interest.
Cash generation remains a priority and uncertainties which we have identified: Although we do not believe we have been and we believe that we will continue to increase Clearly it is a fundamental part of our materially constrained to date by our lack ROIC on a sustainable basis over the long-term.
management strategy to recognise and respond of ability to fully control the decisions taken to these risks and the challenges that they pose.
within such ventures, no assurance can be given DIVIDEND that we will not be impeded from achieving The Board has proposed a final dividend payment Challenging conditions our strategic objectives in respect of these of 14.44p per share for the twelve months to In many of our western Europe markets we face companies, particularly if a joint venture 31 December 2006, an increase of 2.5%.
challenging developments such as declining partner is acquired by a hostile third party.
The final dividend will be payable on 2 May to consumption, consolidation of customers, shareholders on the register at 30 March 2007. increase of lower margin off-trade at the expense Fluctuations in input prices of the on-trade, expansion of discount retailers Our beer, cider and other drinks are produced and smoking bans.
We are responding to those from materials such as malt, hops and apples, conditions in many ways, including focusing on all of which are subject to fluctuations in price innovation and managing our cost base, to ensure due to factors such as harvest conditions.
Energy we are maximising our ability to invest in our usage in our manufacturing facilities is one of brands to drive growth.
In turn, this presents our main production costs and energy prices can the risk that we may not deliver the cost be volatile.
In some cases, due to the basis for Sir Brian Stewart, reductions required or may encounter difficulties pricing in some of our sales contracts or due to Chairman with the change programmes which drive such competitive markets, we may not be able to cost reductions.
immediately or fully pass on to our customers the increase in such costs, which could reduce our profitability.
Our responsibility to the communities in which we operate lies at the heart of our corporate philosophy.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 6 Chief Executives Statement Building a broad portfolio of brands In 2006, the strength of Scottish & Newcastles unrivalled portfolio of lager, ale, cider and other non-beer brands delivered real value in mature markets and dynamic growth in developing markets.
cross the Group we achieved branded programme has driven organic branded volume on leading our main markets in both new product sales growth of 8.9%.
In the UK, our growth of 5.8% and sales growth of 8.9% year and in technological innovation.
A four lead brands achieved share growth on year.
in their respective segments driven by continued Our continuing focus on marketing, with 2.
IMPROVING OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY investment in A&P and innovation.
Our top strong investment in A&P, has resulted in solid AND DRIVING DOWN COST three brands in France together with strong volume growth in our core brands including We have continued to optimise our production performances from Sagres in Portugal and 9.1% for Fosters, 9.9% for Baltika and 12.9% capacity across the Group.
For example, in France, Newcastle Brown Ale in the US are delivering for Strongbow.
we completed the sale of our Champigneulles growth in International.
In Asia, India and China Acquiring the Fosters trademark in Europe Brewery to Frankfurter Brauhaus, with a smooth are fast becoming key elements of future growth and the CIS has allowed us to accelerate the transfer of personnel, allowing us to concentrate and BBH continues to deliver outstanding results.
momentum of the brand across the Group, our production in this market into a single efficient Our return on invested capital ROIC for starting with the launch of the first brand factory at Obernai near Strasbourg, which now the year increased from 6.9% to 7.5% which extension Fosters Twist in the UK last July.
The move effectively removed comfortably exceeds our weighted average Innovation continues to be at the heart us from the low-margin own-label beer market.
We now have a positive of our success as we lead the industry in both In Belgium, we have centred all mainstream beer economic profit.
new product development NPD and technical production on our Alken Brewery, and have We are announcing a new phase of cost innovation.
In 2006 NPD was 16% of branded net announced the closure of our Jumet site.
savings that will deliver 50m across our wholly sales, compared with 10% in 2005 and 4% in 2004.
Our industry leading joint venture with owned businesses over the next three years.
We have launched three cider innovations distribution specialists Kuehne and Nagel, KNDL, This will be achieved by maximising efficiencies in the past 18 months Bulmers Original, is well established in the UK, with record service across production and distribution facilities, and Strongbow Sirrus and Jacques.
Together, these levels over the 2006 Christmas trading period.
through streamlining our back office activities.
brands have added 140bps market share in cider, The focus now turns to developing new business Our strong results have been achieved by driving half of the value growth of branded cider.
Progress has already been continuing to follow our four point strategy The competitive advantage driven in the UK made with the recent announcement that investing in our brands and innovation: by the Super-Chilled technology is now being Anheuser-Busch Europe Ltd has appointed KNDL improving operational efficiency and developed in other markets across our brand as its new distribution service provider in the UK.
driving down cost: portfolio in particular Kronenbourg Red & White We are taking further measures to mitigate building organisational capability: and in France and Maes in Belgium delivering strong the impact of rising energy costs while acting in investing for growth in existing and throughput increases in the outlets involved.
an innovative and environmentally responsible new markets.
Beer with food, and low and no-alcohol beer manner.
Working with the UK Carbon Trust These results show we are delivering are having a significant impact.
Building on the we have been identifying the opportunities on that strategy.
success of Sagres Bohemia in Portugal, we are for energy savings and carbon management.
now applying the same concept of associating As a result, we have in place a rigorous energy 1.
INVESTING IN OUR BRANDS the brand with food to Grimbergen.
efficiency programme to reduce both our energy AND INNOVATION Our brand and innovation investment plan costs and CO emissions.
A number of initiatives 2 We continue to develop our key brands across will continue.
We now have a pipeline of NPD are reducing both costs and impacts such international markets.
Our brand investment in both beer and cider as we remain focused as our ground-breaking plans for biomass plants Our continuing focus on marketing, with strong investment in A&P, has resulted in solid volume growth in our core brands.
com in the UK which could reduce gas demand by MARKET SUMMARIES centre which will be fully operational by early 40% and truck journeys by 4,000 per annum.
However, the resultant disruption S&N will continue to focus on the environment For the third year running, S&N has increased its to our wholesale business has led to a sales decline as a management priority going forward.
market share in the UK beer market, extending of 7.9% at a cost of 10m.
This disappointing result In addition, our focus on operational best its leadership in one of the most competitive is masking the extent of the French turnaround in practice and rationalisation of support functions markets in Europe, driven by its commanding branded beer.
A recovery plan is now in place for is also aimed at providing our sales and marketing portfolio.
The main beer brands, Fosters, the wholesale business over the next 18 months.
teams with high quality and efficient service.
Kronenbourg 1664 and John Smiths all gained In addition, we completed the sale of In support of this we are announcing a new phase share without sacrificing unit prices.
Champigneulles Brewery in Nancy, with minimal of cost savings across our wholly owned businesses S&N has seen strong volume growth in cider, disruption to the business: as a result, all of our which will deliver 50m over the next three years.
where we are clear market leader.
Whilst we have brands are now brewed under one roof.
At least This will be achieved by firstly maximising lost some volume share at the low value end of 15m of the resulting 20m annual cost savings efficiencies across production and distribution the portfolio following our complete withdrawal from Champigneulles will be realised this year facilities, and secondly through streamlining our from extra-fill, we have seen strong growth at with the remainder coming through in 2008. back office activities.
Geographically, the savings the premium end, driving positive mix for us, will be split broadly 50 50 between UK and as well as the sector.
ASIA International divisions, but the savings in 2007 The smoking ban will have a negative impact In South East Asia, our businesses are fast becoming will be UK weighted.
Around 10m of these savings on UK market volumes.
Our current projection is a key element of future growth.
In India, our joint will come through in 2007, with the remainder that the UK on-trade market will decline by around venture with United Breweries is showing strong split equally between 2008 and 2009.
We estimate 5% during the course of 2007, of which 2.5% is margin growth as we benefit from combining our the related restructuring cost at c75m.
the six month impact of the smoking ban, only operational and marketing expertise with our partly offset by increases in off-trade volumes.
BUILDING ORGANISATIONAL CAPABILITY The implied net impact on profit of the smoking with 25 breweries in all key states has given us We continue to attract and develop the best team ban is around 10m for 2007. market leadership in eight out of the ten main states.
Key to driving operational This development will reinforce the In China, our joint venture with Chongqing efficiencies across markets is the integration of importance of ongoing investment in NPD and Brewery gives us over 80% share of a market brewing and distribution arrangements under the the application of lessons learned from Ireland with more than 30 million consumers, a strong leadership of Stephen Glancey, Group Operations and Scotland.
Given our track record, we believe regional platform for future growth.
We have appointed we are well positioned to support the trade as We can also announce that we have signed a new Senior Management team in France, they work to manage this change.
an agreement with the state-owned Vinataba including a new Managing Director, as well as a group in Vietnam and received a licence from new Managing Director in Finland.
Both Managing INTERNATIONAL the government.
This is an exciting new prospect, Directors have been recruited from blue chip FMCG Across the International division, our key brands allowing us a low-cost entry into Vietnams fast companies, strengthening our international brand are delivering growth in Portugal, Sagres growing beer market, and continues our strategy management experience.
continues to gain share with growth of 5.8% of working with strong local partners where S&N and in the US, Newcastle Brown Ale has once is seen as partner of choice.
INVESTING FOR GROWTH IN EXISTING again had a great year.
AND NEW MARKETS In France, our primary focus on branded beer BBH Our overriding focus is to create economic has driven a combined share gain for our three Baltika, with its unrivalled portfolio across all sectors profit in the long-term, through realising core brands Kronenbourg 1664, Red and White of the dynamic Russian market, has evolved into 1 and redeploying cash into higher growth R&W, and Grimbergen up 110bps in the off-trade one of Russias leading consumer brands.
We continue to and 50bps in the on-trade.
This strong performance is now reaping the rewards of its successful realise value from under-utilised and non core has been achieved through refocused A&P spend merger with Pikra, Vena and Yarpivo, one of the assets in mature markets, either through sale or and innovation, for example with the roll-out of largest and most complex of its type ever seen in by forming specialist partnerships.
This principle Super-Chilled for R&W and the introduction of the Commonwealth of Independent States CIS.
has been applied through recent disposals of 1664 Blanc.
We believe this, together with new Across the Russian Federation, Baltikas trade loans and the creation of KNDL.
Whilst initiatives, will continue to drive brand growth brands lead each market segment.
Beyond the some of these transactions have been margin going forward.
Russian Federation, BBH continues to benefit dilutive in isolation, they have facilitated Following the introduction of the Loi Dutreil, from its first mover advantage in emerging significant investment for growth in both the beer category, and R&W in particular, has markets.
In Kazakhstan where BBH doubled its existing and new markets, for example, our seen an increase in display space.
We regard this capacity last year, volume grew by 35%.
BBH significant level of investment in innovation in as a very encouraging development.
We are also moved into Uzbekistan, where its new the UK, our investment in United Breweries, and currently undertaking the latest round of brewery in Tashkent is almost complete, and most recently, our intention to invest in Vietnam.
negotiations with retailers and have already has announced a new partnership in Belarus.
secured contracts that represent over 80% of our off-trade volume.
We believe that the overall positive trends of 2006 will continue in 2007.
In the on-trade we have made real progress on the turnaround plan.
We are substantially restructuring our 600-plus on-trade sales force and have established a new national contact Tony Froggatt Chief Executive 1 AC Nielsen data covering hyperand supermarkets.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 8 Our Roots Back to the land Beer has been central to our culture for centuries.
Beer inspires literature, and art, and celebration.
It is as old as civilisation, yet it is a social lubricant of our global world.
In moderation, it is one of lifes greatest pleasures.
Simple and wholesome, the blended combination of malted barley, hops, yeast and water can produce a myriad of flavours and tastes.
Our brewers use the finest natural ingredients, making us a major supporter of agriculture and farming in Europe, Russia and India.
com Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 09 SCN-006 REVIEW.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 10 Our Roots Rediscovering our roots Our booming cider business has been good news for British apple growers as we are planting new orchards and taking out long-term supply contracts.
he apple trees of Herefordshire are bearing tremendous fruit.
Cider is enjoying a T renaissance in the UK and S&N UK as the worlds leading cider maker is a principal benefactor.
A combination of increased investment and commitment to the cider-making process and intensive marketing, including a memorable television advertising campaign, has delivered a significant jump in demand.
2006 was a buoyant year for S&Ns cider brands and a new programme of orchard planting should ensure increased apple supplies for the next 30 years.
In 2006, Bulmers contributed around 4 million to the local farming economy.
The privately-owned In 2005, Strongbow sales grew by 17% and double-digit growth was repeated again in orchard owners had 30-year contracts to supply Bulmers, but those began to peter out at the time 2006 with a 17% sales growth.
What has emerged of the acquisition.
S&N has made a commitment to extending these contracts for a further ten years.
This leading cider has been able to move up the value chain, It was a welcome move for the rural economy, with every one of the existing orchards accepting evolving into a stylish premium drink.
Extra Cold Strongbow, served on draught, is enjoyed new terms for the supply of apples.
While S&N owns 2,500 acres of orchards, in metropolitan bars and fashionable clubs as an exceptionally refreshing drink.
with 6,500 acres of private orchards under contract, more acreage is needed to meet future demand Strongbow Sirrus, launched in 2005, is a full-bodied, smooth premium cider making for apples.
S&N is now preparing the ground for another 1,300 acres, with the trees producing dramatic inroads as consumers move away from alcopops to a drink with more taste and a more mature cider apples in seven years time.
To meet demand, a bottling line is also being refurbished natural heritage.
Strongbows continued growth has been a fillip to the business.
And the portfolio and reopened.
Harvesting begins in mid-September and is completed by early December, while the has been strengthened by the arrival of Strongbow Jacques, again served over ice.
This is lightly Bulmer mill in Hereford presses up to 1,800 tonnes a day.
This concentrated juice is then stored in sparkling premium cider, in 750ml bottles, imported from Belgium.
A blend of Belgian large tanks until it is required for fermentation.
This is all part of securing the long-term cider and fruits des bois cherry, raspberry and blackcurrant it is aimed at consumers future of cider making in the UK.
For S&N, cider is now an integral and thriving part of the global in metropolitan style bars and more discerning diners, who prefer to share something other than business.
In 2006, Bulmers Original joined Strongbow as essential elements of S&N UKs a bottle of wine.
In 2006, S&N relaunched its classic cider, Bulmers Original, served with lashings balanced portfolio approach, sitting alongside their premium beer brand cousins in off-trade of ice, which met with instant approval, selling over one million cases in its revamped form.
S&Ns marketing know-how in beers has been used to refresh the cider brands, bringing appeal to the younger generation of summer festival goers who enjoy their music along with an ice-cold cider.
In 2006, the Strongbow Ciderhouse, with its eclectic mixture of sounds and DJs, was an extremely popular tented venue at pop and rock events including the Isle of Wight Festival in June and the V Festivals in August.
Our cider business is the worlds biggest buyer of bitter-sweet apples.
The UK cider industry now uses 45 per cent of all apples grown in Britain, so security of supply is essential.
The increasing popularity of cider also guarantees a rural way of life which has gone on in Herefordshire for hundreds of years.
com S&N retains links with its past heritage with focused investment in regional brewers, including Edinburghs historic Caley Brewery.
Ale and hearty partnerships ask or Real Ale still has a special place and significant investment for these ales: and in the heart for many drinkers in the UK, will free up capacity at S&Ns Tadcaster Brewery C a demand S&N meets through its While these successful partnerships mean partnerships with regional brewers.
that S&Ns direct production of cask ale is These traditional ales, full of local character and reduced, it strengthens the commitment to real brewing heritage, are produced by specialists, ale.
We will continue to be one of the largest who have been able to focus resources, investment wholesalers and distributors in the market, and know-how on their brands.
with annual delivered volumes of over 300,000 While S&N UK is committed to concentrating barrels.
S&N UK continues to provide access on its core premium brands including John Smiths, and distribution facilities to a large number by far Britains biggest ale we have been keen of the UKs independent brewing businesses to initiate innovative transactions in the cask ale providing the very best range of regional and brewing sector.
The sale of the Theakston portfolio, national cask ales.
now back in the hands of its founding family, is And finally, lets not forget Newcastle Brown the perfect example of how this relationship works Ale, a wholly-owned brand celebrating its 80th best creating a new business, free to develop year this year, which, while retaining its traditional in its own right: but with the backing of S&Ns following in the North East of England, has customer base and state-of-the-art supply chain.
become the key to S&Ns spectacular success Our investment in the Caledonian Brewery in the American import market.
More than half in Edinburgh enabled us to find a new home for the brewery output of Newcastle, as it is McEwans ales and it has given us access to known in America, now crosses the Atlantic.
popular local beers such as Deuchars IPA.
Ale is reaching a new generation of followers More recently, the sale of the Courage brands to around the world.
Wells & Youngs has provided a new lease of life Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 11 SCN-006 REVIEW.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 12 Our Planet Heart of glass Finland can boast one of the most  breweries in the world the ultra-modern plant at Lahti, north of Helsinki, flagship of our group-wide recycling strategy.
harply rising energy costs, unpredictable But once in place, this renewable energy source and volatile energy prices, global warming could cut the breweries gas usage by at least S the incentives for radical action on energy 40% and reduce our carbon emissions by a consumption have never been greater.
For years further 18,000 tonnes a year.
And with no weve been tweaking and improving our efficiency, spent grain to get rid of, we could cut out says Head of Environment Support Andrew Bright.
over 4,000 truck movements a year, reducing But now were ready to make a real step change.
CO emissions by another 400 tonnes a year.
2 We want to start decoupling ourselves from All in all, thats a big step towards a the fossil fuel market altogether, by generating smaller footprint.
Already, S&N has made great strides in reducing energy consumption.
Since 2000 weve cut the energy required to produce a glass of beer by 27%.
And our carbon footprint has shrunk dramatically: over the same period we reckon weve saved over 130,000 tonnes of direct and indirect CO emissions.
2 In 2006 alone we achieved a further 8.8% improvement, cutting CO emissions by another 2 30,000 a year.
And we keep finding new ways to make really large savings.
At our Berkshire Brewery, for example, we cut electricity use by almost a fifth by introducing new refrigeration technology.
This one project slashed 8.5% off our entire UK manufacturing electricity consumption.
In France, a series of process improvements reduced the amount of energy needed to produce a bottle of Kronenbourg by 10.5%.
The cut in CO 2 emissions was even greater a 21% reduction, saving 6,000 tonnes a year.
Strategically, energy costs have been a growing headache in recent years as the energy markets have grown increasingly unpredictable.
But what if we could just bypass the energy markets?
Producing our own energy would give us cost base stability as well as reducing our carbon footprint.
For example, were already recovering biogas from effluent at three breweries in France, Portugal and the UK.
This is methane, which would otherwise be released into the atmosphere and methane has a far greater greenhouse effect than CO. 2 By burning it as fuel instead, we can cut a brewerys gas bill by up to 10%.
This year were introducing the technology to a second UK brewery, at Tadcaster.
At our Bulmers cider mill in Hereford we already have two small wind turbines providing modest amounts of power for water heating and lighting.
Were now exploring the feasibility of a large scale turbine to generate significant amounts of power at one of our breweries.
But the greatest potential contribution could come from biomass.
Our breweries produce huge amounts of spent grain, which has to be disposed of.
Were currently working on ground-breaking technology for burning this waste product to generate steam and electricity.
It wouldnt be cheap to install: around Ultra modern: inside Lahti Brewery in Finland.
12 million of investment for just two UK breweries.
com Water of life or Indian farmers, water is a precious commodity with a poor sense of timing.
F Theres too much in the monsoon season, and too little when they really need it.
Farmers are our partners they grow the barley we need for brewing.
So were doing what we can to help.
One thing we can do is use less water ourselves.
It takes a lot of water to make a litre of beer our Indian breweries were averaging 9.2 litres.
But by transferring best practice from Europe, weve got that down to 7.5 litres in just two years.
At our Palakkad Brewery, weve won an award for our rainwater harvesting scheme.
We collect as much water as possible during the monsoon in July and August, and distribute it in the dry season to a nearby village that weve adopted.
Its working so well that were introducing similar schemes at two more breweries this year.
Weve also developed a contract farming initiative, starting in Punjab, Rajasthan and Karnataka.
As well as ensuring that small farmers have the opportunity to get fair value for their crops, its also enabling them to improve their farming methods.
Weve been helping them to produce barley in a more environmentally friendly way, without chemicals.
And, most importantly, weve introduced barley varieties better suited to local conditions, which means the farmers dont need so much irrigation water.
RICE BEER SAVES OIL Weve created a new market for rice farmers in India, by burning waste rice husks as fuel for steam-raising boilers.
In 2006 we installed two rice husk burners and saved about 2,350 tonnes of oil.
This year were installing four more.
Millions of green bottles hatever its colour, our packaging Last years redesign of Kanterbrau bottles is pretty green.
Some 95% of our means 4,000 tonnes less glass to buy and transport W production comes in containers each year.
Because we can get that are reusable beer kegs, returnable bottles more of the thinner bottles on a pallet, our delivery or recyclable cans, one-trip bottles.
fleet needs 1,000 fewer truckloads each year, But which is better: a returnable bottle or a at an average of 150km each.
A few years ago, you might have Returnables still have their place.
In Finland, chosen returnables without hesitation.
But as for example, we share a single population of our markets get better at recycling, the argument returnable bottles with the whole drinks industry.
But across Europe and now with US exports of Returnable bottles have to be thicker and Newcastle, the trend to one-trip looks more stronger increasing the resources needed and more like a one-way street.
When theyre returned, theyre cleaned with hot water and CANNIER CANS chemicals, which means further environmental Weve also invested in new packaging lines that impacts.
To be cost-effective they must average can use thinner cans.
As a result, last year we cut 15-20 trips getting more scuffed and the weight by about 6%, saving some 1,230 tonnes unappealing each time.
No wonder our marketers prefer shiny new one-trip bottles.
Glass can be recycled indefinitely, PET PROJECT and recycling uses 50% less energy in the glass Were saving plastic, too.
Last year we improved factory.
Our one-trip bottles are now up to 80% the design of our water bottles in Portugal, saving recycled, and were making them thinner and 190 tonnes of PET plastic a year and cutting S&Ns lighter.
Recent thinner designs have saved 6% of total PET purchases by 16%.
our total glass purchases 20,000 tonnes a year.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 14 Winning with Brands Fosters captures the wave It stands for summer sun, surfing and beach barbecues Fosters has a worldwide image of fun in the sun.
So we bought-out the brand to keep the beach boys and girls happy.
SMOKING BANS The lighters are going UK Scotland introduced a total smoking ban on 26 March 2006.
Northern Ireland and Wales out all across Europe... follow suit in April 2007.
Englands ban starts in July 2007. nce upon a time smoking and drinking directly or by working closely with the local trade in bars went hand in hand.
Over the short-term, S&N has been able Belgium O cigarettes were the little luxuries of life.
to offer advice and help with the creation of Smoking has been prohibited in all Not any more.
The smoking ban in public places separate outdoor smoking areas and the enclosed public spaces, excluding hotels, is an undoubted challenge for bars and clubs introduction of outdoor heaters, patios and restaurants and caterers HORECA since across Europe, especially in cultures where umbrellas.
Longer-term, however, S&N believes 1 January 2006. a cigarette and alcoholic beverage have long it is critical for all on-trade customers to have a gone together.
plan to mitigate losses and use the opportunity But S&N has witnessed a change in on-trade to develop inside areas to attract new drinkers, France dynamics since Ireland banned smoking in 2004 diners and families.
There is no doubt that Smoking has been banned in all public and Scotland followed suit in March 2006.
Oldera ban on smoking in public places will have a places from February 2007.
Cafs, nightclubs style traditional bars have suffered, while more fundamental impact on consumer habits across and restaurants have until January 2008 up-market family-friendly establishments have Europe, and it will be up to each outlet to adapt or to adapt.
been able to attract new customers.
Now with face an uncertain future.
S&N sees an important the rest of the UK following suit, closely followed business role in easing this change.
Finland by France, Belgium, Finland, and eventually The Finnish parliament has banned smoking Portugal, there is much to learn about its impact.
in bars and restaurants from June 2007.
S&N sees the smoking bans in larger nations as a disruption to its on-trade markets in the Greece short-term, but has adopted a positive approach accepting that a ban will ultimately lead to an A ban on smoking in public places was improved customer experience.
All public places There is complexity about how each nation and companies must now have defined has been tackling the legislation.
regulations are in effect in Belgium and Finland, while Portugal, France and Greece where a Portugal smoking ban has been in place since 2002 Smoking in public places is restricted and are all grappling with the issues of how to it is expected that Portugal will also forbid maintain goodwill and public order.
smoking in enclosed restaurants, coffee Throughout 2006, S&N conducted extensive shops and bars in the near future.
seminars and workshops to ensure that on-trade customers are aware of how do deal with this 14 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 SCN-006 REVIEW.
com n less than a year since S&N bought-out the European rights to Fosters, sales have moved Ismartly ahead.
In 2005, about 80% of Fosters worldwide sales came from S&N in Europe.
In 2006, that figure jumped to some 85%.
European sales outside the UK rose 20% last year without entering any new markets.
And Fosters is also making great strides in the UK, where its a mature brand.
While overall UK beer volume fell 1.5% in 2006, Fosters volumes rose 8.7%.
In just two years, theyve grown by a fifth.
Before the buy-out, every initiative from Most of the growth is coming from our focus advertising to new products had to be signed-off on five markets: Russia, Finland, Ireland, France through a time-consuming global chain of and Germany.
While Fosters is a mainstream command.
Now were moving as fast as we want.
lager in the UK, elsewhere its a premium lager.
In the UK, weve rapidly rolled-out the In this category its a top five brand in France extraordinarily successful Super-Chilled and Germany and already No.
2 in Finland, dispensers replacing about 60% of the less than two years after launch.
countrys Fosters taps so far.
And for bars But the big growth story is Russia.
In its that dont have single taps, in 2007 were second year, Fosters more than doubled its introducing a multiple Super-Chilled dispenser.
We have Within a couple of months of the rights deal the opportunity to do at least as well in 2007, wed launched our first brand extension Fosters and to keep growing in double digits for the Twist.
This bottled lager with a citrus tang is foreseeable future.
Weve made a fantastic a premium product that appeals to both sexes.
start and can go a whole lot further.
It takes the brand into new territory, and new Baltika, owned by our BBH joint venture, is the drinking occasions which means a further Russian market leader by far.
And Fosters is now boost to Fosters volumes.
an essential part of the St Petersburg portfolio.
As we build in Russia well says brand manager Rick Lawrence.
That goal extend into BBHs other markets, which offer is getting closer.
Last year Fosters edged up the opportunity to build large and sustainable to No.
2, and it continues to gain market share.
Weve just launched Twist in Meanwhile, its growing fast in the rest Ireland.
Well take further steps to redefine the of Europe.
In 2005 it grew 13%, says brand brand in Europe.
And more innovations in the development director Dmitry Shirshov.
Last year pipeline will broaden the brands reach.
It may we pushed it to 20%, and we expect to keep not be effortless, but were certainly enjoying accelerating in 2007. life with Fosters Making a Not just beer... n todays health and fitness conscious markets, Given Hartwalls record of product meal of it innovation, the results should be interesting theres growing demand for non-alcoholic and not just for Finland.
To attract new customers Ialternatives and we have a substantial n 2005 we launched a new beer category to the non-smoking, caf-style pubs of the portfolio of them.
in Portugal with Sagres Bohemia beer to future, fresh ideas will be at a premium.
Could In Russia we have Baltika Zero, the giant of Idrink with food.
Within months, Bohemia Hartwall be the company to provide them?
the non-alcoholic beer world with annual sales had become the best-selling beer in restaurants.
Its not our only Last year sales climbed to more than 14 million non-alcoholic beer brand in France, for example, litres, boosted by the launch of a second product, we have two.
But it outsells them both by about Bohemia 1835, and were expecting double-digit 10 to one.
In Portugal we produce the market leading Encouraged by this success, in early 2006 mineral water, Luso, in still, sparkling and we began promoting our premium abbey beer, flavoured variants.
Last year we launched a Grimbergen, as beer with food in Belgium.
weightwatchers range with added soluble fibre.
It worked: volume grew over 12% last year In Finland our local business, Hartwall, has to more than 10.4 million litres.
over half the mineral water market and 42% of The campaign included advertising, PR and the soft drinks market.
Its fruity Jaffa range is the point of sale promotions.
We drove traffic to countrys second most popular soft drink brand, participating brasseries by listing them in local and it also produces Pepsi under licence.
papers, says speciality beer manager Lies This powerful portfolio is proving a real Eeckman.
And we also ran supermarket strength right now.
A supermarket price war promotions tied to the beer with food story.
focused on beer has driven down prices and Although inspired by Bohemias success, the margins.
In response weve focused on higherBelgian campaign was developed independently margin premium brands including Fosters.
But this year Lies does But until beer margins recover, says marketing intend to follow Bohemias lead by featuring director Andy Neal, were still getting good, endorsements from well-known chefs.
profitable growth from our non-alcoholic portfolio.
Today, Belgium is no longer Grimbergens We reach virtually every type of customer.
Thats now France where So this year our strategy is to break out of wines place on the meal table remains category thinking.
Were looking at all the apparently unassailable.
Is France ready for beverages people drink through the day to see a beer with food campaign?
There are plans what occasions we can target for growth.
to promote Kronenbourg 1664 for drinking with snacks.
Its a start Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 15 SCN-006 REVIEW.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 16 Along the Silk Road Along the Silk Road For more than eight centuries, traders on horseback and camel caravan followed in the footsteps of Marco Polo along the Great Silk Road.
Today, through mountain passes and across the high steppes, railway wagons haul gleaming machinery and steelwork from the Far East for new breweries in the region.
Welcome to Kazakhstan, at the crossroads of Europe and Asia.
com e Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 17 SCN-006 REVIEW.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 18 Along the Silk Road In the path of the snow leopard Kazakhstans national symbol is the elusive snow leopard the irbis which is much more ubiquitous as one of the countrys best-known beer brands.
S&N, through its stake in BBH, has put investment behind all its locally-produced quality Kazakh beers.
At the crossroads of the world, where the contemporary mixes with the ancient and exotic, quality beer is an elixir of change.
com Booming Baltics he three Baltic nations of Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia continue to evolve as smaller, T independent nations within the European Union with distinctive characteristics and selfThe snow leopard or irbis is the national confidence.
And aficionados of the Eurovision symbol of Kazakhstan.
This beautiful wild animal Song Contest will testify that Lithuania is a represents the nations noble and free spirit, unique Nordic nation where both music and roaming the snow-capped mountains and the the beer have a certain froth.
In 1998, the Irbis Brewing BBH Baltics, a subsidiary of BBH in the new Company started brewing a small-scale Baltic countries, has been the runaway market local brand using this name.
Today Irbis leader utilising huge energy and vision.
The beer is the undoubted leader in the premium brands, using heritage and supreme quality as beer segment.
Meanwhile Derbes, meaning their calling cards, have tapped into the sense of independent in Kazakh and a popular national optimism and emerging opportunity in the three beer brand, with a non-alcoholic option, states.
But as the market matures, future double and Alma-Ata, a pilsner-style beer named digit growth is unlikely.
after the former Kazakh capital, home of the BBH Baltics, with four breweries, retains the brewery and the nations cultural heartland, market leading position in all three states with are essential parts of the balanced portfolio.
In Estonia, Since S&Ns involvement, through its BBH the Saku brand has 47.4%, with Saku Kuld the joint venture, there has been a radical reshaping countrys leading premium brand.
In Latvia, of the business at the Ak-Nar Brewery, resulting in Aldaris has a 41.6% share, while in Lithuania, a re-launch of the local products in 2005.
Vibrant, with the Svyturys beer brand, the fourth most eye-catching advertising and marketing, coupled prized consumer brand in the country, we have with cool and refreshing products, have provoked a 45% market share.
Across the Baltic states, a sensational response, with beer consumers in there is a combined total consumption of six Kazakhstan dedicated and loyal to these modern million hectolitres.
But the Baltic countries are youthful nations, This paid handsome dividends in 2006. with an increasing per capita GDP, while tourist Kazakhstan had double-digit growth of over numbers, especially from Germany and Poland, 15% in beer sales in 2006, with S&Ns partners are increasing.
Synergy and innovation is ensuring talking a market share of 30%, up 4% from 2005. that the Baltic brands remain in first place.
For Baltika, now being produced under licence in this, a new light beer brand called DLight, with Kazakhstan, accounts for over 12% of this market, added fruit and specifically aimed at women, has while the rest are the strong local names.
It is showing early In 2006, per capita consumption was 31 litres growth while sales of chilled Baltic cider are he Republic of Kazakhstan is an per head but this is rising rapidly as the beerincreasing.
While the Baltic national beers remain outstandingly beautiful place, larger drinking adults within the 16 million population modest in terms of total volumes, the premium T in size than Western Europe.
To meet the demand, brands with export potential are strategically some of this steppe lies west of the Ural the renamed Derbes Brewing Company has important elements in S&Ns global portfolio.
mountains, so it is technically a part of doubled capacity in Almaty, while distribution Europe.
And Kazakhstan, with nearly 16 has been increased across the whole country, million people, is a modern, culturallyincluding the new northern capital, Astana.
diverse nation which is progressive and S&N, through BBH, is also developing highly educated.
Its consumers are able a new green-field site brewery in neighbouring to make their own choices and they are Uzbekistan, teaming up with local joint venture now enjoying high-quality beers in an partner to form Sarbast Plus.
population of 27 million is significantly more This vast country borders Russia, than sparsely-populated Kazakhstan, so there are China, and the central Asian countries of exciting possibilities.
The brewery in Tashkent, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, where work started in 2006, will have an initial while its westerly coastline touches the capacity of one million hectolitres and room for Caspian Sea.
The country is rich in energy expansion.
The stainless steel and construction and minerals and is one of the largest grainmaterials for the brewery are being shipped producing nations of the world.
It has enjoyed in from China, while S&N expertise is involved huge growth in GDP since becoming an with the set-up, brewing preparations and independent republic from the former technical testing.
BBH will have a 75% holding Soviet Union in 1991.
And increasing in the joint venture.
With per capita consumption prosperity has brought more disposable only about 10 litres per head, this fledgling beer income and increased leisure time.
Rapid growth in beer volumes in One of BBHs successes has been arriving Kazakhstan up 35% in 2006 has given first in new markets and building a demand for S&N huge confidence in this geographically beer by developing ties with local partners and daunting region where Asia meets Europe.
From this springboard, The Company has taken the bold step of premium brands and imported beers can then investing in the neighbouring country of be introduced as the consumer becomes more Uzbekistan, an emerging market for beer.
discerning and the economy more benign.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 20 Pride of St Petersburg Building the Baltika Brand Russian for beer The successful completion of Baltikas complex merger in 2006 gives Russias iconic beer brand a springboard for increased growth in a booming market.
altika is now firmly established as the No.
1 drinks brand in Russia and the second B largest beer brand in Europe.
It is another sustainable success story for S&N.
Across this vast nation, Baltika is now an iconic symbol of national pride and prestige with its assurances of high quality, consistency and superb taste.
From a low base 17 years ago, Russia is now the fifth largest beer market in the world, just behind Germany and Brazil, and Baltika has been the driver.
Yet this market still has imports, a figure of 6% was anticipated by plenty of headroom for growth.
Over the medium-term, BBH forecasts Baltikas parent company, Baltic Beverages a 3% to 5% annual increase per year in Russia.
Holding BBH, is a 50-50 joint venture between Russias total beer consumption is 96 million S&N and Carlsberg.
Baltika is a proudly Russian hectolitres, with Baltika and its portfolio of business but able to draw on S&Ns international brands achieving a 36.4% market share over expertise in marketing and brand development.
the year, although in the last quarter that was Baltikas range of 30 beers from non-alcohol up to 36.9%.
There were good reasons for the through to light pilsner-style and draft stout difference.
The first quarter was unusually cold are making a significant contribution to shareholder and it was difficult to transport beer.
Major expansion in brewing capacity this time, merger reorganisation at Baltika had is still required to meet consumer demand for a short-term impact on sales volumes, but the Baltikas portfolio of products.
Baltikas chief gains in quarter three and four outstripped this.
brewery in St Petersburg is a colossal, modern The effect of newly integrated sales and complex and the largest of its type in Europe, distribution and the balanced portfolio approach but Baltika has 11 breweries in 11 timezones, of national brands and regional champions has in this expansive market place.
Another tangible benefit of the For S&N, a most significant date was merger has been the cross-brewing of brands, 28 December 2006, when a string of complex which are transferred to suit local markets.
agreements, approved by shareholders and To meet increasing demand, a two million involving BBHs original partners, finally allowed hectolitre brewery is being built in Novosibirsk, four separate businesses to merge into a single in Siberia, and due to start operating in 2008. entity.
This has enabled Baltika to surge ahead Quality and consistency are the bedrock of again in the market place, bringing Pikra, the Baltikas success.
Until Baltika was launched in Krasnoyarsk, Vena in Chelyabinsk and as a quality Russian product, the market was St Petersburg, and Yarpivo, in Yaroslavl and dominated by state-owned brands with spurious Voronezh, into the fold.
This has doubled the provenance.
Baltika has created the modern number of breweries and boosted the Baltika global beer brand in Russia, using quality and share price.
Shareholders groups, asked to taste and the latest marketing and promotions vote on a merger in March 2006, were offered including regional beer and music festivals in a prospectus price of $32.60 per share.
The the summer attracting hundreds of thousands flotation brought an instant bonus and the to excite a new generation of beer drinkers.
share price has risen to over $44.
It is now exported to nearly 40 countries.
This a real return on investment.
Baltika This tight-knit working relationship with grew by 11% in 2006, ahead of the market and BBH has also allowed S&N to introduce its own a leader in all segments.
While 3% of this can premium imported brands into Russia, with be accounted for by a change in Russias spirit Fosters and Kronenbourg 1664 making early regulations, which temporarily prevented inroads among well-heeled Russian consumers.
com 11 BREWERIES ACROSS 11 TIMEZONES 10,5 MHL 3,0 MHL ST PETERSBURG 6,0 MHL YAROSLAVL TULA 6 MHL RUSSIA 1 MHL 1,5 MHL CHELYABINSK VORONEZH SAMARA KHABAROVSK 4,5 MHL KRASNOYARSK 1,5 MHL 2,5 MHL 4,5 MHL 2 MHL ROSTOV-ON-DON NOVOSIBIRSK ASIA 500 km 500 miles Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 21 SCN-006 REVIEW.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 22 Asia Partners King in India ts impossible not to be excited by India.
Its energy and pace of change make it a fantastic Iplace to be doing business, says John Hunt, MD of S&N Asian operations: Its a youthful, can-do culture with an economy thats just exploding.
Young people are moving into the cities, becoming fashion and brand conscious, wanting to go out and have fun.
The cities are really buzzing, and Kingfisher is in tune with that.
Kingfisher is the principal brand of our UBL joint venture, which has about 50% of the fastgrowing Indian beer market.
In this country of a billion people, where the population grows at 16% a year, were targeting an urban population of 320m and 180m middle-class households.
And were making terrific progress.
Combined with excellent cost control, this drove dramatic growth in profitability.
Our view of Indias potential has been resoundingly confirmed.
While China has taken much of the limelight in recent years, India is pushing ahead with no less energy.
Consumer confidence, spending and brand awareness are growing rapidly as urbanisation advances.
Liberalisation of the economy has been gathering momentum for some 15 years.
So far, the beer market remains heavily regulated.
For example, there are only 55,000 outlets for alcoholic drinks in the entire country thats fewer than the UKs 58,000 pubs.
And in the great majority of states, government is involved in alcohol distribution, retailing or both.
But this is beginning to change.
In 2006 the government of Punjab state population over 24m in the 2001 census liberalised the distribution and retailing of beer.
Sales shot up more than six-fold.
Progress is still going step by step, but the trend is to more liberalisation, says John Hunt.
And Punjab shows dramatically what the potential is.
Meanwhile, our portfolio of leading brands is going from strength to strength.
Kingfisher Strong, launched under five years ago, grew sales by 35% last year, overtaking Kingfisher Mild to become Indias best-selling beer.
Mild, growing in double digits, had to settle for the No.
Sandpiper and Zingaro also continued to grow sales vigorously.
This year the growth story continues.
Were commissioning new breweries to open-up access to two more states: Rajasthan population 56.5m in 2001 and Orissa population 36.8m in 2001.
Were also extending several of our existing 14 plants.
Indias economy may be growing fast, but we intend to grow even faster.
com LEFT: Indian Summer England cricketers Andrew Flintoff and Michael Vaughan still find time for a refreshing Kingfisher.
Partners on the Yangtze Chongqing challenges China usiness is booming for Chinas fifth largest This is increasingly important as it extends BELOW: Winners enclosure: UBL chairman Vijay Mallya and S&N UK Managing Director John brewer, Chongqing Brewery Company, its territory eastwards to the provinces around Dunsmore at the John Smiths Grand National.
It already has an 80% market share sales volumes were up over 20%.
Profitability in Chongqing metropolis the worlds fastestrose even faster as the Company contained growing metropolitan area, with a population costs and benefited from economies of scale.
This ebullient region in Chinas Clearly, local management must take most of south-west is fuelling the companys growth the credit, but S&N did cause something of a stir and provides an excellent base for expansion.
by sending a piper to Chongqings beer festival The Company has been building and acquiring and delighted the populace by putting our entire new breweries, and has been introducing its major team in kilts.
brand Shancheng into the portfolios of its More importantly, since investing in the local breweries.
business in 2004 weve contributed substantially Our partnership with the company began over to its operational improvement drive and brought a decade ago, when it began brewing McEwans a growing number of its staff to the UK for 1856 under licence.
Today weve forged strong training.
Weve also started to work with local relationships with the management team and management to enhance the marketing of its the municipal government, which is a major portfolio of major and regional brands.
And we could be looking for some extra pipers and kilts in 2007 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 23 SCN-006 REVIEW.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 24 Board of Directors Sir Brian Stewart 61 Tony Froggatt 58 Ian McHoul 47 John Nicolson 53 Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chairman, Greater Europe USA Appointed to the Board in 1988.
Appointed Chief Executive in May Joined the Board in 2001.
Qualified Appointed to the Board in 2000 as Currently Chairman of Standard 2003.
Currently Vice President of the as a Chartered Accountant with Chairman, International Beer.
Took Life Assurance Company and Vice Brewers of Europe.
Joined S&N in 1998 as up his current position in June 2004, President of the British Beer and Pub was President Europe, Middle East the Finance Director for Scottish with responsibility for our businesses Association.
Qualified as a Chartered and Africa for Seagram Spirits & Courage.
Appointed to his current in Belgium, Portugal, Finland and Accountant.
Is also a Non-Executive post in 2001.
Is also a NonGreece as well as our venture working in a variety of finance and Director of Brambles Industries plc.
Executive Director of Premier markets, the USA and BBH.
Joined management positions, becoming Foods plc.
Courage in 1993 as Managing Finance Director in 1988 and Chief Started his career with Gillette Director, Off Trade.
Company and held a wide range of Previously held a number of acquisition of Courage in 1995, sales, marketing and management finance and strategy posts in the he became Marketing Director Brings a wealth of boardroom and positions in many countries with beer industry, first with Fosters of Scottish Courage, then Group brewing industry experience, both major consumer goods companies Brewing Group and its subsidiary, Corporate Development Director.
in the UK and internationally.
Courage, and then with Inntrepreneur Pub Company.
Prior to that he held posts in sales and marketing at ICI and Unilever.
Philip Bowman 54 Erik Hartwall 65 Dr Neville Bain 66 Sir Angus Grossart 69 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Joined the Board in January 2006.
Joined the Group Board in May Joined the Board in 1997.
Currently Joined the Board in May 1998.
Currently a member of the Audit 2002 following the Hartwall merger.
Chairman of the Institute of Currently Chairman of Noble Committee, Chief Executive of Worked with Hartwall since 1971, Directors.
Qualified as a Chartered Grossart Limited, the Scottish Scottish Power plc and Senior both in Finland and internationally, Accountant in New Zealand.
merchant bank, Chairman of Independent Director of Burberry rising to become Managing Director Formerly Chief Executive of Coates National Museums of Scotland and Group plc.
Previously Chief Executive and now Chairman.
Various roles at Cadbury Director of Trinity Mirror plc.
He is a of Allied Domecq plc for seven years, Schweppes in New Zealand, Chartered Accountant and practised Director of Bass plc now Mitchells His extensive experience in the Australia, South Africa and the UK at the Scottish Bar.
Former roles and Butler plc and Intercontinental brewing and beverage industry, before becoming Group Deputy include Vice Chairman of Royal Bank Hotel Group plc for five years, both in Finland and internationally, Chief Executive.
Held other positions of Scotland, Chairman of National working as Chief Financial Officer and is a major asset to the Board.
as a Finance Director and in sales Galleries of Scotland and Deputy then Chief Executive of Bass Taverns.
Chairman of the National Heritage Also held roles as a Director of British Memorial Fund.
Sky Broadcasting Group plc, Chairman Dr Bains wide financial and business of Liberty plc and Chairman of Coral background enables him to make an Sir Angus brings extensive strategic Eurobet plc.
important contribution to the Board, and financial experience to the particularly in his role as Chairman Board, having acted as a strategic He brings a wealth of international of the Audit Committee.
and financial advisor to, and served finance and business experience as a member of, the boards of many with an intimate knowledge public and private companies and of the alcoholic beverages organisations.
com Committee Members Nominations Committee Sir Brian Stewart Chairman, Sir Angus Grossart, Erik Hartwall, Ian McAllister, Sir Ian Robinson Remuneration Committee Ian McAllister Chairman, Dr Neville Bain, Sir Angus Grossart Audit Committee Dr Neville Bain Chairman, Ian McAllister, Sir Ian Robinson, Philip Bowman, Brian Wallace Treasury Committee John Dunsmore 48 Peter Kennerley 50 Ian McAllister 63 Sir Angus Grossart Chairman, Chairman and Managing Director, Company Secretary Non-Executive Director Ian McHoul, Dr Neville Bain, S&N UK and General Counsel Appointed to the Board in 1996.
Alan Dick, John Jackson Appointed to the Board in 2002.
Joined the Group as Company Senior Non-Executive Director and Currently a Non-Executive Director Secretary in May 1999.
Two years Chairman of the Remuneration of United Breweries of India, our as Secretary to the Takeover Panel.
Committee, Chairman of Network Indian joint venture, Chairman of Qualified as a solicitor with the Rail and member of the Carbon the British Beer & Pub Association, London law firm Simmons & Trust.
Held previous positions a Board member of the UK Simmons.
Worked as a partner as Deputy Chairman of the Drinkaware Trust and a trustee advising international businesses Qualifications and Curriculum of the Portman Group and of the in corporate finance, mergers Authority and membership of the Scottish Community Foundation.
Advisory Committee on Business He began his career at S&N as and the Environment.
Worked for a graduate trainee in sales and Peter brings great legal experience the Ford Motor Company, holding marketing, re-joining in 1996 as and knowledge in the area of various positions in Germany, Director of Corporate Development, international business, mergers Britain and the USA, finally as becoming Head of UK, On Trade and acquisitions to the Board.
Chairman and Managing Director in 1997, moving to his current of Ford Britain.
He brings wide international Worked for 13 years in the City industrial experience to the Board, as a drinks analyst, subsequently adding a further social perspective rising to Head of UK Equities at through his current and past Natwest Securities.
Henrik Therman 69 Sir Ian Robinson 64 Brian Wallace 52 Bridget Macaskill 58 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Joined the Group Board in May Joined the Board in September Joined the Board in December 2006.
Proposed to join the Board in 2002 following the Hartwall merger.
Currently Chairman of Currently a member of the Audit April 2007.
Currently also a NonThe driving force behind the Ladbrokes plc, formerly Hilton Committee, Senior Independent Executive Director of Prudential plc, inception and development of BBH, Group, Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director at Hays plc.
and of the Federal National leading the business successfully Compass Group plc, Director of Previous roles include Group Mortgage Association Fannie Mae, between 1993 and 2004 as Chief Siemens Holdings plc and a member Finance Director and Deputy Group she was recently a Non-Executive Executive, Deputy Chairman and of the Takeover Panel.
Qualified as a Chief Executive of Hilton Group plc, Director of Sainsbury plc.
With a degree in Chemical Engineer.
30-year career Group Finance Director of Geest plc chemical engineering he has held in the global engineering and and Group Financial Controller of Previous roles include Chairman various managerial posts within the construction industry, including APV plc.
and Chief Executive officer of Hartwall Group since 1964. posts as Chief Executive of John OppenheimerFunds Inc, a major Brown and Chairman of Davy Brian has a breadth of experience New York based investment Henrik brings to the Board major Group, both parts of Trafalgar in both commercial and financial management company.
Before that, insight and knowledge of the House Group.
Also Chief Executive terms along with excellent her mainstream career was in FMCG businesses and markets of Eastern of Scottish Power plc for six years knowledge of the hospitality marketing and management at Europe and Russia, now a major and held a number of non-executive sector.
He brings a wealth of Unigate.
She is also on the advisory part of our Group.
and advisory appointments international and financial board of the University of Edinburgh.
Bridget brings to the Board He brings to the Board a deep broad international corporate knowledge of building and and investment management developing international businesses.
knowledge with additional experience of retail and consumer marketing in Britain.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 26 GROUP FINANCIAL SUMMARY However we estimate that the loss of wholesaling Operating Revenues for the Group have increased by 7% to 4,155m, revenues in France, which was disrupted by the while profit before tax and EPS grew 13.9% and 12.7% reorganisation of our on-trade sales operations, has Review respectively on a comparable basis.
The Groups owned impacted operating profits by around 10m year-onGroup brands are up 5.8% in volumes and 8.9% in net sales.
Rising input costs reduced profits by 2m.
We have announced a new phase of cost savings which Summary is expected to achieve 50m by the end of 2009.
BALTIC BEVERAGES HOLDING BBH All references to operating profit, profit before Group beer volume growth of 11% tax and earnings per share figures are stated before Net sales up 23.1% exceptional items.
Revenue and profit figures include the Margin growth to 22.1% S&N share of the results of joint ventures and associates.
Continued market share momentum in Russia On an unadjusted basis profit before tax for the Legal integration in Russia now complete 12 months to December was 392m and EPS was 31.9p.
Dividend payout of 150m increase of 30% and 86m loan repayment to shareholders UK Own branded beer and cider volumes and BBH enjoyed outstanding results in 2006 with net net sales up by 3.8% and 4.5% respectively sales growth of 23%, helping to deliver operating profit 1 Market share beer and cider increase of 0.9% growth of 43%.
Operating margin increased by around Top four brand volumes up 6.8% and net sales 300bps to 22.1% driven predominantly by strong top 5.8% up 6.9% led by innovation and A&P line performance and the benefits from a newly NPD in premium cider market results in integrated operation in Russia 200bps.
Exceptional Volume increase of branded branded cider net sales growth of 15.3% demand in the market across the summer giving rise beer and cider Kuehne Nagel K N distribution joint to operational leverage, contributed a one-off margin venture achieves industry leading service levels benefit of around 80bps.
Price increases in energy and raw materials led to an 80bps decline in margin.
S&N UK is now in the third consecutive year of Pricing improved in all markets, growing by 7.7% share growth in beer having established a beer market per litre in local currency, as we see a continued trend 2 share of 26.5%, up from 25.3% in 2005 despite towards premiumisation in Russia in particular.
having rationalised our brand portfolio during 2005.
In Russia, the largest part of BBH, the beer market Adjusting for this the branded beer and cider business grew by 10% in 2006 benefiting both from an 8.9% showed strong growth with 3.8% volume increase approximate 3% uplift driven by changes in legislation Net sales increase of own brand together with improved price mix delivering net sales for the wine and spirits categories as well as beer and cider growth of 4.5%.
unseasonably favourable weather in the fourth quarter.
Through continued refocus of A&P and investment Marketing a leading brand portfolio through a newly in innovation our top four brands, Fosters, Kronenbourg integrated sales and distribution platform in Russia, BBHs 1664, John Smiths and Strongbow together continue positive market share trend continued into the fourth to grow well ahead of the market with volumes up 6.8% quarter with share well ahead of the corresponding and net sales up 6.9%.
Fosters, Kronenbourg and quarter last year.
In the year, volumes grew ahead of the John Smiths continue to gain share in their respective market at 11%, which puts BBHs cumulative market market segments.
share in Russia at 36.4% for 2006, just ahead of last year.
12.7% S&Ns branded cider portfolio has grown volumes by 8.5% and sales by 15.3%.
There has been remarkable C06 RESULTS Earnings per share increase Comparable Unadjusted growth in the cider over-ice category and we are FY06FY05 FY05 pleased with the initial performance of our portfolio of brands in this sector: Strongbow Sirrus, Bulmers Revenue 4,155m 3,883m 7.0% 3,926m Original and Jacques.
Operating profit 535m 486m 10.1% 479m The impact of the smoking ban in Scotland has Profit before tax 452m 397m 13.9% 392m been small for the UK business.
The lessons from Ireland and Scotland will be applied in England and Earnings per share 35.6p 31.6p 12.7% 31.9p Wales, as the smoking ban comes into existence in Final dividend 14.44p 14.09p 2.5% 14.09p July 2007.
Overall we believe S&N is well positioned Comparable pro forma results for 2005 have been adjusted for the impact to take on the challenge of this changing environment, of acquisitions and disposals, for the restructuring of the Becks contract in due to the intelligence gathered in Scotland and Ireland the UK and for the exchange rates used for Euros and US dollars in 2006.
Unadjusted pro forma results for the twelve months to 31 December 2005 and the broad and premium focused brand portfolio.
show actual results as they were reported.
INTERNATIONAL UNDERLYING GROWTH IN REVENUE Own branded volumes and net sales up 2.9% Comparable Unadjusted and 4.8% respectively m FY06FY05 FY05 Strong growth from premium brands up 9% UK 1,864 1,747 6.7% 1,771 Overall good share performance from key brands in all markets International 1,567 1,548 1.2% 1,551 Underlying profit growth of 4.4%, adjusting for BBH 724 588 23.1% 604 10m disruption cost in French wholesaling Total 4,155 3,883 7.0% 3,926 Continued double-digit growth in India and China S&Ns International division includes the Groups UNDERLYING GROWTH strong and established market positions in Continental IN OPERATING PROFIT Europe and exports to more than 60 countries, including Comparable Unadjusted the USA, and joint ventures in India and China.
m FY06FY05 FY05 The international business has shown progress UK 206 203 1.5% 194 in priority areas, with overall branded volumes up International 178 180 -1.1% 179 2.9%.
In France, the largest market in the International business, the strategy we have adopted, namely to BBH 160 112 42.9% 115 focus on three brands Kronenbourg Red & White 1 LTIP Profit share 9 9 9 Adjusted for brand contract R&W in the mainstream, and in the premium restructuring.
Total 535 486 10.1% 479 2 segment 1664 and Grimbergen is working.
These In the past our beer market share Adjusted for the impact of corporate activity, and Euro and US dollar exchange three brands represent over 80% of BKs branded beer number stated included private rate fluctuations.
This strong performance has been achieved Share based payments including social security costs and profit share.
market share now stated includes through refocused A&P spend and innovation, for only S&N owned branded volumes example with the roll-out of Super-Chilled for R&W versus the total beer market as and the introduction of 1664 Blanc.
We believe this reported by the BBPA.
together with new initiatives will continue to drive brand growth going forward.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 27 Corporate Responsibility is integral to the way we the business.
It can be found in the Corporate Operating manage and operate our business.
We believe we Responsibility section of our website.
In 2006 there have made great progress over the last few years, was only one complaint in France upheld against Review particularly in 2006.
We have introduced many the advertising of our products, which for us Corporate ground-breaking projects and have more in the demonstrates the level of understanding of our pipeline for 2007. policy among employees.
Responsibility In the last year we have: Made important progress in the areas of JOINT VENTURES environment and supply chain, reducing CO Our three joint ventures are making increasing 2 emissions, water use and waste whilst contributions to our revenue.
As a signatory to the developing innovative sustainable sources UN Global Compact, we have publicly committed to of renewable energy.
manage our joint ventures responsibly and we report Continued to work with governments and on our progress against the criteria in our Corporate non-governmental organisations to promote Responsibility Report.
Operating in developing responsible consumption of our products and markets, in companies where we do not have provide innovative solutions to problem drinking.
overall management control, sets us new challenges.
Worked hard to communicate our visions We work with our local partners and stakeholders and values to all employees and introduced to understand our responsibilities and meet the a Company-wide Best Team Behaviours expectations of those that we work with, as well programme.
We are mindful of other issues, Improved our Business in the Community such as Human Rights and the environment, which BitC ranking to 56th, moving up 27 places will require more active management and monitoring.
We are working to reduce our environmental impact, Worked to ensure that community investment particularly water and energy use.
We recognise the is effective and targeted.
We have moved up to value of fresh water to local communities and the UB 23rd on the Guardians Giving List, passing the business in India now has systems on one site to harvest threshold of giving over 1% of pre-tax profits rain water which is then used to replenish groundwater to charitable and community causes.
We are in the process of installing similar facilities in two more breweries this year.
Our Corporate Responsibility Committee is UB is also working to develop innovative energy comprised of Executive Directors and chaired by the projects.
The installation of two rice husk burners Chief Executive.
The Committee oversees CR strategy four more are scheduled for 07 and a bio-mass boiler and reports to the Companys Executive Management have saved 2,350 tonnes of oil in 2006 a 9% reduction Group and the Board of Directors twice a year.
The in UBs total oil consumption compared to 2005.
Committee works to assess significant risks to the We also recognise the need to have sustainable business arising from social, ethical and environmental supplier relationships and have a contract farming SEE issues and works closely with the Managing initiative in several regions in India, paying small Directors of the national businesses.
farmers fair value for their crops.
At a Group and national level our risk management processes include identification, DEVELOPING A RESPONSIBLE, management and monitoring of SEE risks.
We aim HIGH PERFORMANCE CULTURE to apply best practice in our disclosure of SEE risks Our aim is to unite and inspire people behind the and report annually.
vision of working together, building the brands that Seven key impact areas are identified in our SEE people love to drink.
Here follows a summary of developments During 2006 we launched a new behavioural in 2006 in each area.
framework called Best Team Behaviours.
This aims to link S&Ns values into employees everyday working RESPONSIBLE DRINKING and develop every individual to their maximum.
We believe it is critical for our business, and the In 2006 business leaders attended a workshop on communities in which we operate, that we are Best Team Behaviours.
In 2007 the workshops will always working to tackle irresponsible consumption be extended to all leaders and will be linked into of our products and promote responsible drinking.
our Personal Development Potential PDP process.
We continue to participate and contribute to the We have continued to develop group-wide alcohol debate at regional, national and international processes and resourcing guidelines to enable level along with governments, non-governmental us to recruit and assess talent in a consistent way.
This is We have a clear Equal Opportunities policy that complemented by our own work.
As a brand is communicated to all staff and published on our leader in many of our markets, we believe that website.
We will not tolerate discrimination against we have a responsibility to lead, and support, any employee or external applicant and we seek to responsible drinking initiatives.
make full use of the talents and resources of our We use the power of our brands to run specific entire workforce.
campaigns educating consumers around the dangers We are also continuing to promote our confidential of irresponsible drinking.
For example, in France, whistleblowing process to monitor compliance following a hard-hitting drink-driving campaign, with our Code of Business Conduct.
There were no Brasseries Kronenbourg has updated their responsible complaints to our Whistleblowing Hotline in 2006. drinking policy, Ligne fide conduite alcool.
We consult with our employees in many different In 2006 we were one of the founding members ways including the Employee Engagement Survey and of the Drinkaware Trust, an industry funded body that National and European Works Councils, as well as at works to reduce alcohol misuse and alcohol-related site level using team briefings.
John Dunsmore, Managing Director of S&N UK, Our 2006 Group Employee Engagement Survey has recently been appointed to the newly formed ran across all countries for the first time and we were Board of the Drinkaware Trust.
We support the delighted that brand advocacy scores reached 87%.
Drinkaware website on all advertising and packaging, The Employee Survey is followed by action planning which sits alongside alcohol unit labelling and the sessions to ensure we act on the results.
In the UK where governments responsible drinking message.
the survey has been used for three years, we can see All of our marketing activity must conform to our an improvement year on year across all areas.
The policy is an essential tool in ensuring that all employees and agencies understand the importance of responsible marketing and responsible use of our products.
Since the launch in 2005 we have worked to embed the policy across Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 27 SCN-006 REVIEW.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 28 ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN Operating Beer is a natural product brewed from natural The issue of corporate responsibility affects not only ingredients.
It is therefore essential to our long-term our own behaviour and actions but reaches into our Review survival that we have a sustainable environment supply chain.
We are working to support our suppliers Corporate and agricultural sector.
Over the last few years we to ensure their business is sustainable and meets high have invested 100m in projects to reduce energy, ethical and socially responsible standards.
Our policy, Responsibility waste and water usage and are developing exciting and practice, is to pay suppliers in accordance with and innovative plans for further investment in the terms and conditions agreed in advance.
At the year-end the amount owed to trade Water and energy usage in particular are creditors by the Company was equivalent to 16 days fundamental to our business.
Firstly, on energy use, we have been working We have an audit process for assessing new and -13% with the UK Carbon Trust to make sure we are better existing suppliers.
Suppliers are assessed against a equipped to deal with rising energy prices and our range of weighted criteria focusing on quality and Reduction in energy environmental obligations.
We have in place a rigorous environmental issues.
We are continuing to refine consumption by energy efficiency programme to reduce both our these audits in line with our commitments as a production volume energy costs and CO2 emissions.
We are developing signatory of the UN Global Compact.
ground-breaking plans for biomass plants in the UK We have implemented an Ethical Procurement which could provide a minimum 40% reduction in gas Policy, highlighting our vision of ethics in our business.
Total energy consumption demand and a reduction of some 4,000 truck journeys We have requested our suppliers agree to our Ethical by production kWh hl per annum.
We are installing micro wind turbines at Supplier Charter and complete a self assessment the Bulmers orchards to provide direct power to the process to enable us to evaluate their suitability.
Agriculture is of course a key part of our supply 2004 40.9 We have also invested in new effluent treatment chain and S&N continues to work hard to support 37.6 2005 plants in the UK.
This reduces the level of organic this sector.
In addition to the 560,000 trees already pollution from our breweries.
It also produces useable managed by Bulmers, we will be investing 1.8m in 32.7 2006 biogas which in turn generates carbon neutral heat new orchards during 2008 09 which will lead to the and electricity for the manufacturing sites.
On top of this, we As a result of these types of initiatives, we have have committed to long-term contracts with suppliers: massively cut our carbon footprint for every pint of Bulmers has an additional 1.3 million trees under beer we produce.
Since 2000, we have reduced our 10-20 year contracts with growers, giving farmers -10.5% total energy consumption per hectolitre of production confidence and a guaranteed return.
Reduction in CO2 emissions by 27.7%: achieving a 13% reduction in 2006 Wherever possible, we make sure that all the malt by production volume compared to 2005.
In 2006 our total CO emissions utilised in the UK is derived from UK grown barley.
2 were 30,000 tonnes less than they were in 2005, an improvement of 8.8%.
Total CO emissions by COMMUNITY 2 production volume were down a further 10.5%.
Following a review of our community activities we have Secondly, on water use, we have seen a dramatic begun to implement our new group-wide community Total CO emissions by beer 2 improvement in consumption across the Group.
Our priority is to production volume kgCO hl 2 Since 2000 improvements in water efficiency have ensure that our community investment is effective 10.4 2003 saved over 10 million cubic metres of water.
In 2006, and targeted to support our business objectives and we used 5.1% less water compared to 2005, despite deliver real benefits for the Company, the communities 10.2 2004 a 2% increase in production.
in which we operate and our employees.
2005 9.5 We have worked to reduce the amount of waste In 2006 we introduced the Helping Hands 2006 8.5 we produce and to increase the amount of waste we initiative to our UK employees.
We now recycle over 94% of the waste that match funding when employees raise sponsorship arises on our brewery sites and are investigating ways money for charities, links some team training into to eliminate all waste going to land fill over the next activities that benefit the local community and few years.
provides regional funds for local communities.
Our strategy for reducing the amount of packaging We continue to support and provide funding to -5.1% we use have shown real success, for example: the Bulmers and Kronenbourg Foundations.
2006 saw Reduction in water use Our bottles now contain up to 80% recycled the 10th anniversary for the Brasseries Kronenbourg by production volume content.
Weve cut our glass use by 6%, saving Foundation in France.
The Foundation works with more than 20,000 tonnes of glass per year and socially excluded people to train them and help them reduced the energy used to produce them by back into a working life.
Over the last 10 years, projects up to 50% per bottle.
have helped 1,000 people back into work.
Water consumption In the UK, new packaging lines run cans We also have strong links with community by production volume hl hl requiring less metal content.
This has saved organisations that support those who have been approximately 1,230 tonnes of aluminium affected by the misuse of alcoholic products.
All our 4.7 2003 or about 6% compared to that used in 2005. international graduates undertake a project for Turning 2004 4.8 In France, cardboard has been reduced by 9% Point, the UKs leading social care organisation, as part saving 40 tonnes per year and by increasing the of their management development programme, 2005 4.5 number of bottles per pallet we have reduced benefiting both our organisations.
4.2 2006 the number of truck kilometres by 150,000km per year.
94% Waste recycled on production sites Total waste recycled 2003 49 67 2004 93 2005 2006 94 28 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 SCN-006 REVIEW.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 29 We continue to benchmark our activities against Operating best practice.
In 2006, S&N climbed up the Guardian newspapers Giving List to 23rd, up from 30th in 2005. Review We also passed the benchmark of giving more than Corporate 1% of pre-tax profit to corporate responsibility projects, up from 0.88% last year.
Weve worked hard Responsibility to improve our data collection and reporting on this issue across the Group and will continue to improve continued our processes next year.
We have also shown steady improvement in Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index, scoring 88.5% in 2005s report, up from 62% in 2002.
Out of 135 companies that completed the survey, we were placed 56th in 2005, up from 82nd in 2003.
Our total community contribution in 2006 was 3.9m.
Community engagement is an integral part of the way we manage the business, particularly when we are planning significant changes.
During 2006, we announced that we were selling our Champigneulles Brewery in France.
We consulted with the local community about the changes and ensured that a job solution was offered to every employee.
LOBBYING AND PUBLIC POLICY DEVELOPMENT We play an active part in a variety of trade bodies and social policy organisations across the countries and regions where we operate.
We believe there are clear benefits from ensuring that the Company is represented in these organisations and that the industry can speak with a collective voice.
In the past we have tended to focus on industry representation at national level.
Issues affecting our industry are increasingly international and we now work with industry bodies at both national and international level to develop and promote sensible alcohol harm reduction strategies, and to ensure that our views and those of the industry as a whole are represented in public debate at all appropriate levels.
The Group made no political contributions during the year or in the previous financial period.
For more information on corporate responsibility issues, policies and performance, or to download our full corporate responsibility report, please visit the website at www.
com Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 29 SCN-006 REVIEW.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 30 COMPLIANCE BASE SALARY Summary This report has been prepared to comply with the Individual base salaries of Executive Directors and Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by Members of the EMG are reviewed annually by the Directors the Financial Reporting Council and with Schedule 7A Committee, taking into account a number of factors, Remuneration of the Companies Act 1985.
It has been approved by including individual performance, responsibility changes, the Remuneration Committee and the Board and Company performance, reviews elsewhere within the Report shareholders will be invited to approve it at the Group and the competitive position of other elements Companys Annual General Meeting.
Base salary is also compared to midCertain parts of this report are required to be market salaries for comparable roles, using the FTSE audited.
Where disclosures are subject to audit, 100 as a comparator group, adjusted to remove financial they have been marked as such.
services businesses, as compiled by the Committees independent external advisers.
REMUNERATION POLICY The Companys policy in setting remuneration for SHORT-TERM INCENTIVES BONUS Executive Directors and other Senior Executives for Executive Directors were eligible for an annual 2007 and subsequent years is designed to ensure bonus of up to 100% of base salary for the year that the total package: to 31 December 2006.
The level of bonus awarded will depend upon the extent to which performance Is competitive with companies in the same targets set by the Committee have been met.
sector which are of similar size and complexity For the year to December 2006, these targets so that it will attract, retain and motivate were structured so that for Executive Directors Executives with the skills required to maximise with Group responsibilities, the targets were based return for shareholders: as to 65% on Group economic profit, as to 15% Group Facilitates the movement of Executives sales growth and as to 20% on personal performance between different divisions and countries against measurable key objectives.
For Executive within the Group: Directors who are divisional chairmen, the targets Supports the achievement of the Groups were based as to 40% on Group economic profit, operational and strategic objectives: and as to 25% on divisional economic profit, as to 15% Is balanced and does not lead to Group sales growth and as to 20% on personal excessive awards.
performance against measurable key objectives.
At Group level, the achieved economic profit Against this background remuneration is set was 68% of maximum for 2006 which on average for Executive Directors and other Senior Executives for Executive Directors amounted to 36% of salary.
to achieve the Companys objectives and reflects The Committee believes that economic profit wider market conditions.
Whilst base salary policy is essentially measuring the profit for the year against relatively consistent throughout the Group, incentives the cost of capital is the most appropriate criterion are structured around executive levels and so no for annual bonuses since it clearly measures shortdirect link is made with the remuneration levels term value creation for shareholders.
The key personal of other employees.
objectives set are those which drive Group economic As part of this policy, the Committee believes profit and are within the control of each Director.
that it is important that a significant part of the By using these we can focus, in particular upon one remuneration package should be clearly linked to or more business critical areas.
performance measured at Group, divisional and personal level in the form of both shortand LONG-TERM INCENTIVES long-term incentives.
DEFERRED BONUS SCHEME The chart below shows the broad projected Under the Deferred Bonus Scheme, an Executive relative values of base salary, benefits, short-term Director was previously able to invest up to half incentives STIs and long-term incentives LTIs.
The of any annual bonus in the Companys shares in the first case shows the expected targeted performance Deferred Bonus Scheme and, provided he remained values and the second shows the case if the maximum with the Group for a further three years, additional incentive rewards are earned.
matched shares might be awarded to him.
The number The Committee also encourages Executive of matched shares would depend on the Groups Directors to build an appropriate shareholding in the performance over the three-year period measured Company through the operation of the Companys against two separate criteria total shareholder share schemes.
return TSR relative to a comparator group and earnings per share EPS growth relative to the INCENTIVES AND PERFORMANCE CRITERIA RPI as follows: The Committee uses three measures of Company Companys TSR Number of matched shares or business performance, which are as follows: ranking as against awarded as % of shares comparator group purchased by Director economic profit: operating profit excluding Between 76-100 75% exceptional items, net of tax, less a charge for PROJECTED RELATIVE VALUES Between 51-75 50% the use of capital OF BASE SALARY, BENEFITS, Between 26-50 25% SHORTTERM INCENTIVES Between 0-25 0% total shareholder return TSR : growth in value AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES of a share over the relevant period, taking into account reinvested dividends Growth in EPS in Number of matched shares excess of RPI over awarded as % of shares Expected value three-year period purchased by Director earnings per share EPS : earnings attributable to Benefits LTIs ordinary shareholders excluding exceptional items 15% 75% 40% 15% 20% 25% divided by the weighted average number of ordinary 9% 50% Base STIs shares in issue on a diluted basis 3% 25% 3% 0% An explanation of why particular performance measures were adopted for particular incentives is described below.
Maximum value Benefits LTIs 22.5% 10% 22.5% 45% Base STIs 30 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 SCN-006 REVIEW.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 31 LONG-TERM INCENTIVES NOTES: Summary DEFERRED BONUS SCHEME CONTINUED 1 The exercise price for aggregated options held at TSR is calculated by the Company using publicly 31 December 2004 is the weighted average price.
Each companys TSR is then 2 Options granted under the 1994 Scheme Remuneration ranked.
The comparator companies for measuring before August 1999 may only be exercised if relative TSR for the three-year period ended the Companys growth in earnings per share was Report 31 December 2006 were chosen to reflect the equal to or greater than the increase in the RPI type of business, size and geographic spread plus 6% over any three consecutive financial continued of the Company and comprised the following: years of the Company prior to exercise.
3 Options granted after August 1999 may only 1 Anheuser-Busch be exercised if the Companys growth in earnings 2 Carlsberg per share is equal to or greater than the increase 3 Diageo in the RPI plus 9% over three consecutive 4 Fosters financial years of the Company within the five 5 Greene King financial years beginning with the year during 6 Heineken which the grant is made.
7 InBev 4 Options granted after August 2002 are subject 8 SABMiller to the following performance condition: all of the 9 Marstons options may be exercised if, over the three years 10 Coors following the grant, growth in earnings per share 11 Pernod-Ricard is equal to or greater than the increase in the RPI 12 PepsiCo plus 15%.
If growth in earnings per share is 13 Coca-Cola greater than RPI plus 9% then one third of the 14 Cadbury Schweppes options may be exercised with a linear scale 15 Danone in between.
Subsequent re-tests will be made 16 Nestl over four and five years if 100% of the options have not already vested but the target ranges The comparator group was reviewed as appropriate for EPS growth will be 12% to 20% and 15% to ensure it continues to represent an appropriate range to 25% respectively.
The Company has discretion 5 EPS has been chosen because it encourages to adjust EPS targets in order to mitigate the effect of sustained profitable growth and can be clearly structural changes in the Group.
These two performance criteria were selected as 6 Options held under the Savings Related Share they provide a balance of measurement of Company Option Scheme which are not subject to performance in both absolute and comparative terms.
Following approval of the Performance Share Plan 7 There were no variations made during the year by shareholders at the 2004 AGM, the Deferred Bonus in the terms or conditions of a share option Scheme was closed for further investment.
The final or in the performance criteria subject to which maturity under this plan took place in August 2006. share options were granted.
8 The market price of the Companys shares on SHARE SCHEMES 31 December 2006 was 5.595 per share and The Company previously operated an Executive Share the range during the year was 4.8025 to 5.705.
Option Scheme and a Savings Related Share Option Scheme, and now operates a Performance Share Plan SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN and a Share Incentive Plan.
All eligible employees can participate in the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
Under the Plan, shares may be 1994 EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION SCHEME appropriated to participants up to a current maximum Options were granted at the market price at the initial market value in any tax year of 3,000.
These date of grant, normally exercisable between three shares are held by the Trustees of the Plan and can and ten years after the date of grant.
The maximum be transferred tax free to participants after a period value of shares over which options were granted of five years.
There is also a savings and matching to any individual in any year was three times gross element to the Plan: participants can contribute up annual salary, but these options can only be exercised to 1,500 per annum to buy shares and will receive if certain performance conditions are met.
Details a further two free shares from the Company for every of these performance conditions, including an three shares they bought.
explanation of why they were chosen and their methods of assessment are set out in the notes PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN which follow.
The 1994 Scheme expired in 2004 Under the Plan, selected employees receive and the last grant of options to Executive Directors conditional rights to acquire shares in the Company under the Scheme was made on 9 December 2003. at the end of a retention period, subject to a demanding performance target being met.
Awards SAVINGS RELATED SHARE OPTION SCHEME are made twice a year.
The maximum value of awards Under the Scheme participants entered into a savings which can be made under the Plan in any financial contract for a period of three or five years, and options year is twice the employees total annual remuneration were granted, exercisable using the amount saved for that year, and actual levels of awards will be based under the contract at the time it terminated.
Options upon individual performance and seniority.
under the Scheme were granted at a discount of up to For awards under the Plan, the performance target 20% of the market price at the time of grant and are is based upon the Companys total shareholder return, PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN not subject to performance conditions.
The maximum relative to the total return index of FTSE 100 companies, OUTPERFORMANCE OF FTSE 100 limit on savings was 250 per month.
The Scheme measured over a three-year period.
If the Companys TOTAL RETURN INDEX expired in March 2006 following the final invitation TSR exceeds the index by 1%, only 2% of an award to participate in the Scheme.
For 100% of an award to vest, the Companys 100% TSR must exceed that of the index by 20%.
For relative performance between 1% and 20%, awards will vest on a curved scale so that a much greater percentage of an award will vest with improved performance of the Company relative to the index, as shown by the graph below.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 32 Following a benchmarking exercise against FTSE 100 are fully applied to any compensation that may be Summary market practice, and with advice from Towers Perrin, payable.
There are no provisions for pre-determined the Remuneration Committee has agreed three compensation in service contracts.
Directors changes to the operation of the Plan from February Each of the Executive Directors who served during Remuneration 2007 for new awards.
First awards will be made the year has, or had, a service contract providing only once a year rather than twice, linked to the for one years notice to be given by the Company Report announcement of the Companys annual results.
or by the Director, dated as shown: J M Dunsmore Secondly, awards will only be made when S&Ns 30 September 2002, A G Froggatt 12 May 2003, Economic Profit improves on the previous years result.
I P McHoul 13 July 2001, J R Nicolson Thirdly, vesting will occur if Company performance 30 November 2000. is median or better measured against the FTSE 100, Sir Brian Stewart has a letter of appointment over a three-year period.
For median Company dated 28 August 2003.
His appointment is terminable performance, 25% of an award will vest.
For 100% of by one years notice by either party, but in any event an award to vest, the Companys TSR must be upper expires at the conclusion of the first Annual General quartile or above.
For relative performance between Meeting after his 65th birthday.
median and upper quartile, awards will vest along Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an a straight line.
There will be no re-testing of the initial term of three years, renewable for a further performance target.
Total shareholder return was term of three years.
In particular cases, the term may chosen as the appropriate measure of performance, be further extended for up to three years.
Each of the after discussion with the Companys major Non-Executive Directors who served during the year shareholders and representative bodies as being has a letter of appointment, which does not provide the most appropriate measure of overall value for any notice period, dated as shown along with growth for shareholders.
the period until the expiry of their current term: Dr N C Bain 7 June 2004 2 months, Philip Bowman SERVICE CONTRACTS 10 January 2006 1 year 11 months Sir Angus It is the Companys policy to offer all Executive Grossart 7 June 2004 3 months, E J V Hartwall Directors rolling service contracts.
Notice periods 8 July 2005 1 year 3 months, I G McAllister contained in the service contracts of all continuing 19 October 2005 1 year 7 months, Sir Ian Robinson and future Executive Directors are set at one year.
30 September 2004 7 months, H V L Therman In the case of the recruitment of an Executive Director 8 July 2005 1 year 3 months, B Wallace 2 years from outside the Group, the Board may, in exceptional 10 months.
circumstances, offer an initial contract period of two years after which the notice period would revert to PERFORMANCE GRAPH the standard one years notice.
Where an appointment The graph opposite shows the total shareholder return to the Board is made from within the Group and the with dividends reinvested for each of the last five Director concerned has an existing service contract financial periods beginning on 2 May 2002 and ending with a notice period of greater than one year, the notice on 31 December 2006 of a holding of the Companys period will be reduced to one year, but expiring not shares against the corresponding total return in a earlier than the end of the notice period which applied hypothetical holding of shares by reference to which to the Director at the time of his appointment.
the FTSE 100 Index is calculated.
In the event of the termination of any service The FTSE 100 Index was selected as it represents contract or appointment, it is the Boards policy a broad equity market index in which the Company to ensure that legally appropriate mitigation factors is a constituent member.
In the case of Mr Froggatt, this 75 includes a pension allowance.
In the case of both Mr Dunsmore and Mr McHoul, this includes an allowance 50 in lieu of further pension accrual from 5 April 2006.
In the case of Mr Nicolson, this included a pension allowance until 5 April 2006, and from 6 April 2006 includes an allowance in lieu of further pension accrual.
Benefits in kind comprise benefits received otherwise than in cash, being medical insurance, a beer and wine 0 28 Apr 02 27 Apr 03 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 and spirits allowance, subscriptions to professional and trade bodies and the appropriation of shares under Scottish & Newcastle: total shareholder return the share incentive plan.
FTSE 100 Indexed: total shareholder return 3 Sir Angus Grossarts fees are paid to Noble Grossart Limited.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 33 SHARES Summary The beneficial interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of 20p in the Company at 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005 are as follows: Directors 31 December 31 December Remuneration Name 2006 2005 Report Dr N C Bain 6,000 6,000 continued P Bowman 20,000 J M Dunsmore 136,759 133,450 A G Froggatt 47,012 36,371 Sir A Grossart E J V Hartwall 8,994,059 8,994,059 I G McAllister I P McHoul 71,692 65,853 J R Nicolson 90,844 81,220 Sir Ian Robinson 3,000 3,000 Sir Brian Stewart 257,749 255,899 H V L Therman 3,055,859 3,055,859 B Wallace 1,300 Certain of the interests in the fully paid ordinary shares include shares held as participants in the profit sharing scheme.
These interests also include shares purchased through the Deferred Bonus Scheme as well as those shares purchased and matching shares received under the share incentive plan.
Executive Directors also have an interest as potential beneficiaries, along with other employees, in 0.9 million ordinary shares held by the Trustees of the Scottish & Newcastle employee share trusts at 31 December 2006.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Sir Brian Stewart has a letter of appointment entitling him to an annual salary, together with the use of a car and life assurance.
He does not participate in any of the Companys continuing incentive plans except for the Executive Share Option Scheme and receives no other continuing cash benefits.
The fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board and reviewed annually to reflect market rates.
The fees comprise a basic fee together with a further fee for membership or chairmanship of a committee.
Non-Executive Directors may receive a further fee for membership of the Board of a subsidiary or associate company.
Fees are reviewed annually by the Board, with a view to setting them in line with general market practice, as identified in available market surveys.
The Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, do not participate in any of the Companys incentive plans and receive no pension or other benefits.
The Non-Executive Directors are not involved in any discussions or decisions about their own remuneration.
I G McAllister Chairman, Remuneration Committee We have examined the Groups summary financial Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Independent statement for the year ended 31 December 2006 which Our report on the Companys full annual financial comprises the Summary Group Income Statement, statements describes the basis of our audit opinions Auditors Summary Group Balance Sheet, and the Summary on those financial statements and the Directors Statement to Group Cash Flow Statement, on pages 34 and 35.
the Members This report is made solely to the Companys members, OPINION as a body, in accordance with Section 251 of the In our opinion the summary financial statement is of Scottish & Companies Act 1985.
To the fullest extent required by consistent with the full annual accounts, Report of the law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to the Directors and Directors Remuneration Report, Newcastle plc anyone other than the Company and the Companys of Scottish & Newcastle plc for the year ended members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 31 December 2006 and complies with the applicable or for the opinions we have formed.
requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and regulations made thereunder.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS Ernst & Young LLP The Directors are responsible for preparing the Registered Auditor Annual Review in accordance with applicable law.
Edinburgh Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion 20 February 2007 on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the Annual Review with the NOTES: full annual accounts, Report of the Directors and 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Scottish Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance & Newcastle plc website is the responsibility with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of of the Directors: the work carried out by the the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made auditors does not involve consideration of these thereunder.
We also read the other information matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept contained in the Annual Review and consider no responsibility for any changes that may have the implications for our report if we become occurred to the summary financial statement aware of any apparent misstatements or material since it was initially presented on the website.
inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial BASIS OF OPINION statements may differ from legislation in We conducted our examination in accordance with other jurisdictions.
Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 33 SCN-006 REVIEW.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 34 2006 2005 Summary Before After Before After Group Income exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items m m m m Statement A.
Operating profit 355 266 353 300 31 December 2006 Interest 65 44 73 55 Profit before tax 290 222 280 245 Tax 55 32 59 46 Profit after tax 235 190 221 199 C. Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 96 113 65 49 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 331 303 286 248 2006 2005 Pence Pence D. Basic earnings per share 32.7 27.7 Diluted earnings per share excluding exceptional items 35.6 31.9 E. Dividend per share 21.66 21.13 The Directors emoluments are shown on page 32.
Revenue and operating profit in the statement above exclude the Groups share of the results of joint ventures associates as required by accounting standards.
However, to aid understanding of the overall Group performance the analysis by geographical segment includes the results of joint ventures associates.
Revenue m Exceptional items in 2006 comprise costs relating to reorganisation initiatives 99m, profits on the disposal 2006 1 of properties 13m, profits on business disposals 10m, profits on interest 25m and tax relief on exceptional 1 UK 1,864 3 items 23m.
REVENUE Sales and other trading income of the Group after eliminating inter Group transactions.
OPERATING PROFIT Profit from operations after deducting the net operating costs of the Group.
2005 1 3 1 UK 1,771 C. SHARE OF PROFIT OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 2 International 1,551 The Groups share of the net profit of businesses where the Group has a significant shareholding 3 BBH 604 but does not have a majority of the voting rights.
Total: 3,926 D. EARNINGS PER SHARE 2 i Basic earnings attributable to each ordinary share.
ii Diluted: as basic adjusted for share options.
Operating profit before unallocated costs and E. DIVIDEND PER SHARE exceptional items m The total dividend proposed in respect of the year.
Comprising the interim dividend which was paid during the year and the final dividend which will, if approved at the AGM, be paid in the following year.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 35 2006 2005 Summary m m Non current assets 5,582 5,329 Group Current assets 1,325 1,472 Balance Current liabilities 1,558 1,574 Non current liabilities 1,997 2,181 Sheet Total net assets 3,352 3,046 Total equity 3,352 3,046 2006 2005 Summary m m F. Cash flow from operations 391 339 Group Capital expenditure 119 159 Cash Flow Investments 16 48 G. Asset disposals 125 86 Statement Operating cash flow 381 314 Interest, tax and dividends from joint ventures 28 48 Free cash flow 353 266 H. Acquisitions and disposals 340 113 Dividends paid 194 186 Net cash flow 181 33 Net debt 1,912 2,040 Capital expenditure m F. CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS 2006 Cash generated by the business before net capital investment, interest, tax and dividends.
1 1 UK 53 2 International G. ASSET DISPOSALS 66 Sale of property, plant and equipment.
Total: 119 H. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS 2 Purchase and sale of businesses.
In 2006 includes 314m for the acquisition of the Fosters brand.
1 2005 1 UK 86 2 International 73 Total: 159 2 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 35 SCN-006 REVIEW.
qxp 19 3 07 12:05 Page 36 SCOTTISH & NEWCASTLE SHARE dividend will be in your account on the same Shareholder DEALING SERVICE day the Company makes the payment.
The Company has arranged for Shareview Dealing, Information a telephone and internet share dealing service Your tax voucher will be posted directly to your own offered by Lloyds TSB Registrars, to be made address.
Shareholders who have not yet arranged available to UK shareholders.
For telephone dealing to use and wish to use this method of payment call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, should telephone the registrars on 0870 601 5366.
Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing log The Company encourages you to have your dividends on to www.
You will paid direct to a bank or building society.
need your shareholder reference number shown on your share certificate.
DIVIDENDS S&N SHAREBUILD DIVIDEND RE-INVESTMENT PLAN FURTHER INFORMATION The Company operates S&N ShareBuild which is a If you would like further information on share dealing dividend re-investment plan.
The S&N ShareBuild rules please contact the Company at its registered office.
brochure and application form can be obtained from the registrars, the Company Secretarys office SHARES or the S&N website.
The closing prices of our ordinary shares during the course of the year were: REGISTRARS SHAREVIEW WEBSITE The registrars provide an online service that enables shareholders to access details of their S&N 2 January 2006 486.50p shareholdings.
A shareholder wishing to view the 9 January 2006 low 482.25p information, together with additional information 27 October 2006 high 570.50p such as indicative share prices and details of recent 31 December 2006 559.50p dividends, should visit www.
co. uk REGISTRARS CAPITAL GAINS TAX INFORMATION Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland, The sale of shares by a UK shareholder may give PO Box 28448, Finance House, Orchard Brae, rise to a capital gains tax liability.
Chargeable Gains Act 1992 charges only gains made Telephone Shareholders since 31 March 1982.
At 31 March 1982, the capital Helpline 0870 601 5366. gains value for an ordinary share was 52.5p and was Brokers Helpline 0891 105 366.
The adjusted price of 164.4p is for shareholders who subscribed for their full entitlement REGISTERED OFFICE under the rights issues in October 1993 and May 1995.
DIVIDENDS PAYMENT DIRECT TO BANKS T: 0131 203 2000.
Dividends can be paid direct to your bank or building F: 0870 333 2121. society account using the Bankers Automated E: enquiry s-n. com @ Clearing Service BACS.
The closing date for this offer is 21 May 2007.
WEBSITE You may wish to view the Company website containing details of Group activities and investor information.
com 31 December 2006 Financial year-end Financial 2007 Calendar Late March Report and Accounts mailed 31 December 2006 28 March Shares trade ex-dividend 30 March Record date for final dividend 26 April Annual General Meeting 2 May Payment of final dividend on ordinary shares 30 June 2006 Half year-end Early August Half year results to be announced Early October Payment of final dividend on ordinary shares 31 December Financial year-end Shareholders on the register at this date.
36 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 SCN-006 REVIEW COVER.
qxp 19 3 07 11:58 Page CV6 Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Alternatively you may register your vote Notice of Meeting of Scottish & Newcastle plc will be held electronically as explained in the notes to the form at the Edinburgh International Conference Centre, of proxy.
Meeting 150 Morrison St, Edinburgh on Thursday 26 April 2007 To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting at 11.30am for the following purposes: and for the purposes of the determination of the Company of the number of votes a member may cast RESOLUTION 1 members must be entered on the Companys register To consider and adopt the Report of the Directors of members no later than 6.00pm on Tuesday and the accounts for the year to 31 December 2006.
24 April 2007, or if the meeting shall be adjourned, members must be entered on the Companys register RESOLUTION 2 of members at 6.00pm two days prior to the To consider and adopt the Directors adjourned meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy RESOLUTION 3 appointment service may do so for the Annual To declare a dividend.
General Meeting to be held on 26 April 2007 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures RESOLUTION 4 described in the CREST manual.
CREST personnel To re-appoint Mr I P McHoul as a Director.
members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting RESOLUTION 5 service provider s, should refer to their CREST To re-appoint Mr E J V Hartwall as a Director.
sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
RESOLUTION 6 In order for a proxy appointment or instruction To re-appoint Mr I G McAllister as a Director.
made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy RESOLUTION 7 Instruction must be properly authenticated in To re-appoint Mr B Wallace as a Director.
accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, RESOLUTION 8 as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, To re-appoint Mrs B Macaskill as a Director.
regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given RESOLUTION 9 to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors.
valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for RESOLUTION 10 receipt of proxy appointments specified in the Notice To authorise the Board to set the remuneration of Meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will of the auditors.
be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST RESOLUTION 11 Applications Host from which the issuers agent is To increase the maximum aggregate remuneration able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in for all Non-Executive Directors.
the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through RESOLUTION 12 CREST should be communicated to the appointee To authorise the Company to communicate through other means.
with shareholders by electronic means and CREST members and, where applicable, their to amend the Articles of Association.
CREST sponsors or voting service providers, should note that CRESTCo does not make available special RESOLUTION 13 procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
To renew the Directors allotment authority.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy RESOLUTION 14 Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST To authorise non-pre-emptive issues of ordinary member concerned to take or, if the CREST member shares in limited circumstances.
is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to RESOLUTION 15 procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service To renew the authority for market purchases provider s take s such action as shall be necessary of the Companys shares.
to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this Formal notice of Resolutions 11 to 15, together connection, CREST members and, where applicable, with an explanation, is contained in the Circular their CREST sponsors or voting providers are referred, Letter to shareholders dated 8 March 2007 in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual which accompanies the Report and Accounts.
concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
By order of the Board The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation Peter Kennerley 35 5 a of the Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001.
Secretary The following documents are available for 28 St Andrew Square inspection at the Registered Office of the Company Edinburgh during normal business hours and on the day of the EH2 1AF meeting at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes 6 March 2007 prior to the meeting until its conclusion: The full Report and Accounts is sent to all i the register of Directors share interests kept shareholders who have requested it.
Otherwise pursuant to Section 325 of the Companies Act the Annual Review is sent.
1985: and A member entitled to attend and vote may ii copies of all contracts of service under which appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, Directors are employed by the Company or any vote on his behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of of its subsidiaries: and the Company.
To be effective, the enclosed form of iii The Companys existing Articles of Association and proxy should be lodged at the office of the Companys the proposed amended Articles of Association with registrars not later than 48 hours before the time of changes from the existing Articles highlighted.
qxp 19 3 07 11:58 Page CV1 navyblue design group Scottish & Newcastle plc T 44 0 131 203 2000 28 St Andrew Square E enquiry s-n. com @ Edinburgh EH2 1AF www.
