Independent Auditors Report on the Company Accounts to the members of Scottish Power plc We have audited the parent company Accounts of Scottish BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Power plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Company Balance Sheet, the Company Statement of Total Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Recognised Gains and Losses, the Company Reconciliation of Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Movement in Shareholders Funds and the related notes.
These of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent parent company Accounts have been prepared under the company Accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report of accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the the Directors to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the information in the Remuneration Report of the Directors that is significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the described as having been audited.
preparation of the parent company Accounts, and of whether We have reported separately on the group Accounts of the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys Scottish Power plc for the year ended 31 March 2006. circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS information and explanations which we considered necessary in The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Remuneration Report of the Directors and the parent assurance that the parent company Accounts and the part of the company Accounts in accordance with applicable law and Remuneration Report of the Directors to be audited are free United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Our responsibility is to audit the parent company Accounts parent company Accounts and the part of the Remuneration and the part of the Remuneration Report of the Directors to be Report of the Directors to be audited.
audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and OPINION Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared In our opinion: for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance the parent company Accounts give a true and fair view, in with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to at 31 March 2006: whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come, the parent company Accounts and the part of the Remuneration save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Report of the Directors to be audited have been properly We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and company Accounts give a true and fair view and whether the the information given in the Report of the Directors is parent company Accounts and the part of the Remuneration consistent with the parent company Accounts.
Report of the Directors to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the parent  LLP company Accounts.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not Glasgow received all the information and explanations we require for our 24 May 2006 audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Notes: We read other information contained in the Annual Report a The maintenance and integrity of the Scottish Power plc and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out company Accounts.
The other information comprises only the by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any Operating and Financial Review, the Corporate Governance changes that may have occurred to the Accounts since they were Statement and the unaudited part of the Remuneration initially presented on the website.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation material inconsistencies with the parent compa ny Accounts.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
