Accounts 2005 06 Accounting Policies and Definitions 70 Principal Subsidiaries and Other Critical Accounting Judgements and Investments 155 Key Sources of Estimation Independent Auditors Report on the Group Uncertainty 81 Accounts 156 Group Income Statement 84 Selected Financial Data 157 Group Statement of Recognised Income Glossary of Financial Terms and and Expense 85 US Equivalents 160 Group Cash Flow Statement 86 Company Balance Sheet 161 Movement in Net Cash and Cash Company Statement of Total Recognised Equivalents 87 Gains and Losses 162 Reconciliation of Movement in Net Cash Company Reconciliation of Movement in and Cash Equivalents to Movement Shareholders Funds 162 in Net Debt 87 Notes to the Company Balance Sheet 163 Group Balance Sheet 88 Independent Auditors Report on the Notes to the Group Accounts 89 Company Accounts 167 market participants in Scotland and England & Wales, and full participation in the British Electricity Trading and Transmission Accounting Policies Arrangements BETTA.
BETTA replaced the New Electricity and Definitions Trading Arrangements NETA in England & Wales with effect from 1 April 2005.
DEFINITIONS BUSINESS SEGMENT DEFINITIONS UNITED STATES ScottishPower defines business segments for management PPM ENERGY The competitive energy development, origination reporting purposes based on a combination of factors, and marketing business serving wholesale customers in North principally differences in products and services and the American markets.
Electricity products and services are regulatory environment in which the businesses operate.
provided from gas generation and renewable wind generation Business segments have been included under either resources located across the US.
Natural gas storage and hub continuing operations or discontinued operations as services are provided from gas storage facilities located in Texas, appropriate.
New Mexico and Alberta, Canada.
The business segments of the group are defined as follows: OTHER CONTINUING OPERATIONS UNALLOCATED For the purposes of segmental analysis this UNITED KINGDOM comprises corporate office costs and the revenue and costs of ENERGY NETWORKS FORMERLY INFRASTRUCTURE DIVISION the non-regulated businesses, previously included within the The transmission and distribution businesses within the groups PacifiCorp segment, which were not included in the sale of authorised area of Scotland and the distribution business of PacifiCorp.
Manweb operating in Merseyside and North Wales.
ENERGY RETAIL & WHOLESALE FORMERLY UK DIVISION DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS The generation of electricity from the groups own power UNITED STATES stations, the purchase of external supplies of coal and gas for the PACIFICORP A  electric utility, disposed of generation of electricity, the purchase of external supplies of on 21 March 2006, that included the generation, transmission electricity and gas for sale to customers together with related and distribution and sale of electricity to retail, industrial and billing and collection activities, gas storage, the sale of gas to commercial customers in portions of six western states: Utah, industrial and domestic customers, and the sale of electricity to Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and California.
The 70 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 operations also included wholesale sales and power purchase M. Mine reclamation and closure costs transactions with various entities.
The state regulatory N. Decommissioning costs commissions and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission O.
Leased assets FERC regulated the retail and wholesale operations.
The P. Risk and financial instruments subsidiaries of PacifiCorp supported its electric utility operations Q.
Financial instruments policies applied in the comparative by providing coal mining facilities and services and figures for the year ended 31 March 2005 environmental remediation.
R. Inventories S. Grants and contributions REVENUE COST DEFINITIONS T. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits COST OF SALES The direct costs of the generation and purchase U. Share-based payment of electricity and the purchase and transportation of natural gas.
V. Environmental liabilities W. Exchange rates TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION COSTS The cost of transmitting units of electricity from the power stations through A.
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING the transmission and distribution networks to customers.
It The Accounts have been prepared for the first time in includes the costs of metering, billing and debt collection.
accordance with International Accounting Standards IAS, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES The indirect costs of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee businesses, the costs of corporate services and property rates.
IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the EU as required by Regulation EC No.
1606 2002 of the European Parliament OTHER DEFINITIONS and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to COMPANY OR SCOTTISHPOWER Scottish Power plc.
In previous years, the Accounts were prepared in compliance with UK Generally GROUP Scottish Power plc and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the Companies Act 1985.
This has resulted in certain changes to ASSOCIATES Entities in which the group holds a long-term previously applied accounting policies.
The effect of these interest and over which the group has significant influence.
changes in accounting policies are explained in the disclosures concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS required by JOINTLY CONTROLLED ENTITIES Entities in which the group IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial holds a long-term interest and shares control with another Reporting Standards set out in Note 42 to the Accounts.
company external to the group.
In preparing these Accounts, the group has applied all relevant IAS, IFRS and Interpretations issued by the IFRIC SUBSIDIARIES Entities in which the group holds a long-term which have been adopted by the EU as of the date of approval of controlling interest.
The differences between IFRS as adopted by the EU and those issued by the IASB are not material to the group.
GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES As permitted by IFRS 1, the standards relating to financial The principal accounting policies applied in preparing the instruments, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and groups consolidated Accounts are set out below.
These are Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition arranged to broadly follow the captions as they appear in the and Measurement have been applied with effect from 1 April Group Income Statement and Group Balance Sheet.
Implementation of IAS 39 resulted in an increase in equity principal accounting policies comprise the following: attributable to equity holders of Scottish Power plc of 281.4 million.
Basis of accounting The group has continued to use its previous UK GAAP accounting B.
Basis of consolidation policies, as amended by IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign C. Goodwill Exchange Rates for financial instruments, as set out in accounting D. Foreign currencies policy Q.
Financial instruments below, in preparing the IFRS E. Revenue financial information for the year ended 31 March 2005.
F. Operating profit The format of the Group Income Statement has been prepared G. Taxation in accordance with the requirements of IAS 1 and reflects the impact H. Intangible assets excluding goodwill of the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 1 April 2005.
Property, plant and equipment Items which are included in operating profit are classified J.
Cash and cash equivalents as exceptional where the directors consider that by virtue of K. Borrowing costs their nature, size or incidence it is necessary for them to be L. Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible displayed as a separate line item or separately within a line item assets excluding goodwill if the financial statements are to be properly understood.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 71 Accounts 2005 06 In order to provide readers with a clear, consistent and entities over which the group has the power to govern the more useful presentation of the group's underlying performance, financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a profit loss for the financial year has been analysed between shareholding that confers more than half of the voting rights.
For i profit before exceptional items and certain remeasurements commercial reasons certain subsidiaries have a different year and ii the effect of exceptional items and certain end.
The consolidation includes the Accounts of these remeasurements.
subsidiaries as adjusted for material transactions in the period between the year ends and 31 March.
The group Accounts also Included in this latter category are: include the groups share of results and net assets of associates items which are included in operating profit but classified as and jointly controlled entities.
exceptional as the directors consider that by virtue of their On acquisition, the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary are nature, size or incidence, it is necessary for them to be measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The cost displayed as a separate line item or separately within a line of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of any assets given, item if the financial statements are to be properly understood.
equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at fair value gains and losses on operating derivatives and the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the financing derivatives including, for 2004 05 only, the impact acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair on results of contracts which were previously fair valued but values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as which are now subject to IAS 39.
All of the group's treasury goodwill.
The interest of minority shareholders is initially stated activities and all but an immaterial proportion of the group's at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and energy management activities are undertaken with a view to liabilities recognised.
In accordance with the exemption economically hedging the groups physical and financial permitted by IFRS 1, business combinations accounted for prior exposures.
A number of these contracts do not qualify for to the groups date of transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004 have own use or hedge accounting under IAS 39 and are therefore not been restated to comply with IFRS 3 Business fair valued through the Group Income Statement.
those contracts which do qualify for cash flow hedge The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during accounting can have an element of hedge ineffectiveness which the year are included in the income statement from the effective is recorded in the income statement.
The directors consider date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as that this accounting treatment of fair valuing economic hedges appropriate.
and the resulting income statement volatility does not The group Accounts include the groups share of the postappropriately reflect the business purpose of these contracts.
In tax results and net assets of associates and jointly controlled order to provide a more meaningful presentation, the fair value entities using the equity method of accounting.
Associates are movements on these contracts have been separated from all those entities over which the group has significant influence, but other aspects of the impact of IAS 39 which remain within not control, generally accompanying a shareholding that confers underlying business performance.
The fair value movements between 20% to 50% of the voting rights.
Jointly controlled on such contracts to the extent they relate to operating entities are those entities over which the group has joint control activities are shown separately in the line item Fair value with one or more external parties and over which there has to be gains on operating derivatives and, to the extent they relate unanimous consent by all parties to the strategic, financial and to financing derivatives in the line item Fair value losses on operating decisions.
On acquisition of all or part of a minority interest in a the reversal of the depreciation charge for PacifiCorp for the subsidiary, the assets and liabilities being acquired are measured period from 24 May 2005, when it became a discontinued at book value at the date of acquisition.
The excess of the fair operation, until its date of disposal, as required by IFRS 5 value of the purchase consideration over the book value of the Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The results of the Operations.
subsidiary relating to the minority interest for the period up until the taxation effect of the above items.
the date of acquisition are included in the income statement as Further analysis of the items included in the column Exceptional amounts attributable to minority interests.
items and certain remeasurements is provided in Note 2 to the As a result of the groups decision to sell PacifiCorp, Accounts.
PacifiCorp has been treated as a disposal group held for sale and This income statement format aligns with the group's a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5.
As a calculations of adjusted earnings per share which were previously consequence of the classification as a discontinued operation, presented in the group's quarterly Accounts in 2005 06. the net profit of PacifiCorp has been shown in a single line Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations, in the B.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION income statement.
The group Accounts incorporate the Accounts of the company The results of discontinued operations include the UK US and its subsidiaries to 31 March each year.
Subsidiaries are those interest rate differential benefit, the loss following fide-designation 72 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 of net investment hedges arising from the groups US dollar Cumulative translation differences in respect of the period hedging programme relating to PacifiCorps net assets and the prior to the groups date of transition to IFRS, 1 April 2004, impact of the US dollar earnings hedges relating to the results of have been transferred to the translation reserve, as required by PacifiCorp.
This programme terminated following completion of IAS 21.
These amounts will be included in the determination of the sale of PacifiCorp.
any future gain or loss on disposal of the related operations.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the C. GOODWILL acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate of exchange.
consideration over the groups share of the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of an acquired subsidiary, E. REVENUE associate, jointly controlled entity or business at the date of Revenue comprises the contracted sales value of energy, goods acquisition.
and other services supplied to customers during the year and Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for excludes Value Added Tax and intra-group sales.
Revenue from impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication the sale of energy is the value of units supplied during the year of impairment.
Goodwill is carried at cost less amortisation and includes an estimate of the value of units supplied to charged prior to the groups transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004 customers between the date of their last meter reading and the less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is year end, based on external data supplied by the electricity and recognised in the period in which it is identified.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate, jointly controlled entity or business, the attributable amount of goodwill is F. OPERATING PROFIT included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
The groups share of the post-tax results of associates and jointly Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 31 March 1998 but controlled entities is included within operating profit as the prior to the groups date of transition to IFRS, 1 April 2004, has operations are closely related to those of the parent and other been retained as an asset at the previous UK GAAP amounts as subsidiaries.
As required by IFRS 1, this goodwill was reviewed for impairment as at the date of transition to IFRS.
G. TAXATION Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 April 1998 was The groups liability for current tax is calculated using the tax written off against reserves.
It has not been reinstated as an rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the asset on transition to IFRS as permitted by IFRS 1 and will not balance sheet date.
be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable disposal.
Further details of goodwill written off to reserves are on the difference between the carrying amounts of assets and set out in Note 33 to the Accounts.
liabilities in the balance sheet and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profits temporary differences, D. FOREIGN CURRENCIES and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Transactions undertaken by each of the groups entities are Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable measured using the currency of the primary economic temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to environment in which the entity operates functional currency the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available and foreign currency items are translated into the functional against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
currency at the spot rate at the date of the transaction.
The Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to groups consolidated Accounts are presented in sterling, which is apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset is the groups presentational currency.
realised, on a non-discounted basis, and is charged in the income The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited to translated to sterling at the average rate of exchange for each equity via the statement of recognised income and expense, in quarter of the financial year.
The net assets of such subsidiaries and which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity and is the goodwill arising on their acquisition are translated to sterling at shown in the statement of recognised income and expense.
the closing rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences which relate to the translation of H. INTANGIBLE ASSETS EXCLUDING GOODWILL overseas operations and foreign currency borrowings and H1.
COMPUTER SOFTWARE COSTS changes in fair value of derivatives to the extent that they are The costs of acquired computer software are capitalised on the effective net investment hedges are taken directly to the groups basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the translation reserve and are shown in the statement of recognised specific software and are amortised on a straight-line basis over income and expense.
Upon disposal of the related operation, their operational lives.
Costs directly associated with the such translation differences are recognised as income or as development of computer software programmes that will expense in the period of disposal.
probably generate economic benefits over a period in excess of ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 73 Accounts 2005 06 one year are capitalised and amortised over their estimated J.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS operational lives.
Costs include employee costs relating to Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand,  development and an appropriate proportion of relevant sale financial assets, held-to-maturity investments to the extent overheads directly attributable to bringing the software into use.
that they are realisable within 90 days and bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand the next business day.
HYDRO RELICENSING COSTS Costs relating to the relicensing of the groups hydroelectric K. BORROWING COSTS plants were capitalised and amortised, generally on a straightBorrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, line basis, over the period of the licence.
This policy applied to construction or production of major qualifying assets, which are PacifiCorp, the groups former regulated US business.
assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, are added to the cost of those H3.
EMISSIONS ALLOWANCES assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for The group participates in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
Purchased emissions allowances are initially recognised at cost purchase price within intangible assets.
Allocated allowances L. IMPAIRMENT OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND awarded to the group by the government or a similar body are INTANGIBLE ASSETS EXCLUDING GOODWILL recorded at nominal value nil value.
The group recognises At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying liabilities in respect of its obligations to deliver emissions amount of its property, plant and equipment and intangible allowances to the extent that the allowances to be delivered assets to determine whether there is any indication that those exceed allocated allowances.
Any liabilities recognised are assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication measured based on the cost of allowances purchased up to the exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order level of purchased allowances held and thereafter at the market to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where price of allowances at the balance sheet date.
the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from The allowances held within intangible assets may be other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the surrendered at the end of each compliance period reflecting the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
As a result no amortisation is recorded during the period.
M. MINE RECLAMATION AND CLOSURE COSTS The main amortisation periods used by the group are set Provision was made for mine reclamation and closure costs out below.
when an obligation arose out of events prior to the balance sheet Years date.
The amount recognised was the present value of the Computer software costs 3 10 estimated future expenditure determined in accordance with Hydro relicensing costs in respect of PacifiCorp 25 local conditions and requirements.
A corresponding asset was also created of an amount equal to the provision.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT together with the cost of the mine, was subsequently depreciated Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost and is generally on a unit of production basis.
The unwinding of the discount was depreciated on the straight-line method over the estimated included within finance costs.
This policy applied to PacifiCorp, operational lives of the assets.
Property, plant and equipment the groups former regulated US business.
includes capitalised employee, interest and other costs that are directly attributable to the construction of fixed assets.
Reviews N. DECOMMISSIONING COSTS are undertaken annually of the estimated remaining lives and Provision is made, on a discounted basis, for the estimated residual values of property, plant and equipment.
Residual decommissioning costs at the end of the producing lives of the values are assessed based on prices prevailing at each balance groups power stations.
Capitalised decommissioning costs are sheet date.
depreciated over the useful lives of the related assets.
The Land is not depreciated except in the case of mines as set unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs.
out in accounting policy M. Mine reclamation and closure costs below.
The main depreciation periods used by the group are as O.
LEASED ASSETS set out below.
THE GROUP AS LESSEE Years Assets leased under finance leases, where substantially all the Coal, oil-fired, gas and other generating stations 22 45 risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the group, are Hydro plant and machinery 20 100 Other buildings 40 capitalised and depreciated over the shorter of the lease periods Transmission and distribution plant 20 75 and the estimated operational lives of the assets.
The Towers, lines and underground cables 40 60 corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a Vehicles, miscellaneous equipment and fittings 3 40 finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligations Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed during the so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining period in which they are incurred.
Finance charges are charged directly 74 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the value.
Unrealised gains or losses on remeasurement of groups accounting policy on K Borrowing costs.
Rentals embedded derivatives are reported in the income statement as payable under operating leases are charged to the income part of fair value gains on operating derivatives and fair value statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
IAS 32 prescribes certain disclosures on the use and impact O2.
THE GROUP AS LESSOR of financial instruments designed to help the users of the Rentals receivable under finance leases are allocated to Accounts understand the significance of the financial accounting periods to give a constant periodic rate of return on instruments to an entity's financial position, performance and the net investment in the lease in each period.
The amounts due cash flows, as well as factors that affect amounts, timing and from lessees under finance leases are recorded in the balance risks associated with future cash flows.
sheet as a finance lease receivable at the amount of the net investment in the lease after making provisions for bad and P2.
RISK CONTROL ENVIRONMENT doubtful rentals receivable.
The groups strategy is to conduct business in a manner benefiting customers through balancing cost and risk while P. RISK AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS delivering shareholder value and protecting the groups P1.
IMPLEMENTATION OF IAS 32 AND IAS 39 performance and reputation by prudently managing the risks The group has adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 in the financial year inherent in the business.
To maintain this strategic direction the ended 31 March 2006.
The EU adopted a regulation in group develops and implements risk management policies and November 2004 as amended in November 2005 endorsing IAS procedures, and promotes a rigid control environment at all 39 with the exception of certain provisions relating to hedge levels of the organisation.
The group has applied the EU-adopted standard in The risk policy developed by the Board is supported by a preparing these Accounts.
Applying the full version of the governance structure, which includes the Executive Team standard as opposed to the EU-adopted standard would have had ET, a Business Risk and Investment Committee BRIC for no impact on the groups financial statements.
In accordance each business, Business Risk Assessment Teams and the with the transitional arrangements set out in those standards, the independent Group Risk Management function.
group has not restated the prior years comparative figures to The structure ensures that the risk management procedures show the effect of IAS 32 and IAS 39.
For the year ended 31 established for each business to identify, assess, monitor, report, March 2005, financial instruments were accounted for in manage and mitigate each of the various types of risk involved in accordance with the groups previous policies for financial its business are adequately designed and implemented and that instruments under UK GAAP as set out below under the heading an effective and efficient system of internal controls is Q.
Financial instruments policies applied in the comparative maintained.
The businesses adhere to their specific business risk figures relating to the year ended 31 March 2005.
The effects of limits and guidelines which are endorsed by the BRIC and the implementation of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 April 2005 are set approved by the ET.
These limits are consistent with the out in Note 43 to the Accounts.
allocation of group risk capital to the businesses.
The business IAS 39 requires that certain financial assets be measured at limits are allocated based upon the groups total risk capital, fair value in the balance sheet with changes in fair value being the capital that would cover acceptable potential losses reported through either the income statement or for availableresulting from market and credit risks.
The Board has allocated a for-sale financial assets, through reserves.
Exceptions apply to certain amount of risk capital, based on a 99% confidence assets classified as loans and receivables and held-to-maturity interval over a two year period.
This risk capital amount is investments, which are measured at amortised cost using the calculated as the maximum sustainable loss over a two year effective interest method.
period such that the groups financial ratios would still warrant With respect to financial liabilities, IAS 39 prescribes an investment grade rating from rating agencies such as measurement at amortised cost using the effective interest Standard & Poors or Moodys.
The risks faced by the group fall into the following Derivative instruments are carried at fair value with special categories: market risk both energy price and energy volumetric rules applying to all financial instruments which form part of a risk, operational risk, credit risk, insurance risk, interest rate hedging relationship.
risk, inflation risk, foreign exchange risk, liquidity risk, derivative Commodity purchases and sales that do not qualify for the risk, administrative risk, legal risk, regulatory risk, political risk, own use exemption are also measured at fair value through the security risk, pension risk and risks relating to the availability of income statement, or through reserves where cash flow hedge generation, adequate fuel supply and transportation.
The Boards position on risk and strategy for risk Embedded derivatives in other financial instruments or management are contained in the group Energy Management and other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when Risk Management Policy.
The Board implements its policies their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of through a rigid risk governance structure, whereby responsibilities ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 75 Accounts 2005 06 are vested with groups, committees and individuals on a global as Market risk well as business level.
Further details on the groups risk policy are The group uses a number of risk measurement procedures and given in the individual risk sections below.
techniques to ensure that risk is kept within pre-approved limits.
Generally, the risk management policy and control These include earnings volatility control daily VaR calculation, environment ensures that transactions undertaken and MtM stop loss limits, price exposure by tenor limits, stress tests instruments used fall into the types of transactions approved by and scenario analysis as well as individual transaction and the Board and are properly validated within the authorised physical position limits.
The latter are defined as a maximum levels of authority.
Transactions include instruments such as commitment value of an individual transaction, physical size of a physically-settled instruments, financially-settled instruments, transaction, VaR impact of the transaction, tenor, instrument types other contractual obligations, regulatory requirements, and and other relevant measures.
Valuation is undertaken on a daily other obligations.
The types of instruments which can be used basis by portfolio and exposure is assessed within a two-year are approved for each business.
Subject to the limits rolling forward horizon.
All valuation models are reviewed and requirements discussed above, no transaction is executed unless approved by Risk Management on an ongoing basis, including it is an instrument approved by the BRIC.
Further information changes to assumptions and model inputs.
Changes that can have on the value of derivative instruments utilised by the group is significant impact on the Accounts require additional review and disclosed in Note 25 to these Accounts.
Authorised personnel approval by the BRIC, ET or Board, as appropriate.
are permitted to engage only in those activities specified in the The group utilises hedging instruments in accordance with business operational policies and procedures.
the approved risk strategies designed to keep exposure within A clear reporting structure has been implemented within the risk limits discussed above.
It ensures that the portfolios are monitored on a timely basis and sufficient information is made available to Operational risk management to enable quick response of the business to the Operational risk is associated with generation, including dynamic characteristics of its market environment.
Those management of physical fuel supply for the former US mining reports include daily position, mark-to-market MtM, Value operations, transmission and distribution and other key system at Risk VaR reports as well as periodical fundamentals assets subject to service or supply interruptions.
It is measured reports, stress and scenario reports, credit watch, credit through the impact of system failures on the fair value of exposure, accounting and insurance reports.
This risk is controlled through The groups exposure and risk management and control insurance, maintenance and prudent operations practices.
activities in the areas with greater significance to the Accounts are reviewed in greater detail below.
Credit risk Credit risk is the financial exposure generated by the potential P2.1 ENERGY MANAGEMENT default of third parties in fulfilling their obligations.
It is The groups risk policy relating to energy management is mitigated and monitored by setting approved credit risk limits at designed to ensure that the energy management and risk both the counterparty and portfolio level.
management EMRM activities are consistent with the level At the counterparty level the group employs specific of risk tolerance acknowledged by the Board and that a risk eligibility criteria in determining appropriate limits for each control and management framework is established and prospective counterparty and supplements this with netting and maintained to monitor and measure risks in existing portfolios of collateral agreements including margining, guarantees, letters of assets and contracts, to develop and define appropriate strategies credit and cash deposits where appropriate.
Counterparty and transactions to manage those risks and to approve and exposures are then monitored on a daily basis.
authorise new transactions and energy instruments.
The policy is The group also sets limits at the aggregate level to ensure reviewed at least on an annual basis to ensure that its relevance the overall portfolio credit exposure remains within limit.
Limits to the current environment is maintained.
on counterparty concentration are placed and monitored at both Each business of the group that engages in energy the individual business level and also on the combined portfolio.
management activities establishes a set of operational policies and procedures incorporating the policies and principles set out Insurance risk in the group Energy Management and Risk Management Policy Where cost effective, the group maintains a wide-ranging insurance and provides detailed information with respect to the roles and programme providing financial protection, predominately responsibilities of each function involved in EMRM activities.
The insurance market has continued These operational policies and procedures are presented to the to show mixed trends in pricing over the past year.
For property BRIC for approval at least annually.
insurance, there has been a general increase in premiums due to The key risk control activities implemented by each the effects of hurricanes and other natural disasters.
Business business to address the energy management and risk interruption insurance has generally increased due to increased management objectives of the group are: exposures arising from significantly higher commodity prices.
76 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 Other classes of insurance have resulted in net reductions in In those cases where transaction risk arises as a result of premiums due to competition in the insurance market and a imports of capital or other goods denominated in foreign favourable loss history.
The group has worked closely with its currencies, the exposure is hedged as soon as it is committed.
insurance advisors and insurers to maintain efficiencies and longterm stability in premium costs.
The renewal of the group's main Liquidity risk insurance policies for 2006 07 has been completed with In order to manage its liquidity risk and create financial commercial insurers delivering a net premium reduction, albeit efficiencies the group arranges that its debt maturities are spread with the group taking on increased exposures for some classes.
over a wide range of dates thereby ensuring that the group is not These increased exposures are not deemed to be significant.
subject to excessive refinancing risk in any one year.
The group also utilises undrawn but committed revolving credit facilities.
P2.2 Treasury The groups risk policy within treasury and financing is designed Derivative risk to ensure that the groups exposure to variability of cash flows and The use of derivative financial instruments other than those asset values due to fluctuations in the market interest and foreign described for energy commodities above relates directly to exchange rates and inflation are minimised and managed within underlying and anticipated indebtedness, foreign subsidiary net levels consistent with the Boards risk appetite.
All treasury assets and business transactions denominated in foreign transactions are undertaken to manage the risks arising from the currencies.
groups underlying economic activities and no speculative trading is undertaken.
The day-to-day treasury activities are performed by P3.
HEDGING ACTIVITIES the groups treasury function.
The latter reports to the Board on a In order to manage the impact of financial risks to the group and regular basis through the monthly group Performance and Risk report results consistent with the operational strategies, the Board Report and is subject to internal audit.
has endorsed the use of derivative financial instruments as hedging tools.
Those instruments include fixed and floating swaps Interest rate risk interest rate, cross currency and commodity agreements, The group is exposed to interest rate risk with respect to its assets swaptions, financial options, financial and commodity forward and liabilities affected by changes in the market interest rates.
contracts, commodity futures, commodity options and other The group manages its exposure to interest rate risk by complex derivatives.
Such physical and financially settled maintaining a percentage of its debt at a fixed rate of interest.
The instruments are held by the group to match exposures and are not long-term targeted benchmark is a mix of 70% fixed rate and 30% held for financial trading purposes.
Exceptions exist in the groups floating rate debt.
The exposure is managed by either issuing fixed competitive businesses, Energy Retail & Wholesale and PPM and floating rate debt in proportions consistent with the groups Energy, where a limited and controlled number of transactions appetite for risk, or by using a range of derivative financial and derivatives may be held for proprietary trading purposes.
instruments to create the desired fixed floating mix.
The group utilises derivative instruments to manage its exposure to the variability of future cash flows caused by risks Inflation risk associated with recognised assets or liabilities or transactions To manage inflation risk, arising from the fact that a portion of highly probable of occurring cash flow hedging.
In addition, UK revenues are linked to inflation, the group maintains part of the group utilises hedging strategies with respect to the exposure its debt portfolio in index-linked liabilities.
This is done either to changes in fair value of recognised assets and liabilities or through issuing such liabilities or through swapping fixed rate unrecognised firm commitments fair value hedging.
The groups target index rate exposure is hedging of net investments in foreign operations is undertaken about 10% of the total liability portfolio.
with respect to the groups US business PPM Energy.
Using regression analysis and comparative value changes, Foreign exchange risk the group designates derivatives as hedging instruments when it is The groups foreign operations expose it to foreign exchange expected that there will be high correlation between the changes risk, both translation and transaction risk.
Translation risk is in fair value of the instrument and the changes in fair value of the associated with changes in the value of the groups foreign assets hedged item.
Such correlation needs to be within the limits of due to movements in the underlying currency exchange rates.
80% to 125% for the hedge to be considered highly effective.
The Transaction risk is seen as the risk of changes in the value of group assesses hedge effectiveness on at least a quarterly basis to transactions and associated cash flows denominated in foreign establish whether the assumptions and application criteria for currencies, due to changes in those currency exchange rates.
The hedge accounting going forward continue to be supported.
The group aims to hedge a substantial proportion of its US net assets group will discontinue hedge accounting from the time that a with dollar liabilities.
The resulting stream of dollar interest on hedging relationship has ceased to be highly effective.
Cash flow natural dollar debt therefore acts as a natural hedge to the hedging designation is only undertaken for future transactions, translation of US profits.
which are and remain highly probable of occurring.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 77 Accounts 2005 06 When certain conditions are met, the group applies the longer expected to occur, related cumulative gains and losses following accounting rules prescribed by IAS 39 for hedging which have been previously deferred in equity are recognised in activities: the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments P3.1 CASH FLOW HEDGES that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the The portion of gain or loss of the hedging instrument that was income statement within Fair value losses on financing determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity derivatives as they arise.
and forms part of the hedge reserve.
The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the hedging instruments is recognised in P4.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS the income statement within Fair value gains on operating Financial liability and equity instruments are classified according derivatives for hedges of underlying operations.
For hedges of to the substance of the contractual arrangements.
They are financing activities, any ineffectiveness is recognised within Fair valued as described in Note 23 Financial assets and Note 24 value losses on financing derivatives in the income statement.
An equity instrument is any contract that the cash flow hedge of a highly probable forecasted future evidences residual interest in the assets of the group after transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset, the deducting all of its liabilities.
associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously All financial assets excluding derivatives are accounted been recognised in equity are released to the income statement in for using settlement date accounting.
line with consumption of the asset.
For hedges that result in recognition of a financial asset or a liability, amounts deferred in P4.1.
EQUITY INVESTMENTS equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period The Group Income Statement includes the groups share of the in which the hedged item affects the income statement.
post-tax results of associates and jointly controlled entities.
The Group Balance Sheet includes the investment in associates and P3.2 FAIR VALUE HEDGES jointly controlled entities at the groups share of their net assets.
The gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair Other investments include investments where the group value is recognised directly in the income statement.
The gain or holds less than 20% of an entitys equity and does not exercise loss on the hedged item adjusts the carrying amount of the significant influence over the operating policies and strategic hedged item when the item would otherwise have been decisions of this entity.
Such investments are initially measured measured at amortised cost and is recognised in the income at fair value.
They are classified as either held for trading or statement.
The group starts amortisation of any such available-for-sale and are measured at subsequent reporting adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged item when the dates, at fair value.
The gains and losses from changes in fair hedging relationship ends.
value of available-for-sale equity investments are recognised directly in equity until the instrument is disposed of or P3.3 NET INVESTMENT HEDGES determined to be impaired, at which point those cumulative The group hedges its net investments in its US operations.
The gains and losses are included in the income statement for the risk hedged relates to a proportion of the foreign currency period.
Investments in equity instruments which do not have a exposure of the groups share of the businesses net assets.
The quoted market price and whose value cannot be reliably proportion of the gain or loss of the hedging instrument that was measured are held at cost.
determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and forms part of the translation reserve.
The ineffective P4.2 DEBT INSTRUMENTS portion of the change in fair value of the hedging instrument is The group measures all debt instruments, whether financial recognised in the income statement within Fair value losses on assets or financial liabilities, initially at fair value.
This is taken to financing derivatives.
On disposal of the foreign investment, the be the net transaction price paid or received.
In cases where gains or losses on the hedging instrument that related to the part of the consideration is for something other than the effective portion of the hedge that had previously been instrument itself, the group estimates the fair value of the recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement.
instruments using a valuation technique whose inputs are made of observable market data, or based on the value of similar P3.4 DISCONTINUING HEDGE ACCOUNTING instruments traded at that time in observable markets.
The group discontinues prospectively hedge accounting when Transaction costs any such costs incremental to and the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, directly attributable to the acquisition, issue or disposal of the when the hedge relationship no longer qualifies for hedge financial instruments are accounted for based on the accounting or when the designation is revoked.
In the case of classification of the instrument by the group.
Namely, transaction cash flow hedging, any gain or loss that has been recognised in costs for all instruments classified as fair value through the equity until that time remains separately recognised in equity income statement are recognised in the income statement until the forecast transaction occurs.
If the transaction is no immediately upon recognition.
For financial instruments carried 78 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 at amortised cost, transaction costs are included in the developed using market prices from independent sources for calculation of the effective interest rate and in effect are liquid commodities, markets and products and modelled for amortised to the income statement over the life of the asset.
illiquid commodities markets and products.
The subsequent measurement of financial instruments Single-variable options are valued against market price and follows their classification by the group.
Dual-variable options are valued against classified as fair value through the income statement are market price, volatility and correlation curves between two remeasured to their fair value with gains and losses recognised in variables.
Volatility curves are developed for open positions in the income statement for the period.
Available-for-sale financial both liquid and illiquid markets.
They are developed from assets are remeasured at fair value with gains and losses recorded actively traded options implied volatility, where markets exist, in equity.
Any related interest payments, impairment losses and or using historical forward volatilities and other relevant market foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the income data.
Correlation curves are developed using historical spot and statement in the period they occur.
Other financial instruments, forward correlations and other relevant market data.
including loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments Structured transactions are disaggregated into their traded are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
core components, and each component is valued against the appropriate market-based curves.
For transactions where a P4.3 COMMODITY CONTRACTS market price for the point of delivery is not actively quoted, if Commodity contracts entered into and held for the purpose of possible, the transaction is valued at the most appropriate point the groups own purchase, sale or usage requirements are of delivery where a market price exists with appropriate accounted for under the own use exemption in IAS 39.
All adjustments for the actual point of delivery, including if commodity contracts, which do not qualify for the own use applicable currency adjustments.
exemption, including those non-physical contracts, entered into Assets owned long position are valued against the quoted for the purpose of trading, but excluding contracts designated in bid price.
If assets are owed short position they are marked to hedging relationships to which special rules apply, are recorded the quoted offer price.
Where valuation incorporates midat fair value on the balance sheet with changes in fair value market price data, additional liquidity adjustments are made to reflected through the income statement.
Details on the the fair value to bring it in accordance with the profile of net accounting policies for hedging are disclosed in accounting long short exposure.
The value of net long volatility positions is policy P3.
marked against the bid volatility curve.
For net short volatility positions, the offer volatility curve is used.
Other adjustments P4.4 TREASURY DERIVATIVES include discounting and credit adjustments, where those have The group uses a number of derivatives to manage exposure to not already been captured in the mark-to-market process.
interest rate and currency fluctuations and the related value of In the absence of quoted prices for identical or similar net investments in foreign operations.
When designated as assets or liabilities, it is sometimes necessary to apply valuation hedges such instruments are accounted for in accordance with techniques where contracts are marked to approved models.
the methods described in accounting policy P3.
Hedging Models are used for developing both the forward curves and the activities.
Additionally, amounts payable receivable under valuation metrics of the instruments themselves where the interest rate hedges are accounted for as adjustments to finance instruments are complex combinations of standard or noncosts finance income for the period.
Any other derivative standard products.
All models are subject to rigorous testing instruments, which are used for the purpose of economic prior to being approved for valuation and subsequent hedging but have not been designated in hedging relationships in continuous testing and approval procedures designed to ensure accordance with IAS 39, are held at fair value with changes from the validity and accuracy of the model assumptions and inputs.
remeasurement recorded through the income statement within Fair value losses on financing derivatives.
COMPOUND INSTRUMENTS Instruments designated in hedging relationships include The group accounts for compound financial instruments that interest rate swaps, forward currency contracts and cross contain both a liability and an embedded derivative component currency interest rate swaps.
The latter swaps allow the by separating these components and assigning individual values designation of one instrument to hedge more than one risk to each of them.
where fixed for floating cross currency swaps are used.
The group accounts for its US dollar convertible bonds as US dollar liabilities with the foreign exchange and equity-linked P5.
VALUATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS embedded derivative components of the convertible bonds The groups valuation strategies for derivative and other separately identified and measured at fair value through the financial instruments utilise as far as possible quoted prices in an income statement.
At the date of issue the value of the liability active trading market.
component was estimated using the prevailing market interest Futures, swaps, and forward agreements are valued against rate for a similar non-convertible debt.
The fair value of the appropriate market-based curves.
Forward price curves are embedded derivatives is the difference between the market value ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 79 Accounts 2005 06 of the convertible bonds and the fair value of similar nonQ5.
Issue costs and the opening value of the The group enters into forward contracts for the purchase and or embedded derivative are amortised through the income sale of foreign currencies in order to manage its exposure to statement to bring the debt back to par value at maturity.
fluctuations in currency rates and to hedge overseas net Prior to the implementation of IAS 39, the US dollar investment.
Unrealised gains and losses on contracts hedging convertible bond was accounted for at amortised cost with no forecast transactions were not accounted for until the maturity anticipation of equity conversion.
Foreign currency receivables and payables that were hedged with forward contracts were translated at the P7.
OFFSETTING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL contracted rate at the balance sheet date.
Spot gains or losses on LIABILITIES hedges of the overseas net investments were recorded on the The group offsets a financial asset and a financial liability and reports balance sheet and in the statement of total recognised income the net amount only when the group has a legally enforceable and expense with the interest rate differential reflected in the right to set off the amounts and intends either to settle on a net income statement.
basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS POLICIES APPLIED IN THE These instruments were used in PacifiCorp, the groups former COMPARATIVE FIGURES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 regulated US business, to hedge fluctuations in weather and Q1.
DEBT INSTRUMENTS temperature in the US.
On a quarterly basis, the group estimated All borrowings were stated at the fair value of consideration and recorded a gain or loss in the income statement corresponding received after deduction of issue costs.
The issue costs and to the total expected future cash flows from these contracts.
interest payable on bonds were charged to the income statement at a constant rate over the life of the bond.
COMMODITY CONTRACTS discounts arising on the early repayment of borrowings were Where there was no physical delivery associated with recognised in the income statement as incurred and received.
commodity contracts, they were recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with movements reflected through the income Q2.
INTEREST RATE SWAPS FORWARD RATE AGREEMENTS statement.
Gas and electricity future contracts are undertaken These are used to manage debt interest rate exposures.
Amounts for hedging and proprietary trading purposes.
Where the payable or receivable in respect of these agreements were instrument was a hedge, the fair values were initially reflected on recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the period of the balance sheet and subsequently reflected through the income the contracts.
Where associated debt was not retired in statement to match the recognition of the hedged item.
Where conjunction with the termination of an interest swap, gains and the instrument was for proprietary trading the fair values were losses were deferred and were amortised to interest expense over reflected through the income statement.
the remaining life of the associated debt to the extent that such debt remained outstanding.
R. INVENTORIES Inventories are valued at the lower of average cost and net Q3.
INTEREST RATE CAPS SWAPTIONS OPTIONS realisable value.
Premiums received and paid on these contracts were amortised over the period of the contracts and were disclosed as interest S. GRANTS AND CONTRIBUTIONS income and expense.
The accounting for interest rate caps and Capital grants and customer contributions in respect of swaptions was otherwise in accordance with interest rate swaps additions to property, plant and equipment are treated as detailed above.
deferred income within non-current liabilities and released to the income statement over the estimated operational lives of the Q4.
CROSS CURRENCY INTEREST RATE SWAPS related assets.
These are used to hedge both foreign exchange and interest rate exposures arising on foreign currency debt and to hedge T. PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS overseas net investment.
Where used to hedge debt issues, the The group provides pensions through defined benefit schemes.
debt was recorded at the hedge contracted rate and the The cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected accounting was otherwise in accordance with interest rate swaps unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at detailed above.
Where used to hedge overseas net investments, each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are spot gains or losses were recorded on the balance sheet and in recognised in full, directly in retained earnings, in the period in the statement of total recognised income and expense, with which they occur and are shown in the statement of recognised interest recorded in the income statement.
The current service cost element of the pension charge is deducted in arriving at operating profit.
The expected return on pension scheme assets and interest on 80 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 pension scheme liabilities are included within finance income and finance costs.
The retirement benefits obligation recognised Critical Accounting Judgements in the balance sheet represents the net deficit in the groups and Key Sources of Estimation defined pension schemes together with the net deficit in the Uncertainty groups other post-retirement benefit arrangements, principally healthcare benefits, which are accounted for on a similar basis to IFRS the groups defined benefit pension schemes.
In preparing the Accounts in conformity with IFRS, the directors are required to make estimates and assumptions that U. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT impact on the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets IFRS 2 Share-based Payment has been applied to all grants of and liabilities.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
equity instruments after 7 November 2002, in accordance with Certain of the groups accounting policies have been identified the transitional provisions of the standard.
The group makes as requiring critical accounting judgements or involving equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees under particularly complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
the terms of the groups various employee share and share These are discussed below and have been determined by the option schemes.
Equity-settled share-based payments are groups senior management and approved by the Audit measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a Committee and should be read in conjunction with the full straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate statement of Accounting Policies.
of the shares that will ultimately vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a Monte Carlo simulation i IFRS FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS method in respect of the groups Long Term Incentive Plan and The group accounts for its derivative financial instruments in the binomial method for the groups other share schemes.
IAS 39 requires all derivatives to be expected lives used in the model have been adjusted for recorded as assets and liabilities in the balance sheet at their fair estimates of the effects of non-transferability, exercise value, except for those which qualify for specific exemption restrictions and behavioural considerations.
under the standard such as commodity contracts which are for Own shares held under trust for the groups employee share the purposes of the groups own purchase, sale or usage schemes are deducted in arriving at shareholders equity.
For derivatives designated as effective cash flow Purchases and sales of own shares are disclosed as changes in hedges, the changes in fair value of the derivative assets and shareholders equity.
liabilities are initially recognised in the hedge reserve and then subsequently transferred to the income statement as the hedged V. ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES item is recognised in the income statement.
For derivatives Provision for environmental liabilities is made when expenditure designated as net investment hedges, the changes in fair value of on remedial work is probable and the group is obliged, either the derivative assets and liabilities are recognised in the legally or constructively through its environmental policies, to translation reserve.
In all other cases, changes in fair values of undertake such work.
Where the amount is expected to be the derivative financial instruments are recognised in the income incurred over the long-term, the amount recognised is the statement in the period in which they arise.
present value of the estimated future expenditure and the The groups valuation strategies for derivative and other unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs.
financial instruments are set out in accounting policy P5.
W. EXCHANGE RATES The assumptions within the models used to value financial The exchange rates applied in the preparation of the Accounts instruments are critical, since any changes in assumptions could were as follows: have a significant impact on the fair values and movements Year ended 31 March which are reflected in the Group Income Statement and Group 2006 2005 Balance Sheet.
There is little formal guidance to assist in Average rate for quarters ended: applying IAS 39 to non-treasury contracts.
As a result, 30 June $1.86 $1.81 significant judgements must be made in applying IAS 39 to the 30 September $1.79 $1.82 groups energy contracts in particular.
Disclosures relating to the 31 December $1.75 $1.87 groups derivative financial instruments are set out in Note 25 to 31 March $1.75 $1.89 the Accounts.
Closing rate as at 31 March $1.74 $1.89 ii IFRS REVENUE A glossary of terms used in the Accounts and their US In the UK, prices for electricity and gas supplied to retail equivalents is set out on page 160. customers are determined within competitive markets.
The assessment of energy sales to customers is based on meter readings, which are carried out on a systematic basis throughout ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 81 Accounts 2005 06 the year.
At the end of each accounting period, amounts of among others.
The evaluation of these contingencies is energy delivered to customers since the last billing date are performed by various specialists inside and outside of the group.
estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is estimated Accounting for contingencies requires significant judgement by and recorded as sales.
Unbilled revenues included within management regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of accrued income in the Group Balance Sheet relating to the exposure to potential loss.
The directors assessment of the groups retail customers of continuing operations at 31 March groups exposure to contingencies could change as new 2006 amounted to 297 million 2005: 246 million.
developments occur or more information becomes available.
The outcome of the contingencies could vary significantly and iii IFRS TAX could materially impact the groups results and financial The groups tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax position.
The directors have used their best judgement in rates in force at the balance sheet date.
Estimation of the tax applying IAS 37 to these matters.
charge requires an assessment to be made of the potential tax treatment of certain items which will only be resolved once vi IFRS RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS finally agreed with the relevant tax authorities.
In particular, the The group operates a number of defined benefit schemes for its tax returns of the groups US businesses are examined by the employees which are accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 Internal Revenue Service and state agencies on a several year Employee Benefits using the immediate recognition approach.
Assessment of the likely outcome of the examinations is The expense and balance sheet items relating to the groups based upon historical experience and the current status of accounting for pension schemes under IAS 19 are based on examination issues.
In addition, HM Revenue & Customs in the actuarial valuations.
Inherent in these valuations are key UK and the Internal Revenue Service in the US are reviewing assumptions, including discount rates, earnings increases, the tax aspects of certain financial arrangements with mortality and increases in pensions in payment.
These actuarial ScottishPower Holdings Inc. formerly PacifiCorp Holdings assumptions are reviewed annually in line with the requirements Inc..
The group believes that appropriate provision has been of IAS 19.
The assumptions adopted are based on prior made against potential tax liabilities which may arise as a result experience, market conditions and the advice of plan actuaries.
of this review, however this cannot be guaranteed.
The group chooses a discount rate for each scheme which reflects yields on high-quality, fixed-income investments, iv IFRS IMPAIRMENT OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND specifically AA-rated corporate bonds of a similar duration to EQUIPMENT the liabilities.
The discount rate used for the purposes of In certain circumstances, accounting standards require property, determining the IAS 19 pension charge for the year ended 31 plant and equipment to be reviewed for impairment.
When a March 2006 for the groups principal continuing pension review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is schemes, being the ScottishPower and Manweb pension assessed by reference to the net present value of the expected schemes, was 5.4% for both schemes.
The discount rate used for future cash flows of the relevant Cash Generating Unit CGU, the purposes of determining the pension liability at 31 March or disposal value if higher.
The discount rate applied is based on 2006 and the pension charge for the year ending 31 March 2007 the groups weighted average cost of capital with appropriate is 5.0% for both schemes.
The pension liability and pension adjustments for the risks associated with the CGU.
Estimates of charge both increase as the discount rate is reduced.
If the IAS cash flows involve a significant degree of judgement and are 19 charge for the year ended 31 March 2006 and the pension consistent with managements plans and forecasts.
liability at 31 March 2006 had been based on a discount rate 0.5% p. a. higher or lower than those actually used, the charge v IFRS PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENCIES would have reduced or increased, respectively, by 7 million and In accounting for contingencies, the group applies IAS 37 the pension liability would have reduced or increased, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
IAS respectively, by 240 million in respect of the groups principal 37 requires that a provision be recognised where there is a continuing pension schemes.
present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the US GAAP obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of In addition to preparing the groups Accounts in accordance the obligation.
If these conditions are not met, no provision with IFRS, the directors are also required to prepare a should be recognised.
reconciliation of the groups profit or loss and shareholders Contingent liabilities are required to be disclosed in the equity between IFRS and US GAAP.
The adjustments required Notes to the Group Accounts, unless the possibility of a transfer to reconcile the groups profit or loss and shareholders equity of economic benefits is remote.
Contingent gains are not from IFRS to US GAAP are explained in Note 44 to the recognised unless realisation of the profit is virtually certain.
Certain of the groups US GAAP accounting policies Appropriate disclosures of contingent liabilities are made have been identified as requiring critical accounting judgements regarding litigation, tax matters, and environmental issues, or involving particularly complex or subjective decisions or 82 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 assessments and these are discussed below.
The discussion iii US GAAP RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS below should be read in conjunction with the full discussion of The group accounts for its pension schemes under US GAAP in the differences between the groups IFRS and US GAAP accordance with FAS 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions.
accounting policies set out in Note 44 to the Accounts.
Under FAS 87, certain of the groups pension schemes had assets with a fair value at 31 March 2006 that was less than the i US GAAP DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS accumulated benefit obligation under the schemes at the same US GAAP requires all derivative financial instruments within date.
As a result, at 31 March 2006 the group recognised a the scope of FAS 133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments minimum pension liability under US GAAP of 159 million, of and Hedging Activities and certain other subsequent amending which 159 million was charged to accumulated other standards and guidance to be fair valued.
Although there are comprehensive income.
The discount rate used for the purposes differences of detail between US GAAP and IFRS with respect of calculating the charge under US GAAP for the groups to accounting for derivative financial instruments for which no principal continuing pension schemes was 5.4%.
The discount ready market exists, the assumptions used to value these rate used to calculate the minimum pension liability at 31 March instruments are equally critical under both US GAAP and IFRS.
If a discount rate had been used for accumulated benefit obligation purposes which was 0.5% p. a. higher or lower ii US GAAP IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL than that actually used, the impact would have been to reduce or FAS 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets deals with the increase, respectively, the minimum pension liability by 56 accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets upon their million in respect of the groups principal continuing pension acquisition and their subsequent measurement.
requires that goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment at least annually.
Under FAS 142, the impairment test is in two stages.
The first step is a screen for potential impairment.
This compares an estimate of the fair value of the reporting unit that contains the goodwill with the carrying value of the net assets including goodwill in the balance sheet of that reporting unit.
If this identifies a potential impairment then the second step is required.
This requires assigning fair values to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit similar to what would be required under acquisition accounting.
The difference between the fair value of these net assets and the estimate of the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole provides an implied fair value of the goodwill.
If this implied fair value is less than the carrying value of the goodwill, then goodwill is impaired and an impairment charge requires to be recognised.
In accordance with the requirements of the standard, the group performed its annual review at 30 September 2005.
No impairment was identified as a result of this review.
