com to catch up on the Foroverseas shareholders in certain current share price, latest news in the countries, Computershare offers aGlobal investors section and read the Annual Payment Service.
This service offers Review and Accounts.
shareholders the abilitytohave their dividend converted into their local currency and sent electronically to their local bank Registrars account, for afixed fee of 5 sterling.
To Administrative enquiries about the holding of sign up for this service, you need to Serco Group plc shares and enquiries in register with Computershares Investor relation to the Serco Dividend Re-investment Centre service at: Plan DRIP should be directed to: www.
Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82  The Pavilions Serco is very proud to participate in eTree.
Bridgwater Road eTree is aservice through which you can Bristol BS99 7NH register to receive communications about Shareholder helpline: 44 0 870 873 5839 Serco electronically.
com eTree for electronic communications, you will receive emails alerting you to communications as they become available.
 As part of the programme Serco will also Youcan elect to receive future dividends as donate anative sapling, per participating shares rather than cash by participatingin Shareholder, tothe Woodland Trust.
For further information or to participate in eTree you will need your register, please contact Computershare on shareholder reference number and register the number provided above for acopy of at www.
the terms and conditions booklet and mandate form.
 account Avoids the risk of cheques being lost in the post Noneed to present cheques for payment Dividend credited to your account on payment date.
To set up adividend mandate or change your existing mandated details, please register with the Investor Centre via the Computershare website or contact Computershare on the number provided above.
com 131 ShareDealing We have arranged the following services that can be used to buy or sell Serco shares.
Alternatively, ifshareholders hold ashare certificate they can also use any bank, building society or stockbroker offering share dealing facilities.
Shareholders in any doubt about buying or selling their shares should seek professional financial advice.
For EU shareholders share account members Telephone Internet: Buy or sell shares over the telephone or internet through  Services.
Fortelephone purchases or sales call 0870 873 5839 between 8.00 am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
For internet purchases or sales log on to: www.
Postal: Cazenove &CoLimitedprovides apostal dealingservicetobuy and sell Serco shares.
All transactions are undertaken on an execution only basis.
Forfurther information please contact Cazenove at: Sharedealing Service, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA, United Kingdom, Tel: 44 0 20 7155 5155 For Non EU shareholders Currently, non EU shareholders may only buy or sell shares through the Cazenove postal service see above.
ShareholderProfile The range and size of ordinary shareholding at 31 December 2006 is set out below: Range of shareholdings No.
The paper used in this report is Greencoat Plus Velvet.
Greencoat Plus Velvet is made from 80% recycled post-consumer bre.
SercoGroupplc Registered Ofce Serco House 16 Bartley Wood Business Park Bartley Way Hook Hampshire RG27 9UY United Kingdom T 44 0 1256 745900 E generalenquiries@serco.
com Serco Group plc is a company registered in England and Wales No.
 Contents Highlights 2 Our Business 4 Chairmans Statement 6 Chief Executives Statement 10 Operational Performance 16 Finance Review 26 Summary Financial Statement 33 Directors Proles 42 Consolidated Income Statement 44 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 44 Consolidated Balance Sheet 45 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 46 Independent Auditors Statement 47 Shareholder Information 48 Financial Calendar 50   .
com 1 Highlights Revenue profit Before Taxand including share of joint ventures Amortisation m m 2,548 124 2,260 92 1,637 1,556 71 1,326 67 57 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2006 includes 11.4m gain on sale Earnings per Share Dividend per Share before amortisation pence pence 3.60 17.13 2.97 14.09 2.63 2.34 11.46 11.03 2.06 9.58 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2006 excludes gain on sale Note: 2002 to 2003 under UK GAAP, 2004 restated under IFRS 2Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Highlights 2006 2005 Revenue 2,548.2m 2,260.3m up 12.7% profit before tax 107.4m 77.9m up 37.9% Earnings per share EPS 16.62p 11.66p up 42.5% profit before tax, amortisation and gain on sale 112.2m 91.5m up 22.6% EPS before amortisation and gain on sale 17.13p 14.09p up 21.6% Dividend per share 3.60p 2.97p up 21.2% Group free cash ow 85.4m 73.8m up 15.7% ExcellentPerformance  3bn of contracts signed including Forward order book of 13.9bn at Docklands Light Railway 400m, 31 December 2006 Defence Science and Technology Contracts valued at an additional 3.5bn Laboratories 500m, London at preferred bidder stage Development Agency 69m and Acacia Visibility of 91% of planned revenue for Prison AUS$155m 2007, 77% for 2008 and 64% for 2009 Appointed preferred bidder on 1.9bn of 23bn of further opportunities identied contracts, including Future Provision of Marine Services 1bn and Forth Valley  Hospital 450m Unprecedented market opportunities Continued to win one in two new bids and driven by social demands for better maintained rebid win rate at more than 90% public services and reduced tax burden, Created strategic Private Finance aligned with the impact of global Initiative PFI investment partnership.
challenges of security, migration Sold six PFI investments for 76.5m and the environment with 11.4m gain on sale and retained Increasing capacity to grow through deep associated operating contracts relationships and capabilities allows us to PBTAmargin before gain on sale of PFIs be confident of double-digit growth of 4.4%, up from 4.0% in 2005 Continued focus on portfolio Group EBITDAtocash conversion of 98% management, selective bidding and resulting in 15.7% increase in group free efficiency will contribute to rising margins cash ow Note: PBTAisprot before tax and amortisation.
Group EBITDAisearnings from subsidiaries excluding joint ventures before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and other non cash items.
Cash conversion is the ratio of Group operating cash ow to Group EBITDA.
Group free cash ow is from subsidiaries and joint venture dividends and is reconciled in Section4ofthe Finance Review.
com 3 OurBusiness CivilGovernment Sercos work in civil government encompasses home affairs, education, health, local government and consulting and some of the most pressing challenges faced by governments around the world.
Security, the threat of terrorism and the increasing cost of crime are key drivers in our home affairs market.
In education, clients are focused on increasing the life chances of our children.
Ageing populations and the rising cost of care are driving more opportunities in the health market and in both our local government and consulting markets we are responding to clients who need to transform services and structures in the face of rising consumer demand and relentless technological developments.
Our home affairs work includes managing prisons, electronically monitoring offenders, developing systems for law enforcement agencies, controlling immigration and improving civil resilience.
We run two local education authorities and are agrowing supplier of school management software.
Our rapidly expanding health business supports hospitals and provides out-ofhours doctor services to more than one million people.
In local government, we arealeading supplier of information technology IT and IT-enabled services.
We also deliver environmental, streetscene and other direct services to councils.
And our consulting capability raises awareness of Serco and enhances our reputation with potential and existing customers, by providing high-value advisory services.
Transport Congestion and falling transport costs are forcing governments and travellers to radically reconsider how to get from AtoBquickly, safely and affordably with the least environmental impact.
Asaresult we are experiencing the smarter use of trafc data, greater use of congestion charging and increasing focus on integrating public transport systems.
Serco is amajor provider of transport services.
With our partner, NedRailways, we run Merseyrail one of the UKs best performing franchises and Northern Rail, which is the UKs largest network.
In Australia, Serco owns and operates the Great Southern Railway, including its two trans-continental services, The Ghan and Indian Pacic.
Our urban transportation business operates the award-winning Docklands Light Railway and isaUKmarket leader in trafc management systems, including the National Trafc Control Centre for England.
In air, weare one of the worlds largest private sector providers of air trafc control services, with operations in the UK, Middle East and the United States.
4Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 OurBusiness Defence As the nature of threats to national and international security change, so the requirements increase for armed forces to operate in more integrated and efficient ways.
Serco is atop two provider of support services to the UK Ministry of Defence MoD, with more than 100 contracts ranging from supporting secure military communications to managing training colleges and providing marine services to the Royal Navy.
Weare committed to the partnering values in the MoDs Defence Industrial Strategy and work with equipment manufacturers to deliver through-life service to the MoD.
We are gaining critical mass in the key North American market, with particular strength in providing IT, engineering, logistics and human resources services to the military.
In Australia, we arealeading service supplier to the armed forces, withagrowing portfolio of contracts, and we also have an established position in the German defence market.
Science The ability to enable innovation, increase skills and manage enormous environmental challenges is leading governments to renew their focus and investment in science.
The pursuit of better solutions to nuclear decommissioning, improving the competitiveness of business and identifying how future energy demands can be met are some of the challenges that face us all.
Serco has builtasector leading position in the science market.
We run the National Physical Laboratory, which is the UKs national standards laboratory and one of the worlds major scientific establishments.
With our partners, we operate the Atomic Weapons Establishment, responsible for the stewardship of the UKs nuclear deterrent.
We also have asignicant position in the civil nuclear market, providing independent safety, risk management and engineering services.
We are alsoamajor provider of support services to the European Space Agency and CERN, the worlds largest particle physics laboratory.
com 5 ChairmansStatement Kevin Beeston Executive Chairman .
6Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 ChairmansStatement Revenue including share of joint ventures 2,548 m 2,260 1,637 1,556 1,326 1,141 958 808 688 572 462 368 289 219 176 126 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 ExcellentYear, CompellingFuture During the year, wesigned 3bn of Thestrengthof Iamdelighted to report that, building on contracts and were appointed preferred very strong growth in 2005, Serco has bidder for contracts valued at around Sercosreputationand again delivered an excellent performance 1.9bn.
We rebid two of our larger in 2006 and the Groups prospects are contracts: rstly, the renewed franchise with ourabilitytodeliver equally compelling.
Transport for London to operate, maintain and support the Docklands Light Railway.
high-qualityservice Revenue grew by 12.7% to 2,548.2m.
The contract is valued at 400m over nine profit before tax increased 37.9% to years and started in May 2006.
In addition, werereectedin 107.4m and earnings per share grew aSerco-led joint venture was selected 42.5% to 16.62p.
as preferred bidder for the UK Ministry maintainedwinrates of Defences MoD Future Provision of profit before tax, amortisation and the gain Marine Services contract, valued at 1bn ofmorethan90%on on sale of PFI investments rose by 22.6% over 15 years.
The joint venture will deliver to 112.2m and earnings per share on the marine support at major UK naval bases in rebidsandoneintwo same basis grew 21.6% to 17.13p.
Portsmouth, Devonport and the Clyde.
The corresponding margin increased from onnewbids 4.0% to 4.4%, benefiting from our portfolio We also signed the 500m contract with management, higher value services and the MoDs Defence Science and efficiency improvements.
Technology Laboratories for the design and build of new facilities and the provision of Our focus on cash generation delivered support services.
excellent results once again, with Group EBITDAtocash conversion of 98% The London Development Agency selected 2005: 90%.
Group free cash ow Serco to provideanew Business Link increased 15.7% to 85.4m.
service to Londons 600,000 small and medium sized enterprises from April 2007.
The strength of Sercos reputation and our The agreement is valued at 69m over ability to deliver high-quality service were three years, plus an option to renew for reected in maintained win rates of more two additional years, and draws on skills than 90% on rebids and one in two on from across the Group.
com 7 In Australia we signedave-year contract We regularly review the funding prole of to manage and operate Acacia prison for our main Group dened benefit pension the Government of Western Australias scheme.
As previously announced, Department of Corrective Services.
70m has been injected into the scheme The client has the option to extend the representing approximately half the deficit, AUS$155m contract by up to ten years.
with 19m added at the end of 2006 and 51m in early 2007.
We also increased The Operational Performance section employer and employee contribution provides further information on contract rates from January 2007.
The sale of wins, on pages 16 to 25. our investments in six PFI projects, the corresponding removal of non recourse We createdastrategic PFI investment debt and the cash injected into the pension partnership with Infrastructure Investors scheme have resulted inasignicant 2 Limited Partnership I and sold equity reduction in debt and simplication of the and subordinated debt in six PFI projects balance sheet.
Wereceivedacash consideration of 76.5m, resulting in a At the year end, our order book stood at Attheyearend, our profit on disposal of 11.4m.
Under the arecord 13.9bn and we were preferred 2 partnership, I will be able to provide bidder on contracts valued at 3.5bn.
We orderbookstoodata equity investment for Sercos future PFI also had bids valued at 4.5bn for which we projects, giving us access toalarge and had been shortlisted to the final two or three record13.9bnand competitively priced source of capital and bidders.
In addition, we have identied a enhancing our ability to compete in this pipeline of further opportunities across our wewerepreferred market.
Serco has retained the associated markets estimated at more than 23bn.
bidderoncontracts The visibility of our future revenue remains We are continuously working to deliver significant.
At 31 December 2006, we had valuedat3.5bn higher-value services to clients, reecting identied 91% of our planned revenue for the increasing skills and capabilities 2007, 77% for 2008 and 64% for 2009. available across the Group.
We also rigorously analyse contracts and markets to ensure that conditions exist for strong organic growth and appropriate returns.
In addition, we continue to improve our internal structures and systems by, where appropriate, providing standardised systems and streamlining management structures.
Asaconsequence, margins have improved and will improve further.
Visibility of Planned Revenue at 31 December 2006 75% 12% 4% 2007 91% 61% 13% 3% 77% 2008 47% 14% 3% 2009 64% Order book Extensions and rebids Preferred bidder 8Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 ChairmansStatement StrongStartto2007 In April 2006, Leonard V. Broese van Serco has also enjoyedastrong start to Groenou joined the Board as a 2007.
The US Army selected our North Non-Executive Director.
Leonard is a American business to provide cost member of the Remuneration, Audit, analysis, logistics planning and supply Nomination and Training and Development chain consulting services worldwide.
He was previously The indefinite-delivery indefinite-quantity Vice-President Human Resources and contract has aone-year base period with member of the corporate executive four annual options and has apotential committee of Air Products.
value of $225m over the five years.
 Other wins includeacontract to manage and operate Yarls Wood Immigration Governments increasingly face the same Removal Centre on behalf of the UK Home issues, driven by social demands for Ofce.
The three-year contract starts in better public services andareduced tax April 2007, with optional extensions for a burden, along with the impact of the global further five years.
Over the full eight years, challenges of security, migration and the contract is valued at around 85m.
Our breadth and depth MoD also selected us as preferred bidder of skills and relationships allows us to for ave-year Gibraltar-based support address new markets and opportunities.
services contract valued at around 50m, Our identied pipeline of opportunities is with afurther option for two years and the in excess of 23bn and this, together with potential for additional work.
our high visibility of revenues, enables us Wearecondentof to be confident of continuing to deliver double-digit growth.
At the same time, our  Dividend continued focus on proactively managing Our policy is to increase the total dividend our contract portfolio, bidding selectively growthandfurther each year broadly in line with the increase and driving internal efficiency will allow us in underlying earnings.
The Board has to further improve margins.
improvingmargins proposed anal dividend of 2.55p per share, representing an increase on the 2005 final dividend of 23.8%.
The total dividend for the year is 3.60p, an increase Group Free Cash Flow of 21.2%.
The final dividend will be paid on 16 May to shareholders on the register on m 85 9March.
74 Board There were two notable events during the year.
On31August 2006, Iannounced my intention to move to the role of 56 Non-Executive Chairman from 1September 2007.
47 It has been agreat honour to be an integral part of Sercos remarkable journey from asmall technical support company to a leading multi-national service company valued at over 2bn and to have served shareholders in many roles over the past 22 years, including Finance Director, Chief 10 Executive and Executive Chairman.
AsInow seek to diversify my business interests, Ilook forward as Non-Executive Chairman to continuing to chair the Board 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 and overseeing the Groups development on behalf of shareholders.
10 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Christopher Hyman Chief Executive   WhatDoesSuccess MeantoYou?
Formore than 40 years, we have built My role as Chief Executive is to put in place Serco by understanding the many different the conditions that will allow us to achieve answers to this question.
We ask it of those our vision the right strategy, people and who use the services we run.
Our approach to these, and their We ask it of our customers.
And we ask it importance, is explained on the next of our employees, shareholders, partners, few pages, along with an overview of suppliers and the communities in which our markets.
Our expertise lies in taking the varied ambitions of our stakeholders and OurStrategy developing innovative, people-led solutions.
We then implement those solutions Sercos strategy is to buildabalanced efficiently, sothat these ambitions are met contract portfolio, spread across different Ourvisionistobe and often exceeded.
We do this through organic growth, which results from theleadingservice Because of this approach, Serco has delivering excellent service and building becomeavery successful business.
long-term relationships with our customers.
companyinour We retain more than 90% of our contracts at rebid, win more than one in two of our ABalanced Contract Portfolio chosenmarkets.
new bids and have grown at double-digit Havingabalanced portfolio brings three rates every year since we listed.
But we do benets: broader exposure to growth Ourstrategyistobuild not measure success purely by financial opportunities, better diversication of risk returns, crucial though they are.
and the opportunity to share good practice abalancedcontract honed by wide experience.
Our vision is to be the leading service portfolio, spread company in our chosen markets.
We aim Exposure to many markets and to be the best partner to work with, the geographies, through more than 600 acrossdifferent company people aspire to work for and the contracts, ensures strong growth company that delivers superior returns to opportunities are always to be found.
Even if one market slows down, our other markets will still deliver more than enough geographicmarkets We will not achieve that vision unless new opportunities.
everyone withastake in Serco believes we help them achieve their ambitions, The breadth of our business also allows by bringing service to life.
We still have a us to select the best opportunitiesthose long way to go butIamheartened by our which meet our requirements for building progress towards our vision and by the long-term relationships, growth during the difference our people make every day.
contract life, return on capital and margins.
This selectiveness underpins our confidence And our success is being recognised.
that we can continue to increase the Groups Forthe third year running Serco was margins in the medium term.
voted the Most Admired Support Services Company in the Management Today survey Risk is diversied because we are not and we won the UK growth category in the reliant on any one contract forasubstantial European Business Awards.
proportion of our revenue, with the largest Northern Railproviding around 10% of More signicantly, colleagues such as Mick revenue in 2006.
Walker MBE achieved personal recognition in the Queens New Years Honours List for the tremendous contribution they make.
Youcan read about Micks view of success on page 20. www.
com 11 Serco Group Executive Team, left to right: Grant Rumbles Chief Operating officer, Andrew White Marketing Director, Kevin Beeston Executive Chairman, Andrew Jenner Finance Director, Christopher Hyman Chief Executive and Clive Barton Corporate Development Director The third benefit is our ability to share best As Sercos organic growth prospects are practice across Serco.
We can transfer strong, we only make acquisitions in two our skills and capabilities from one sector circumstancestobring new skills into the to another and to other countries as their Group or to open up new markets, either markets develop, helping to grow our geographically or in new business areas.
Organicgrowthis business and deliver the service quality our In either case, acquisitions must enhance customers deserve.
Sercos prospects for organic growth.
Organic Growth Delivering Excellent Service and Building Itcomesfromwinning Organic growth is fundamental to Serco.
Long-Term Relationships It comes from winning new work and by Our customers employ us to improve the newworkandby expanding the scale and scope of existing quality of their services.
Sercos devolved structure meeting and often exceedingthe expandingthescale enables this.
Our divisions focus on individual service levels they demand, we attract markets or regions, making them expert in new customers and encourage our existing andscopeofexisting the needs of local customers and allowing ones to expand the scale and scope of them to identify new growth opportunities.
We aim to work contracts in partnership with our customers to Within our divisions, we devolve continually improve our services, to their responsibility as far as we can.
We run each benefit and ours.
And by building these contract as an individual business, making long-term relationships, we retain more Serco more responsive, customer-focused than 90% of our contracts when they and entrepreneurial.
12 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006  OurPeople To succeed, Serco must attract and retain As their name suggests, our Governing the right people.
The skills and aptitudes Principles are not voluntary.
They are the they bring are important but not the only behaviours we expect to see throughout factor.
Tosucceed, our people must believe Serco.
They embody Sercos determination in Sercos vision and live by our Governing to act in the best interests of our customers, Principles.
The talented people we recruit our people and bydelivering strong directly or who join us as we win new growthour shareholders.
Our Governing contracts, bring with them apublic service Principles align our people to common ethos that is central to the way we work.
standards, essential in an organisation as devolved as Serco.
Once we have the right people, we must harness their talents effectively.
Weprovide Youcan nd our Governing Principles and training and personal development on what they mean on page 15. the job, on internal programmes and with outside training organisations.
These ensure continuous improvement at both personal and company levels.
MarketDevelopment Weareproudto People development is core to how we The world in which we operate is changing manage our business.
Each contract is faster than ever.
Governments, communities combinecommercial required to have succession plans that and individuals are increasingly bring through the next generation of experiencing the same challenges: know-howwitha managers.
This allows our longer-serving dealing with climate change, declining contract managers to continue their own energy reserves, rising migration, ageing deeppublicservice development and take on different roles, populations and increasing health needs, often running new contracts we bring into the threat of terrorism and the challenge of ethosandwework the Group.
These transformational issues are further inuenced by new technology, hardtoprotectthat The breadth of Sercos business also globalisation, increasing demands for benets our people, offering them career better services, increasing costs of service spiritbylivingour paths that are unavailable in more narrowlyprovision and citizens unwillingness to focused organisations.
This helps us to accept higher tax burdens.
GoverningPrinciples motivate and retain people.
Serco also gains, since bringing together people from Serco is ideally placed to help governments different backgrounds promotes original resolve their challenges.
Our teams thinking and fresh approaches to the work efficiently deliver service transformations we do.
that improveawide variety of public services around the world.
We have grown strongly for the last 20 years, as successive UK governments have led the way in reforming public services and enabling OurCultureand new models of service delivery.
This has deliveredavery strong and highly visible GoverningPrinciples forward order book and bid pipeline.
Serco is one company made up of many businesses.
Although the cultures vary, As governments around the world they are based on asingle, fundamental are dealing with the same issues and set of values.
We are proud to combine increasing the rate of reform of their public commercial know-how with adeep services, we are increasingly seeing public service ethos and we work hard to opportunities to transfer our experience protect that spirit by living our Governing to international markets.
delivering for one governmentafew years ago, we are now delivering for several.
com 13 The nature of Sercos broad portfolio of In our education business, improving skills, relationships, contracts, markets outcomes is driving new ways of organising and geographies, combined with our service delivery.
The Childrens Services inherent ability to deliver through change, Act requires those working in social means that we are very well placed to services, health and education to work continue to grow.
Ten years ago, Sercos together for the benefit of children.
Local annual revenue was less than 500m and authorities throughout England and Wales Theworldinwhichwe our businesses in home affairs, transport are using our organisational design and IT and business process outsourcing were transformation capabilities to manage this operateischanging just developing.
These have become change programme.
substantial businesses in the UK and are fasterthanever.
Serco also driving growth internationally.
In transport, better utilisation of existing road and rail infrastructure is proving an isideallyplacedto Our home affairs business is helping environmentally and economically attractive governments to address common issues proposition.
Issues of congestion, carbon helpgovernments including reducing re-offending and emissions, safety and journey reliability the cost of crime, managing increasing are being addressed through innovative resolvetheir migration and tackling the threat of technology and improved transport terrorism.
Serco is the only company integration.
Serco is at the forefront of using challenges competing in each of the market subtechnology and operational delivery to sectors of civil resilience homeland security, better manage the movement of vehicles, migration control, offender management such as through the UKs Active Trafc and law enforcement.
We expect more Management scheme and Englands growth both in the UK home affairs National Trafc Control Centre.
marketalready approaching 3bn per annumand overseas, particularly in International commitments have stretched Australia and the US.
defence budgets in the US and the UK.
Private sector provision of back ofce In the UK local government market, the support releases uniformed troops for front priority for councils is building better and line service, and can deliver significant cost safer communities, with particular focus efficiencies and innovation.
In the UK, the on children and young people, health, MoDs spend on services is expected to economic development and independent increase, driven by integration across the living.
To meet the needs of local markets, armed forces of equipment procurement we work in partnership with the emergency, and maintenance.
This is evident in the health and education services, utility merger of the Defence Logistics companies and private and voluntary Organisation with the Defence Procurement organisations.
Serco operates across Organisation, and the Defence Training the whole community to make citizens Review, which is integrating training, where lives better, whether through running a appropriate, across the armed forces.
local education authority, piloting telecare In the US, pressures on defence spending projects to enable independent living, have delayed contracting of some support working to reduce re-offending levels or services.
However, significant opportunities helping small businesses to grow.
The remain in the US and more opportunities skills, services and support we provide are emerging in Australia.
align with the Gershon-related drive to improve efficiency through joined-up An important new market has developed government, and enable more to be spent in the UK for the decommissioning of the on front line services by increasing back countrys civil nuclear liabilities.
is valued at around 70bn in total, equating to more than 2bn per annum.
Serco has Within health, expansion of the UK  consortium to address funded market is driven by the demand this opportunity.
for better outcomes from nite resources.
Our growing presence in primary care and occupational health is complemented by an established offering in hospital support services, all of which means we can addressasubstantial part of this market.
14 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006  FutureSuccess Ibelieve we have put the foundations in Serco has an outstanding record of place for future success.
developing new businesses, by taking our skills and capabilities into new market Foraslong asIhave worked in Serco, we sectors and new countries.
Our ability to do have talked of the Group being like afamily.
this will make our future as compelling as As we grow, wewill put that family feel to our past.
the test but we are, and always will be, a people-focused organisation.
These challenges also mean that the ambitions of our stakeholders are We deliver people-led change inaworld constantly evolving.
ForSerco to continue that faces an increasingly shared set of to succeed and achieve its vision, we must challenges.
These challenges are making never stop asking: What does success us all rethink how we live and provide new mean to you?
opportunities for us to grow as acompany.
 We foster an entrepreneurial culture We are passionate about building innovative and successful businesses.
This means we succeed by encouraging and generating new ideas.
We trust our people to deliver.
Weembrace change and by taking measured risks encourage creative thinking.
We enable our people to excel Our success comes from our commitment and energy to go the extra mile.
This means we are responsible to each other and can expect support when we need it most.
We expect our people to achieve more by recognising and harnessing the power of individuals.
We value people for their knowledge, ideas and potential to contribute.
We deliver our promises We do what we say we will do to meet expectations.
This means we only promise what we can deliver.
Ifwemake mistakes we put them right.
We are clear about what we need to achieve and we expect to makeafair profit.
We build trust and respect We build trust and respect by operating inasafe, socially responsible, consistent and honest manner.
This means we never compromise on safety.
We treat others as we would wish to be treated and challenge when we see something is wrong.
All Serco employees are expected to adhere to the highest standards in dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers or shareholders.
By setting these standards and by supporting each other, weaim to get the best out of our people and subsequently the best service for our customers.
This is vital to our ongoing business.
Clare Sly 16 Mother Annual Review ofap and upil Summary at aW Financial alsall Statement school 2006  CivilGovernment  homeaffairs,  BPO, localgovernment, education, health, consulting, .
HomeAffairs Additionally, in2006 we createdastrong Ourteamshave Home affairs encompasses our work in foothold in the changing Australian offender management, law enforcement, offender management market.
We were succeededin civil resilience and immigration control.
selected by the Government of Western Our teams have succeeded in signicantly Australias Department of Corrective signicantlygrowing growing existing services, extending into Services to manage and operate the important new markets and delivering medium security Acacia Prison.
The existingservices, quality services in complex environments.
contract is valued at AUS$155m over five years, with the potential to extend by up expandinginto We began our contract to provide electronic to ten years.
Sercos proven success in monitoring EM of offenders in Scotland.
prisoner rehabilitation and re-integration importantnew Volumes in both this contract and our programmes and our specic Indigenous contracts in England and Wales have Strategy were crucial elements to the marketsand increased as the benets of EM have been successful securing of the contract.
deliveringquality Further home affairs opportunities have The capacity constraints in the UK prison been identied in Australia, including servicesincomplex estate have also led the Home Ofce to prison management, electronic monitoring, order extensions to existing prisons and transport and migration management.
environments centres managed by us, valued at more than 79m.
Our successful operation of Colnbrook Immigration Removal Centre, near The National Offender Management Service Heathrow, was instrumental in securing the is the UK Governments new body for contract to run Yarls Wood Immigration protecting the public and rehabilitating Removal Centre.
The contract starts in offenders in new ways, in particular having April 2007 for an initial period of three years, prison and probation services working with potential to extend for afurther five closer than ever before and by using the years.
Over the full eight years, the contract best that the private and third sectors have is valued at around 85m.
Together with our partners, Raytheon, In the first award of its kind, Serco and third Accenture and Detica, we are part of the sector bodies Turning Point and Rainer Trusted Borders consortium, one of two were chosen to provide employment consortia selected for the final stage of the and rehabilitation support to offenders e-Borders procurement, aUKHome Ofce returning to the community.
The contract, initiative to provide electronic screening and with the East of England Regional Offender tracking of travellers arriving and departing Management Pathnder Project, is valued from the UK.
at around 1.4m to Serco over two years.
com 17 The law enforcement market is developing are key to helping councils meet climate in the UK with proposals to merge police change related targets and freeing up forces being dropped in favour of greater savings for reinvestment inafull range of collaboration between forces and even local improvements.
the sharing of services in order to improve efficiency and service.
Education At Education Bradford and Education ITServicesandBPO Walsall, pupils have achieved signicantly We are benefiting from the skills and improved GCSE andAlevel results, capabilities that Serco Solutions has exceeding the GCSE targets set by our brought to the Group.
Building on the contract win in 2005 to run The Department for Education and Skills the UK Governments Businesslink.
gov web has awardedatwo-year contract to the portal, the London Development Agency Together for Children partnership, which selected us to run the Business Link service is led by Serco.
The contract, valued in London.
The 69m, three-year agreement at around 10m to Serco, supports the is focused on helping the capitals 600,000 development of 3,500 childrens centres small and medium-sized enterprises to across England.
increase their competitiveness, including regeneration opportunities created by the Health 2012 Olympics.
Serco was appointed preferred bidder Serco was also successful in rebidding to provide support services for the new the Envirowise contract for the Department NHS Forth Valley Acute Hospital, valued for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
We have This contract, in conjunction with our drawn on our healthcare experience to partner Momenta, advises and supports inuence the design of the new hospital, UK businesses in minimising waste and including the innovative use of robotics.
In addition to providing health services to Additional business has been contracted Serco-run prisons, our healthcare business over the year, with customers including the is now providing services to prisons run by London boroughs of Southwark and Eneld, the Home Ofce.
We have been awarded and Coventry and Cambridge city councils.
three-year contracts at Cardiff, Bullingdon and Leicester prisons.
Amongst private sector clients, MAN B&W extended its SAP FM support contract Consulting with Serco until the end of 2008 and awardedaseparate contract to provide New awards for our successful consulting SAP application support for the same business included work with the BBC, the period.
Red Bee Media selected us for an Home Ofce, HM Revenue&Customs, IT-enabled change programme valued at the Department for Environment, Food 7.1m over five years.
and Rural Affairs, Carlisle City Council and Cheshire Constabulary.
Projects under way We continue to invest in the capacity and include helping aconsortium comprising capability of the business and we have the Cabinet Ofce, Department for implementedaplanned restructuring to Education and Skills and the Department enhance Serco Solutions ability to grow.
of Health to manage the provision of We look forward to strong growth in electronic government services through an this sector.
LocalGovernment In other aspects of our local government business, we signed and started two new streetscene services partnerships, with Welwyn Hateld Council and Restormel Borough Council, valued at approximately 50m and 45m respectively.
Our services 18 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006  Defence %to645m, representing25%ofGrouprevenue 2005:25%.
Our defence customers operate in an We were selected as preferred bidder increasingly pressurised environment for the MoDs Future Provision of Marine characterised by stringent budgetary Services contract, which will enhance the constraints, operational complexity, operational capability of the Royal Navy demanding performance measures and at Portsmouth, Devonport and the Clyde.
Weenable them The contract is valued at around 1bn over to succeed in this tough environment by 15 years, asubstantial increase from the designing, integrating and applying the previous contract, and will be delivered best possible combination of people, by Serco Denholm, a90:10 joint venture processes, resources and technology between Serco and J&J Denholm.
In July, wesignedastrategic partnership The MoDs Defence Industrial Strategy with the UK Defence Science and emphasisesashift from new platform Technology Laboratories Dstl, for which design and development to the upgrade we were appointed preferred bidder in and maintenance of equipment.
Under the 500m, 15-year contract, is to enhance capability and availability of we are managing the design and build equipment through its lifespan.
To succeed, of new facilities and providing integrated this requiresanew way of working between services across the Dstl estate.
suppliers, and between Government and industry.
Our support for the Governments drive Wewereselectedas to transform through-life capability This is reected inanumber of our contract management will continue in the coming  wins in 2006.
Weare developing the technology 125m 25-year manpower services contract that will enable the MoD to predict and MoDsFutureProvision with AgustaWestland under the Integrated plan for the cost of equipment throughout Merlin Operational Support IMOS its operational life.
The whole life costing ofMarineServices programme.
IMOS is transforming logistics and optimisation model has the potential support for the MoDs EH101 Merlin to deliver significant savings to the MoD, at contract, whichwill helicopter eet while improving availability the same time as enhancing the throughand reducing through-life support costs for life availability of equipment to the front line.
In addition, our defence experts are working  In June, Rolls-Royce wonacontract to in close collaboration with technical and ensure engine availability for the Hercules security specialists in our science and oftheRoyalNavyat C-130 and engaged Serco to provide home affairs businesses to explore the engineers for servicing work on the eet at potential of the Governments Defence Portsmouth, Devonport RAF Lyneham.
Serco and Rolls-Royces Technology Strategy DTS.
The DTS relationship was further strengthened describes the technologies that the MoD andtheClyde throughaMemorandum of Understanding regards as critical to maintaining the UKs signed to provideajoint service offering in defence and security capabilities, playing the defence sector.
to Sercos strengths in defence technology, chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear technology and homeland security.
Clare Sly Mother ofapupil at aWalsall school www.
20 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Mick Walker MBE Operations Manager, RAF Spadeadam  Our contract to provide secure In Australia, we have signicantly expanded communications to the armed forces our presence.
Our Serco Sodexho Defence through the Skynet5satellite programme Services SSDS 50:50 joint venture now was extended by the Defence has apresence on every operational Communications Services Agency and and training base in Australia after being the prime contractor, Paradigm Secure appointed to the Australian Defence Communications.
This takes the contract Forces National Clothing Stores contract.
to 2020, with an additional value of The contract is valued at up to AUS$60m approximately 58m.
to SSDS over six years and presents considerable opportunities for In North America, our solid reputation for organic growth.
providing key services to the military meant that we won contracts, including several for SSDS has also been selected for two other larger, longer and more complex services, major garrison support services contracts againstabackdrop of reduced spending on the east coast of Australia.
In particular, year contracts are valued at more than the existing family support and personnel AUS$400m.
services providedaplatform to expand the reach of those services into other branches of the military.
WewonaMilitary Family Support services contract for the Navy valued at $28m over two years.
This is the first such service we have provided outside the Army.
Our extensive experience in providing administration support to the Army and Navy enabled us to winatwo-year, $6.5m contract with another new customerthe Air National Guardtoprovide administrative support services.
We were also selected by the Chief of the Naval Reserve Command fora$12m contract to assist with their recruiting.
Other examples of expansion of our military services includedave-year contract valued at a potential $34m for the US Army Military Personnel Division MPD in Korea and a similar $12.8 million contract with the MPD for the Army Reserve at Fort Dix.
Our San Diego-based engineering unit was included ina$56.6m multiple award to provide systems development, engineering support, evaluation and logistics for the submarine command in the US Navy Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center.
This win is strategically important for us since it moves us into an area of more complex and integrated services that allow us to showcase our capabilities inabroader range of C4I services.
Rail We have been operating Metrolink for ten Northern Rail and Merseyrailour two joint years, overseeing significant extensions and ventures with NedRailwayshave grown improvements to the service: this contract passenger numbers on the back of rising will end in 2007.
Our contract to operate the levels of customer satisfaction.
At Northern Copenhagen Metro is also coming to an Rail, train punctuality and reliability have end this year.
Merseyrail continues to deliver the levels of service  which have made it one of the UKs best BothNorthernRail performing franchises.
Sercooperatesthe National Trafc Control Centre NTCC on behalf of the Highways andMerseyrail Both Northern Rail and Merseyrail continue Agency.
NTCCisaworld-first facility, giving to deliver excellent safety performance, with areal-time analysis of what is happening continuetodeliver Northern Rail winning the prestigious across Englands motorway and trunk road Sir Robert Horton Award for Safety at the network and helping drivers to better plan excellentsafety 2006 National Rail Awards.
While full implementation has taken longer than expected, we were performance, with With NedRailways, we are bidding to run the delighted that Transport Secretary Alistair West Midlands rail franchise from Darling ofcially opened the NTCC on NorthernRailwinning November 2007.
We continue to work closely with the Highways Agency to theprestigious In Australia, our new timetable for The Ghan achieve formal completion.
commenced, with two weekly services SirRobertHorton now undertaking the 2,000 mile continental Other developments in the trafc crossing between Adelaide and Darwin.
We management sector include new pilot AwardforSafetyat have also committed toaeet expansion schemes to increase the capacity of programme, currently in the design phase, motorways in England and motorway the2006National which will provide additional capacity and technology services.
The Highways Agency potential for revenue growth from late 2007. has selected Serco to develop and maintain RailAwards anew control system for the Active Trafc Management pilot scheme on the M42 to UrbanTransportation better manage the roadspace and utilise the Keydevelopments in the year included hard shoulder during periods of congestion.
signing the new franchise agreement to This contract applies toa17km section of continue to operate, maintain and support the motorway and is valued at 4.5m up the highly successful Docklands Light to 2010.
The seven-year contract may be extended forafurther two years Our trafc management experience is and is valued at around 400m over this attracting interest from outside the UK and extended period.
The new franchise further we have been selected to run systems in improves services through more frequent Sweden, Hong Kong and China.
trains, enhanced security and higher targets for punctuality, customer satisfaction and Air availability of ticket machines, escalators and information displays.
We are also one of In the United Arab Emirates, we successfully the three companies bidding for the Dubai renewed our contract to provide air trafc Metro project, which will be the worlds control and engineering services at the largest driverless urban transport system.
Emirates Area Control Centre, based in Abu Dhabi.
The new contract is valued We were disappointed not to renew the at 11.5m over three years, asubstantial Manchester Metrolink contract at rebid.
increase from the previous contract.
22 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Whatdoessuccess meantoyou?
Jonathan Fox Director, Docklands Light Railway, Transport www for.
24 Steve AnnualJacques Review and Summary Senior Financial Engineer Statement, S 2006 erco Assurance  Science %to403m, representing 16%ofGrouprevenue 2005:15%.
Serco enhanced its position in 2006 as British Energy and Magnox Electric in aleading partner in the practice and support of generating stations.
In addition, management of science and has continued we are assisting the MoD inamulti-million to grow its business in the UK civil and pound study looking at future nuclear defence nuclear markets.
The National Physical Laboratory NPL Sercos expertise in the civil and defence had avital impact on industry and society nuclear elds is being brought to bear in 2006.
In addition to NPLs focus on onadeveloping UK market for the leading edge research in biotechnology, decommissioning of the countrys civil nanotechnology and advanced materials, nuclear liabilities.
the laboratory has established anational framework for training in measurement In 2006, Serco createdaworld-class Sercoenhancedits skills, in partnership with Rolls-Royce.
consortium to address the Sellaeld NPL increased its commercial income decommissioning and operations positionin2006asa by 18%, includinga1.2m contract to opportunity.
The consortium, called SBB run aknowledge transfer network for Nuclear, brings together three leading leadingpartnerinthe Government and work worth 1.9m to international companiesSerco, Bechtel provide equipment and expertise to the and BWXTall with proven track records of practiceand new micro and nano manufacturing centre service delivery, nuclear site management of excellence.
SBB Nuclear is managementof committed to the Nuclear Decommissioning NPL playedakey role in addressing the Authoritys process of selectingaParent science global challenge of climate change.
Its Body Organisation for the Sellaeld Site measurement work monitoring emissions Licence Company and to the safe, secure from power stations, airports and industrial and environmentally sensitive management locations has enabled carbon pricing to be of the site and to supporting the economic based on robust, scientically sound and regeneration of the surrounding community internationally accepted measurements.
Our strong position in the civil and defence Our science business also combines nuclear markets was further enhanced the technical, financial and management during the year through our work at the expertise to deliver some of the UK Atomic Weapons Establishment AWE and Governments most ambitious scienceour technical assurance business.
2006 was another successful year for our We have unrivalled experience in managing work at the AWE, afacility we manage agship government-owned, contractorand operate throughajoint venture with operated facilities at NPL and AWE.
This was the Combined with our safety and technical first full year of the programme to upgrade assurance expertise and track record in skills and facilities.
Within this challenging delivering big, complex programmes on programme, all major projects are on track time and on budget, this puts Serco in and the key performance indicators are agood position to help the Government showing record levels of performance in achieve its National Nuclear Laboratory almost all areas of activity.
programme, and potentially other science management programmes which are Our assurance business increased its currently emerging in the marketplace.
presence in the civil nuclear market, with contract awards from BNG to help with the clean up of the Sellaeld site and from www.
26 Andrew Annual Review Jenner and Accounts Financ 2006eDirector FinanceReview FinanceReview 1.
Financialperformance Sercos financial results for 2006 demonstrate the strong growth in the business, a significant increase in margins and agood cash performance, together with asimplified balance sheet.
Sercos income statement for 2006 is summarised in Figure 1.
This includes the results of joint ventures, which are proportionately consolidated.
Figure1:Incomestatement Year ended 31 December 2006 2005 Increase m m Revenue 2,548.2 2,260.3 12.7% Gross profit 365.7 325.0 12.5% Administrative expenses 235.7 214.3 Investment revenueand financecosts 17.8 19.2 Profit before tax, amortisation and gain on sale 112.2 91.522.6% Gain on sale of PFI investments 11.4 Profit before tax and amortisation 123.6 91.5 35.1% Amortisation 16.2 13.6 Profit before tax 107.4 77.9 37.9% Tax 27.9 23.5 Profit for the year 79.5 54.446.1% Effectivetax rate 26.0% 30.2% Earnings per share 16.62p 11.66p 42.5% Earnings per sharebefore amortisation and gain on sale of PFI investments 17.13p 14.09p 21.6% Dividend per share 3.60p 2.97p 21.2% 2.1Revenue Revenuegrew by 12.7% to 2,548.2m.
Excluding revenuefrom Serco Solutions and RCI, revenue growth was 11.4%.
This increase was primarily due to growth in our contract to operate the Atomic Weapons Establishment.
During 2006, Serco Solutions contributed revenue of 216.2m 2005: 190.6m.
These businesses were acquired in February 2005 and March 2005 respectively.
2.2Grossmargin Gross margin the average contract margin across our portfolio was 14.4% in 2006, consistent with the margin in 2005.
 Investment revenue and finance costs totalled anet cost of 17.8m 2005: 19.2m.
The decrease was due to lower net finance cost on the assets and liabilities of our defined benefit pension schemes.
com 27  PBTA PBTAbefore the gain on sale of PFI investments was 112.2m in 2006, which was an increase of 22.6% from 2005.
This represented amargin of 4.4% in 2006, up from 4.0% in 2005.
Serco Solutions contributed PBTAof16.8m 2005: 14.3m, representing aPBTAmargin of 7.8% 2005: 7.5%, while RCI added 12.4m to PBTA 2005: 9.3m, at aPBTAmargin of 6.7% 2005: 6.5%.
Excluding the profits generated by Serco Solutions and RCI, their associated funding costs and the gain on sale, growth in PBTAwas 22.0%.
 The charge for intangible amortisation in the period was 16.2m 2005: 13.6m.
The increase resulted from afull year of the amortisation of intangible assets arising on the acquisition of Serco Solutions and RCI and increased amortisation of software and development expenditure.
2.6Profitbeforetax Profit before tax increased by 37.9% to 107.4m 2005: 77.9m.
2.7Tax The tax charge of 27.9m 2005: 23.5m represents an effective rate of 26.0%, compared with 30.2% in 2005.
This decrease is principally due to the gain on the sale of the PFI investments not being taxable.
2.8Earningspershare EPS EPS grew by 42.5% to 16.62p.
EPS before amortisation and the gain on sale of PFI investments rose by 21.6% to 17.13p.
EPS is calculated on an average share base of 471.2m during the period 2005: 458.1m.
The increase resulted from acombination of share options issued in the year and the full year effect of shares issued during the first half of 2005, in part consideration for the acquisition of Serco Solutions.
Dividends Sercos policy is to increase the total dividend per share each year broadly in line with the underlying increase in earnings.
The proposed final dividend for 2.55p per share represents a23.8% increase on the final dividend for 2005.
The total dividend for 2006 is 3.60p per share, an increase of 21.2%.
The final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9March 2007.
Cashflow The Group generated afree cash inflow of 85.4m, an increase of 15.7% compared with 2005.
Asinprevious periods, we have designed the analysis to show the true cash performance of the Group the cash flows generated by subsidiaries plus the dividends received from joint ventures.
It therefore differs from the consolidated cash flow on page 46, which proportionately consolidates the cash flows of joint ventures.
The adjustment line in Figure 2reconciles the movement in Group cash to the consolidated cash flow.
28 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 FinanceReview Figure2:Cashflow Year ended 31 December 2006 2005 m m Operating profit excluding joint ventures 87.9 62.4 Non cash items 35.0 45.2 Group EBITDA 122.9 107.6 Working capital movement 2.1 11.2 Group operating cash flow 120.8 96.4 Interest 10.6 15.7 Tax 6.7 1.0 Expenditure on tangible and intangible assets 47.7 31.6 Dividends from joint ventures 29.6 25.7 Group free cash flow 85.4 73.8 Cash received on sale of PFI investments 76.5 Cash disposed of and transaction costs on sale of PFIs 58.3 Acquisitions 281.7 Other financing 98.6 253.8  19.0 Dividends paid 14.5 12.5 Group net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 28.5 33.4 Adjustment to include joint venture cash impacts 10.3 4.1 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 18.2 37.5 Note: Group EBITDAisearnings from subsidiaries excluding joint ventures before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and other non cash items  The Group operating cash inflow was 120.8m 2005: 96.4m, an increase of 25.3%.
This  of Group EBITDAinto cash of 98% 2005: 90%.
This EBITDAconversion and working capital performance is particularly notable given the strong level of organic growth.
4.2Interest Net interest paid in 2006 was 10.6m, compared to 15.7m in 2005.
The decrease was principally due to the timing of the sale of the PFI investments.
4.3Tax Taxpaid in 2006, excluding joint ventures, was 6.7m compared to 1.0m in 2005.
This increase is primarily due to atax refund received in 2005.
Cash tax is below the equivalent tax charge in the income statement.
The difference reflects timing differences, including acontinued residual level of accelerated capital allowances, and the availability of tax relief on the special pension contribution.
  and intangible assets in the period was 47.7m 2005: 31.6m.
This represents 2.5% of revenue excluding joint ventures 2005: 1.8%.
The increase mainly resulted from expenditure on designing and building our new SAP accounting system and shared service centre.
The total cost of the initial programme is estimated to be approximately 35m, of which 20m was incurred in 2006 and 7m in 2005.
 Dividends received from joint ventures totalled 29.6m 2005: 25.7m, equivalent to 98% 2005: 101% of joint ventures profit after tax and minority interest.
The high level of conversion in both years reflects dividend payments made by joint ventures from reserves retained in previous years.
com 29 4.6Otherfinancing The movement in other financing is primarily as aresult of repayments on our loan facility.
Netdebt Sercos net debt has reduced significantlyduring 2006.
Group recourse net debt has decreased by 92.1m to 171.9m and total net debt has decreased by 389.3m to 205.9m.
Figure 3analyses Sercos net debt at 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005.
Figure3:Netdebt At 31 December 2006 2005 m m Group cash and cash equivalents 177.8 210.0 Group loans 334.4 453.1 Group obligations under financeleases 15.3 20.9 Group recourse net debt 171.9 264.0 Joint venturerecourse net cash 28.2 18.0 Total recourse net debt 143.7 246.0 Group non recourse debt 62.2 326.8 Joint venture non recourse debt 22.4 Total non recourse debt 62.2 349.2 Total net debt 205.9 595.2  Group recourse net debt reduced from 264.0m at 31 December 2005 to 171.9m at 31 December 2006.
Included within Group recourse net debt is 10.6m 2005: 22.7m of encumbered cash, comprising cash of PFI and other projectcompanies securing credit obligations and customer advance payments.
 The Group'sdebt is non recourse if no Group companyother than the relevant borrower such as  aPFI has an obligation to repay the debt under aguarantee or other arrangement.
The debt is excluded from all of our credit agreements and other covenant calculations, and therefore has no impact on the Groups ability to borrow.
Group non recourse debt reduced by 264.6m to 62.2m during the year, primarily as a result of the sale of the PFI investments see section 7.
At 31 December 2006, the remaining non recourse debt related to the Kilmarnock prison contract and our Driver Examination Services contract in Canada.
 The joint venture non recourse debt recorded in 2005 resulted from debt taken on in the course of operating acontract where we have aright of full cost reimbursement.
Adebtor equal to the value of this non recourse debt was included in Sercos accounts to reflect this.
During the first half of 2006, we renegotiated certain terms of this loan.
This allows us to offset the debtor and non recourse debt in our accounts, thereby reflecting the economic reality of the contract.
Pensions At 31 December 2006, the net liability included in the balance sheet arising from our defined benefit pension scheme obligations was 120.0m 2005: 149.9m.
30 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 FinanceReview Figure4: At 31 December 2006 2005 m m Group schemes non contract specific 157.8 200.4 Contract specific schemes reimbursable 67.6 84.9 not certain to be reimbursable 23.9 21.3 Net retirement benefit liabilities 249.3 306.6 Intangible assets arising from rights to operate franchises and contracts 20.6 19.0 Reimbursable rights debtor 67.6 84.9 Deferred tax assets 41.1 52.8 Net balance sheet liabilities 120.0 149.9 Serco has three main types of scheme which are accounted for as defined benefit pension schemes.
Each type has its own accounting treatment under IFRS.
These are: Schemes which do not relate to specific contracts or franchises non contract specific principally the Group scheme.
Forthese schemes, we charge the actuarial gain or loss for the period to the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense the SORIE, and Schemes where we have aright of full cost reimbursement and therefore include both the pension scheme deficit and offsetting reimbursable rights debtor in the balance sheet reimbursable, and Schemes relating to specific contracts or franchises, where the deficit will pass back to the customer or to the next contractor at the end of the contract not certain to be reimbursable.
Forthese schemes, we charge the actuarial gain or loss on our share of the deficit for the period to the SORIE, recognise arecoverable intangible asset on the balance sheet and amortise the intangible asset to the income statement over the contract or franchise life.
At 31 December 2006, the principal non contract specific scheme was the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS.
This scheme was closed to new members in 2001.
Prior to the special pension contributions at the end of the year, the scheme had agross deficit of 136m.
Following adetailed funding review in the second half of 2006, we have made aspecial cash contribution of 70m into the scheme.
Apayment of 19m was made in December 2006 and the remaining 51m was paid in January 2007.
We have agreed an increase in employer and employee contributions from January 2007.
Figure 5shows the sensitivity of the liabilities of our pension schemes to changes in discount rates and to adjustments in the actuarial assumptions for the rate of inflation, members salary increases and life expectancies.
Figure5: Change in assumption Change in liability Discount rate 0.5% 9 % 0.5 % 10% Price inflation 0.5% 7% 0.5 % 7% Salary 0.5% 3% 0.5 % 3 % Longevity Increase by one year 2.75% www.
 PFIs  On 2December 2006, Serco sold its equity investments relating to six PFI projects to 2 Infrastructure Investors Limited I.
As part of this transaction, we retained the long-term 2 operating contracts associated with the PFIs, and provide management services to I, such as acting as the day-to-day interface with the customer.
The investments were sold for atotal cash consideration of 76.5m, resulting in again on sale of 11.4m.
Net assets of 46.8m were disposed of, including cash of 56.6m, PFI debtors of 329.8m and non recourse loans of 242.3m.
The cash disposed of was held in the special purpose companies primarily to honour forthcoming debt repayments.
 At 31 December 2006, Serco continued to hold a100% equity investment in one PFI special purpose company and aminority shareholding in two others.
Serco retains operating contracts in eleven PFI projects.
We continue to recognise our remaining PFI debtors at amortised cost, as defined by IAS 39, maintaining an accounting treatment consistent with UK GAAP and existing IFRS.
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements has been issued but is not mandatory until 1January 2008.
We will review the impact of the IFRIC during 2007.
Provisions At 31 December 2006, the Group held provisions amounting to 22.3m 2005: 26.3m.
Provisions include amounts relating to long-term service awards, terminal gratuities, property, contracts and restructuring.
The decrease in provisions includes areduction as aresult of the completion of aplanned restructuring in Serco Solutions.
Treasury The Groups principal debt finance consists of a400m bank credit facility comprising a term loan facility and arevolving credit facility.
At31December 2006, we had 163m 2005: 279m outstanding on the term loans and the revolving facility was undrawn.
Interest is charged at arate of 50 basis points over LIBOR on borrowings under the facility.
The facility is unsecured and matures in December 2009.
Serco has also issued loan notes under two private placements.
The first private placement, for 43.2m, matures in December 2007 and the second, for 117.0m, amortises evenly from 2011 to 2015.
At 31 December 2006, Serco also had 62.2m 2005: 349.2m of non recourse debt that is used to fund remaining PFI and similar activities.
In all cases, no entity other than the relevant borrower has an obligation, as aresult of aguarantee or other arrangement, to repay non recourse debt.
32 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006   The Summary Financial Statement has Directors been producedtoallow readers of the The current members of the Board together  financial with biographical details of each Director affairs of Serco Group plc and its are set out on pages 42 to 43. subsidiaries theGroup, throughthe principal financial statements: without the On 3April 2006, Leonard V. Broese van need to refer to the more detailedAnnual Groenou was appointed to the Board as a Review and Accounts.
This Summary Non-Executive Director and Ralph Hodge Financial Statement is only asummary of retired as aNon-Executive Director at the the Annual Review and Accountswhich 2006 Annual General Meeting on contain the full annual accounts, other 5May 2006. statutory information and the full Directors Report.
AnnualGeneralMeeting Members who wish to receive the full The Annual General Meeting of the Annual Review and Accountsfor the year Company will be held at the Queen ended 31 December 2006 should write to Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London the Company Secretary at the Companys on 4May 2007 at 11.00am.
Alternatively acopy of the full Annual Review and Accountscan be The Notice convening the meeting includes downloaded from www.
an explanation of all the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The independent auditors report on the full Acopy can be downloaded from Annual Review and Accountsofthe Group www.
for the year ended 31 December 2006 is unqualified and does not contain any statement containing inadequate  accounting records or failure to obtain The Company has implemented across the necessary information or explanations.
Group policies on environmental, health and safety matters and operatesaCode of Corporate Responsibility and Business Ethics.
Activities Serco Group plc is aholding company Further information on environmental and which operates via its subsidiaries and joint employee health and safety matters is ventures to improve services by managing contained in the Corporate Responsibility people, processes, technology and assets Report which is also available online at more effectively.
governments, agencies and companies by offering operational, management and consulting expertise in the aerospace, Donations defence, education, health, home affairs, The Company continues to encourage all local government, science, technology, staff to participate in their local transport and the commercial sectors.
communities and has aprocess to capture community investment information on a worldwide basis.
This measure is based Dividends upon the Business in The Community An interim dividend of 1.05p 2005 0.91p BiTC reporting format.
The value of this per ordinary share was paid on 18 October investment at 942,340 2005: 1,017,129 2006.
The Directors recommend afinal represents 1% of the Groups pre tax profit dividend of 2.55p 2005 2.06p per excluding the gain on sale of PFI ordinary share, which if approved by investments, and represents a7.4% shareholders at the Annual General decrease on investment made in 2005.
Meeting, will be paid on 16 May 2007, to However, whilst the total for 2006 is less those shareholders on the register at the than 2005, the 2005 figure included a close of business on 9March 2007. corporate one-off donation for the Tsunami fund.
When this is taken out, the like for like www.
com 33 comparison shows a2.3% increase in Goingconcern investment in 2006 over the previous year.
The Directors confirm that they have a During the year neither the Company nor reasonable expectation that the Group has the Group made political donations and adequate resources to continue in this policy will continue.
operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Corporategovernance Annual Review and Accounts.
In managing the affairs of Group, the Board of Serco Group plc is committed to achieving high standards of corporate  governance, integrity and business ethics The Committee determines the overall for all its activities around the world.
remuneration policy for senior Afundamental part of the Groups management and the individual corporate governance processes is the remuneration packages of the Chairman Ethics and Business Conduct Policy that and the Executive Directors.
This includes the Company and Group have adopted to base salary, bonus, long-term incentives, support the highest standards of corporate pensions, benefits and terms of governance.
employment including those terms on which service may be terminated.
In 2006, Serco Group plc complied fully with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice as issued by the Financial  Reporting Council in 2003 and During 2005, the Committee carried out its superceded by the Combined Code on triennial comprehensivereview of executive Corporate Governance issued in remuneration to ensure that the Groups June 2006 the Code.
arrangements continue to be aligned with the business strategy and current best practice.
 To support the principles of good corporate As aresult of the review, changes were governance, the Board, the members of made to the remuneration package and which are shown on pages 42 and 43 is these were detailed in the 2005 Annual responsible for the overall management Review and Accounts.
The following and performance of the Group and the principles described below have been approval of its long-term objectives and adopted to determine the remuneration commercial strategy, and for ensuring that package of the Executive Directors.
The any necessary corrective action is taken remuneration should: promptly.
There are four regular Board Support Sercos business strategy meetings ayear held over two days and Align the financial interests of executives further meetings as needed.
and shareholders Provide market competitive reward The following are the main committees of opportunitiesfor performance in line with the Board: expectations, but have the potential to Audit deliver significant financial rewards for Remuneration sustained out-performance Nomination ReflectUKmarket norms Training and Development Besupported by aclear rationale which participants, shareholders and other stakeholders are able to understand.
The Audit and Remuneration committees consist wholly of independent The Committee believes that the existing Non-Executive Directors.
executive remuneration principles remain appropriate.
34 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006  Remunerationpackage the bonus allocation respectively.
Financial Composition measures are based on the Serco Group The currentremuneration packagefor resultsand the corporate measures are Executive Directors consists of base salary, team based.
The financial measures for annual bonus, long-term incentives, 2006 were based on turnover, Profit Before pensions and other benefits.
The Groups Taxand Amortisation PBTA and cash policy is to ensure that asignificant conversion.
These measures reflect the proportion of the package is performance growth and margin improvement strategies related, even at target levels.
of the business and are extremely stretching at the maximum end.
The 20% The relative proportions of performance allocated to corporate measures was split and non-performance related remuneration between performance on anumber of for an Executive Directors on-target strategically important projects.
remuneration are shown below: Based on the achievement of stretching turnover and PBTAgrowth of 12.7% and 22.6% respectively and achievement of the goals under the corporate objectives, a 36% bonus equal to 95% of base salary will be 46% paid for performance during 2006.
The bonus award is made on the salary at the time of the award.
Annual bonuses are not pensionable.
18% Deferred Bonus Scheme Forbonuses paid in respect to the 2003, Base salary 2004 and 2005 financial years, the annual bonus plan included the ability for the Performance-related annual bonus target Executive Directors to defer aportion of the bonus earned.
Participants could elect to Performance-related long-term defer, for three financial years, up to 100% incentives expected value of the bonus earned by purchasing shares in the Company pursuant to the terms of Deferred Bonus Scheme.
The shares Base salary purchased will be matched by the The Committees policy is to set the base Company if stretching performance targets salaries of the Executive Directors at the are met.
median of acomparator group of companies, which consists of 14 There is no further opportunity for the companies in the FTSE 250 Index of Executive Directors to defer bonuses paid broadly similar size and business fit.
in respect to the 2006 financial year Salaries are normally reviewed annually and onwards.
and the Committee takes note of relative pay and employment conditions within the  comparator group in determining salary Long-term share-based incentives are increases.
awarded to Executive Directors under the Serco Group plc 2006 Long Term Incentive Annual bonuses Plan and the Serco Group plc 2005 For2006, the annual bonuses for Executive Executive Option Plan.
Previous long-term Directors are calculated as follows: share incentives were granted under the Serco Group 2005 Long Term Incentive The threshold payment at 20% of Scheme and 1998 Executive Share Option base salary Scheme.
The various scheme and plan The target payment at 50% of base salary rules have all been approved by The maximum payment at 100% of shareholders at Annual GeneralMeetings.
base salary All grants and awards are made pursuant to the rules of the applicable plans and in The criteria for performance measurement accordance with the Model Code and comprise amix of financial and corporate policies in relation to the treatment of the measures that account for 80% and 20% of leavers have been adopted.
com 35 of the performance targets is undertaken Executive Option Plan by Ernst &Young in relation to the Long The Serco Group plc 2005 Executive Option Term Incentive Scheme and Executive Plan EOP was approved at the Annual Option Plan while Mercer undertake the General Meeting held in April 2005 as a measurement for the 2006 Long Term replacement for the Serco Group 1998 Incentive Plan.
The conditions relating to Executive Option Plan.
Since the approval of the schemes are detailed below.
the 2005 Plan no options have been granted under the 1998 Plan, which is now closed.
2006 Long Term Incentive Plan Shareholders approved the Serco Group Options granted under the EOP may be plc 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP at exercised after the third anniversary of the Annual General Meeting held in May grant, depending upon the achievement of 2006.
The LTIP awards granted to afinancial performance target over three Executive Directors are calculated at 100% years.
The options are granted at market of salary at the time of grant.
As the 2006 value and awards made to Executive plan was approved at the AGM and no Directors under the 1998 EOP are based awards had been granted under the Long on 100% of salary as at the 31 December Term Incentive Scheme LTIS in 2005, an prior to grant.
award of 100% of salary was made immediately and afurther award of 100% Forawards granted on or after 1January of salary was made at the normal annual 2003, achievement of the performance is award time in November.
Infuture years, measured by reference to the Companys the annual award limit will normally be EPS performance relative to RPI over the limited to 100% of salary.
The vesting of awards made during the The vesting of the grants is based on the 2006 will depend on the Groups TSR following schedule: measured relative to the top 250 Ifthe level of EPS growth is less than RPI companies in the FTSE 350 Index, as 5%per annum, none of the options ranked by market capitalisation, excluding may be exercised those in certain sectors which are not Ifthe level of EPS growth is equal to RPI comparable with the Group.
The proportion 5%per annum, 40% of the options of awards that vest will be determined by may be exercised the following schedule: Ifthe level of EPS growth is equal to RPI Nopart of the awards will vest if the 10% per annum, all of the options may Groups TSR is below the median of the be exercised comparator group For an EPS growth of between RPI 5% 30% of awards will vest for median and RPI 10% per annum, aproportion performance of the options between 40% and 100% 100% of awards will vest for upper may be exercised.
quartile performance Between median and upper quartile Foroption grants which completed their performance aproportion between 30% performance period on 31 December 2006, and 100% of the awards will vest pro rata the Groups EPS performance was 15.76% per annum over the three year performance 200% of awards will vest for top decile period which resulted in all options vesting.
performance The level at which maximum vesting would Between upper quartile and top decile, a occur was 13.37% per annum.
proportion between 100% and 200% will vest pro rata.
Long Term Incentive Scheme The Committee has discretion to vary the Prior to the approval of 2006 Long Term proportion of awards that vest if it Incentive Plan awards were granted under considers that the TSR performance does the Long Term Incentive Schemes LTIS.
not reflect the underlying financial Awards granted under the LTIS may be performance of the Group.
exercised after the third anniversary of grant once confirmation has been received There is no re-testing under the LTIP.
from the auditors regarding the achievement of the performance criteria.
36 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006   Serco operatesboth defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The Executive Directors participate in the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS.
This is afunded, defined benefit scheme, which provides for apension of two-thirds of pensionable salary following afull career.
The normal retirement age of Executive Directors is 60.
Kevin Beestons pension benefits accrued prior to 6April 2006 exceeded the new Lifetime Allowance, which came into force at that date, and he opted to cease paying contributionsand accruing benefits in the pension scheme after 6April 2006.
Since that time, he has been in receipt of acash allowance equal to 33% of his base salary in lieu of further pension provision.
As aresult of their joining the Group after 1989, Christopher Hyman and Andrew Jenner have been subject to the Earnings Cap on pensionable salary within the SPLAS.
The Group has provided defined contribution pension arrangements to supplement the SPLAS for Christopher Hyman and Andrew Jenner.
However these arrangements ceased during 2005 and were replaced by acash alternative until 6April 2006.
Pensions earned in the SPLAS for service after 6April 2006 are no longer subject to the earnings cap and accordingly the cash alternative ceased with effect from 6April 2006.
 The Groups policy is that the fees of Non-Executive Directors, which are determined by the Board, are set alevel which will attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make asubstantial contribution to the Groups affairs.
 Each Executive Director has arolling service contract with the Company and these service contracts will be available for inspection prior to the start and after the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The service contracts all have anotice period of 12 months.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts.
There have been no payments made during the year in relation to compensation for loss of office.
A summary of details relating to each Director who served during the year is provided below: Un-expired term and Date joined Date of Appointment notice period at Name of Director Company to the Board Date of Contract 31 December 2006 Executive Directors: Kevin Beeston 29 April 1985 29 February 1996 21 July 2003 Rolling contract with 12 months notice period Christopher Hyman 30 August 1994 1April 1999 21 July 2003 Rolling contract with 12 months notice period Andrew Jenner 4November 1996 3May 2002 21 July 2003 Rolling contract with 12 months notice period Date of Appointment to the Board Date Letter of Unexpired term and notice Appointment period at 31 December 2006 : Margaret Ford 8October 2003 7October 2003 33 months Leonard V. Broese van Groenou 3April 2006 20 February 2006 27 months DeAnne Julius 29 October 2001 29 October 2001 11 months David Richardson 2June 2003 29 May 2003 29 Months Note: Non-Executive Directors have athree-month notice period and no compensation or other benefits are payable on early termination.
com 37  The remuneration of the Directors for the year was as follows: Total estimated Total Total value of any remuneration remuneration other non-cash excluding excluding Note Remuneration Fees Bonus benefits Allowance pensions 2006 pensions 2005 Kevin Beeston 1,2, 3 510,000 503,500 63,419 125,969 1,202,888 704,814 Christopher Hyman 1,2 510,000 503,500 63,604 1,077,104 702,908 Andrew Jenner 1,2 309,000 310,650 63,697 683,347 501,713 LeonardV.
The bonuses shown include performance bonuses earned in the periodunderreview, but not paid in the financial year.
The value of the non-cash benefits relates to the provision of acar allowance and private healthcare.
The allowance comprises payments made to Kevin Beeston in lieu of pension, calculated as apercentage of base salary, from which he makes his own pension arrangements further details as set out in the section on Directors Pensions on page 40.
Leonard V. Broese van Groenou was appointed to the Board on 3April 2006.
Ralph Hodge retired from the Board on 5May 2006.
Total remuneration has increased during 2006 following on from the 2005 triennial review, which led to an increase in total remuneration packages for Executive Directors as the review established where packages were below the market median.
The strong financial performance of the Group during 2006 has led to bonuses paying out at close to the maximum level.
 The Directors interests in the shares of the Company were as follows: Ordinary Shares of 2p each fully paid at 1January 2006 or, Ordinary Shares of 2p if later, the date of each fully paid at Notes appointment as Director 31 December 2006 Kevin Beeston 1182,638 159,413 Leonard V. Broese van Groenou 2 1,935 Margaret Ford 6,983 6,983 Christopher Hyman 1116,598 134,885 Andrew Jenner 160,994 84,351 DeAnne Julius 15,000 15,000 DavidRichardson 10,000 10,000 Notes: 1.
21,557 of Kevin Beestons shares, 49,336 of Christopher Hymans and 29,378 of Andrew Jenners shares are all held in trust on their behalf under the terms of their participation in the Deferred Bonus Scheme.
Provided such shares remain in trust for three years they are also granted an award over additional shares dependant on the achievement of certain performance conditions as set out on page 39.
38 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006   i Serco Group plc Deferred Bonus Scheme The Scheme has now been closed and no further awards will be made under its terms.
Conditional rights to receive matchingshares over Serco Group plcs ordinaryshares under the Scheme held by Directors at 31 December2006 are as follows: Awards held at Performance period Vesting date 31 December 2006 Kevin Beeston 21,557 1Jan 2004 31Dec 2006 2March 2007 Christopher Hyman 21,557 1Jan 2004 31Dec 2006 2March 2007 10,030 1Jan 2005 31Dec 2007 9March 2008 17,749 1Jan 2006 31Dec 2008 22 March 2009 Andrew Jenner 12,711 1Jan 2004 31Dec 2006 2March 2007 6,018 1Jan 2005 31Dec 2007 9March 2008 10,649 1Jan 2006 31Dec 2008 22 March 2009 ii Serco Group plc 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan The conditional rights to Serco Group plc ordinary shares under the 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan held by Directors at 31 December 2006 were as follows: Market price Awards held Awards made on award at 31 during the year pence December 2006 Kevin Beeston 147,928 349.00 147,928 145,205 372.50 145,205 Christopher Hyman 147,928 349.00 147,928 145,205 372.50 145,205 Andrew Jenner 88,757 349.00 88,757 89,589 372.50 89,589 www.
com 39  continued iii Serco Group plc Long Term Incentive Scheme The LTIS has been superceded by the Serco Group plc 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan.
The last award to Executive Directors under the Scheme was made in June 2005.
Those shares that vested on 31 December 2006 had amarket price of 382 pence.
Awards Lapsed Vested held at 31 Awards held at during during the December 1January 2006 period period 2006 Kevin Beeston 608,273 81,822 276,609 526,451 Christopher Hyman 589,306 81,822 276,609 507,484 Andrew Jenner 292,413 49,093 167,219 243,320 iv Serco Group plc 1998 and 2005 Executive Option Plan Optionsover Serco Group plc ordinary shares grantedunder the 1998 Executive Share Option Plan and the 2005 Executive Share Option Plan and held by Executive Directors at 1January 2006 and 31 December 2006 were as follows: Awards held Granted Exercised Market price Exercise price Balance at as at during during on exercise of new options 31 December 1January 2006 period period date pence granted pence 2006 Kevin Beeston 1,137,536 147,492 -- 339 1,285,028 Christopher Hyman 1,016,607 147,492 -- 339 1,164,099 Andrew Jenner 544,586 88,495 12,708 318 339 620,373  The detailsofthe  by the Group are set out in note above.
In the event of death in service, each scheme provides for alump sum payment as well as adependants pension.
The accrued pension benefits of all Directors under the SPLAS, which is adefined benefit scheme, are as follows: Age Year of Pensionable Service Total accrued pension at year end Kevin Beeston 44 22 258,714 Christopher Hyman 43 13 41,868 Andrew Jenner 38 11 21,309 40 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006   Serco Group plc TSR vs FTSE 350 Total Return Index over five years Value of investment of 100 on 31 December 2001 160 140 Serco FTSE 350 Index 120 100 80 60 40 20 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 Serco Group plc TSR vs FTSE 350 Total Return Index over three years Value of Investment of 100 on 31 December 2003 250 Serco 225 FTSE 350 Index 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 In drawingthese graphs, ithas been assumedthat all dividends paid have been reinvested.
The TSR level shown at 31 December each year is the averageofthe closingdaily TSR levels for the 30-day period up to and including that date.
The Companys TSR is compared to that of the FTSE 350 Index, which is abroad equity market index in which it is aconstituent.
TSR is defined as the return shareholders would receive if they held anotional number of shares, and received dividends on those shares over aperiod of time.
It measures the percentage growth in the Companys share price together with the value of any dividends paid, assuming that the dividends are reinvested into the Companys shares.
com 41 Value of 100 invested Value of 100 invested From left to right: Mark Duckworth Acting Company Secretary 2006 Christopher Hyman ChiefExecutive DeAnne Julius, CBE Senior Independent Director David Richardson  Andrew Jenner Finance Director Leonard V. Broese van Groenou  Margaret, Baroness Ford of Cunninghame  Kevin Beeston Executive Chairman 42 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 DirectorsProfiles DirectorsProfiles KevinBeestonFCMA 44 ChristopherHymanCA SA 43 Executive Chairman Chief Executive Chair of the Nomination and Training and Development 3, 4 Committees Christopher was appointed Chief Executive of Serco Group plc in 2002.
He is also Non-Executive Director of United Business Kevin was appointed Executive Chairman of Serco Group plc in Media plc, the Prince of Wales charity In Kind Direct, Habitat May 2002, having previously served as the Groups Finance for Humanity and the Borneo Tropical Rainforest Foundation.
He has announced his intention He is also amember of the UK Governments Honours to move to Non-Executive Chairman of Serco in September Advisory Committee for Economy.
Aqualified accountant, Kevin joined Serco in 1985.
He is Natal University in Durban, South Africa and qualified as a amember of the CBI Presidents Committee and Chairman of chartered accountant, serving with Arthur Andersen and the CBIs Public Services Strategy Board, which promotes the Ernst &Young before joining Serco in 1994 as the European role business has in transforming the UKs public services.
Hewas appointed Group Company Secretary In addition, he holds Non-Executive Director positions on the in 1996, Corporate Finance Director in 1997 and Group Finance boards of IMI plc and Ipswich Town Football Club plc.
He is responsible for setting the vision and strategy of the Group.
BroesevanGroenou 60 1, 2, 3, 4 Non-Executive Director AndrewJennerACA 38 Finance Director Leonard joined Serco as aNon-Executive Director in April 2006.
Leonard was previously vice-president Human Resources and Andrew joined Serco in 1996 as Group Financial Controller, member of the corporate executive committee of Pennsylvaniahaving previously worked for Unilever and Deloitte &Touche LLP.
based Air Products, aNew York listed company serving He became Corporate Finance Director with additional customers in technology, energy, healthcare and industrial responsibility for Treasury activities in 1999 and Group Finance markets worldwide where he served for nearly 30 years.
Andrew shares responsibility for our His career at Air Products spans numerous international roles relationship with shareholders and the City with the other including financial control, business planning, operational Executive Directors.
He is also responsible for the Group's management and human resources.
Margaret,  49 DeAnneJuliusCBEPhD Econ 57 1, 2, 3, 4 Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director 1, 2, 3, 4 Chair of the Remuneration Committee DeAnne joined Serco as aNon-Executive Director in October Margaret joined Serco in October 2003 as aNon-Executive 2001.
She is Chairman of The Royal Institute of International Director.
She spent her early career in avariety of roles either in Affairs, was afounder member of the Bank of England the public sector or as an advisor to Government and is a Monetary Policy Committee 1997-2001 and also sat on the specialist in leadership development, culture change and public Court of the Bank of England until May 2004.
She has held sector reform.
From 1997 to 2000 she was the Chair of Lothian senior strategy positions with British Airways and Royal Dutch Health Board and from 2000 to 2003 was aNon-Executive Shell, and spent seven years with the World Bank developing Director of Ofgem.
From 2000 to 2005, Margaret was aDirector infrastructure projects in Asia and Africa.
She is aNonof Good Practice Limited, the publishing company that she Executive Director of BP PLC and Roche Holdings SA.
Margaret is the Chairman of English Partnerships, the national regeneration agency and in 2006 she was appointed  55 the Non-Executive Chairman of Pinnacle Staffing Group plc and Non-Executive Director 1, 2, 3, 4 of Irvine Bay Regeneration Company.
Margaret is also currently Chair of the Audit Committee aDirector of Scotlands Futures Forum Limited.
David joined Serco as aNon-Executive Director in June 2003.
He has previously held the position of Finance Director of Whitbread, where his roles in a20-year career have included eight years as Strategy Director.
David was instrumental in transforming Whitbread from abrewing and pubs company into amarket leader in hotels, restaurants and leisure clubs.
David is currently aNon-Executive Director of Dairy Crest Plc, Forth Ports Plc, The Restaurant Group plc and Tomkins plc.
1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee 4 Member of the Training and Development Committee www.
com 43   2006 2005 m m Continuing operations Revenue 2,548.2 2,260.3 Cost of sales 2,182.5 1,935.3 Gross profit 365.7 325.0 Administrative expenses 235.7 214.3 Other expenses amortisation of intangibles 16.2 13.6 Total administrative expenses 251.9 227.9 Gain on sale of PFI investments 11.4 Operating profit 125.2 97.1 Investment revenue 31.7 33.6 Finance costs 49.5 52.8 Profit before tax 107.4 77.9 Tax 27.9 23.5 Profit for the year 79.5 54.4 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 78.3 53.4 Minority interest 1.2 1.0 Earnings per share EPS Basic EPS 16.62p 11.66p DilutedEPS 16.43p 11.46p   2006 2005 m m Net actuarial gain loss on defined benefit pension schemes 78.9 58.4 Actuarial loss gain on reimbursable rights 53.4 35.6 Net exchange loss gain on translation of foreign operations 12.3 6.9 Fair value gain on cash flow hedges during the year 2.2 6.1 Tax charge credit on items taken directly to equity 7.0 2.0 Net income expense recognised directly in equity 8.4 7.8 Profit for the year 79.5 54.4 Total recognised income and expense for the year 87.9 46.6 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 87.1 45.6 Minority interest 0.8 1.0 44 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 FinancialStatements  At31December2006 2006 2005 m m Non-current assets Goodwill 528.5 544.5 Other intangible assets 126.1 107.8 Property, plant and equipment 93.6 103.0 Trade and other receivables 110.5 459.8 Deferred tax assets 73.7 91.2 932.4 1,306.3 Current assets Inventories 51.7 36.4 Trade and other receivables 463.3 528.8 Cash and cash equivalents 217.9 240.7 732.9 805.9 Total assets 1,665.3 2,112.2 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 541.9 531.1 Current tax liabilities 13.0 19.5 Obligations under finance leases 8.3 8.2 Loans 57.9 64.8 Financial instruments 10.6 4.9 631.7 628.5 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 10.4 5.0 Obligations under finance leases 11.5 18.2 Loans 346.1 744.7 Financial instruments 14.2 30.8 Retirement benefit obligations 249.3 306.6 Provisions 22.3 26.3 Deferred tax liabilities 19.9 92.1 673.7 1,223.7 Total liabilities 1,305.4 1,852.2 Net assets 359.9 260.0 Equity Sharecapital 9.5 9.4 Share premium account 283.5 269.5 Capital redemption reserve 0.1 0.1 Retained earnings 196.6 132.8 Retirement benefit obligations reserve 119.5 139.0 Share-based payment reserve 25.5 16.6 Own shares reserve 16.4 16.4 Hedging and translation reserve 21.3 15.1 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 358.0 257.9 Minority interest 1.9 2.1 Total equity 359.9 260.0 This Summary Financial Statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2007 and signed on its behalf by: Kevin Beeston Andrew Jenner Executive Chairman FinanceDirector www.
com 45   2006 2005 m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 159.5 140.8 Investing activities Interest received 32.4 32.8 Disposal of subsidiary and business undertakings 18.2 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.4 0.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 281.7 Purchase of other intangible assets 30.4 13.1 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 27.8 22.3 Net cash outflow from investing activities 6.2 283.9 Financing activities Interest paid 42.2 47.6 Dividendspaid 14.5 12.5 Dividend paid to minority interest 1.0 Repayment of borrowings 103.4 5.8 New loan advances 9.4 272.0 Capital element of finance lease repayments 8.6 8.4 Proceeds from issue of share capital 14.1 4.4 Decrease in non recourse loans 25.3 21.5 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 171.5 180.6 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 18.2 37.5 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 240.7 200.5 Net exchange loss gain 4.6 2.7 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 217.9 240.7 46 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006   to BasisofOpinion  We conducted our work in accordance with We have examined the summary financial bulletin 1999 6 The Auditors Statement on statement which comprises the summary the Summary Financial Statement issued consolidated income statement, summary by the Auditing Practices Board for use in consolidated statement of recognised the United Kingdom.
Our report on the income and expense, summary consolidated company's full annual financial statements balance sheet and the summary describes the basis of our audit opinions consolidated cash flow statement and the on those financial statements and the summary directors remuneration report.
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as abody, in Opinion accordance with section 251 of the In our opinion, the summary financial Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been statement is consistent with the full annual undertaken so that we might state to the accounts, the directors report and the Companys members those matters we are directors remuneration report of Serco required to state to them in an auditors Group plc for the year ended 31 December report and for no other purpose.
To the 2006 and complies with the applicable fullest extent permitted by law, wedonot requirements of section 251 of the accept or assume responsibility to anyone Companies Act 1985, and the regulations other than the Company and the made thereunder.
Companys members as abody, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Deloitte &Touche LLP  Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors andAuditors London The directors are responsible for preparing 28 February 2007 the summary financial statement in accordance with United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the summary financial statement as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
com 47  GroupWebsite  Go to www.
Administrative enquiries about the holding of To sign up for this service, you need to Serco Group plc shares and enquiries in register with Computershares Investor relation to the Serco Dividend Re-investment Centre service at: Plan DRIP should be directed to: www.
48 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006  ShareDealing We have arranged the following services that can be used to buy or sell Serco shares.
com 49 FinancialCalendar 2007 7March Ex-dividend date 9March Record date 24April Last date for receipt revocation of DRIP dividend mandates 4May Annual General Meeting 16May Final dividend pay date 30August Interim results announcement October Interim dividend pay date 50 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 www.
com 51 52 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Designed and printed by Turners.
