 The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors are also responsible for the the Annual Review and Accounts.
maintenance and integrity of the Groups The Directors are required to prepare website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom financial statements for the Group in governing the preparation and accordance with International Financial  statements may Reporting Standards IFRS, the differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4ofthe IAS Regulation.
They have elected to Approved by the Board of Directors and prepare financial statements for the signed on its behalf by: Company in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
IAS  Statements requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful Joanne Roberts representation of the effects of Secretary transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, Serco House income and expenses set out in the 16 Bartley Wood Business Park International Accounting Standards Boards Bartley Way Framework for the Preparation and Hook Presentation of Financial Statements.
Hampshire RG27 9UY In virtually all circumstances, afair presentation will be achieved by 28 February 2007 compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: Properly select and apply accounting policies Present information, including accounting policies, in amanner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information and Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of aDirectors Report and Directors Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
