Other information Information for shareholders Financial calendar and results announcements contact the registrars if you would like to have your Annual General Meeting dividends paid directly into your bank or building 25 July 2006, at 11.00am society account.
at the International Convention Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA The registrars contact details are: Telephone helpline: 0870 600 3967 Dividend payments in respect of the year ended E-mail: severntrent@lloydstsb-registrars.
co. uk 31 March 2006: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, Interim dividend paid 25 January 2006 West Sussex, BN99 6DA Proposed final dividend payable 2 August 2006 Online communication Shareview, is operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars and gives you access to services over the internet The results of the group will normally be that enable you to check details of your published at the following times: shareholding at any time.
Interim results for the six months to 30 September December You can also elect to receive communications Preliminary results for the year from the company electronically.
You will receive to 31 March June an e-mail notication when the Annual Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting become available Report and accounts for the year on our website.
to 31 March June You can register for both of these services at www.
Shareholder enquiries If you have a question about your shareholding in Company information the company you should contact our registrars, The companys website at www.
com Lloyds TSB Registrars, who are responsible for provides news and details of the companys making dividend payments and updating the activities, latest results, information on the share register of shareholders, including details of price and links to our businesses websites.
changes to addresses and names.
You should also Analysis of shareholdings at 31 March 2006 Number Number of % of of shares % Category shareholders shareholders millions of shares Individual and joint accounts 81,631 92.84 42.37 12.17 Other 6,292 7.16 305.72 87.83 Total 87,923 100.00 348.09 100.00 Number Number of % of of shares % Size of Holding shareholders shareholders millions of shares 1-499 52,844 60.10 10.32 2.97 500-999 20,194 22.97 13.79 3.96 1,000-4,999 13,498 15.35 21.15 6.08 5,000-9,999 475 0.54 3.11 0.89 10,000-49,999 432 0.49 9.84 2.82 50,000-99,999 140 0.16 9.85 2.83 Over 100,000 340 0.39 280.03 80.45 Total 87,923 100.00 348.09 100.00 Includes insurance companies, nominee companies, banks, pension funds, other corporate bodies, limited and public limited companies Cautionary statement This document contains certain forward looking statements with frameworks in which the group operates: the impact of legal or respect to Severn Trents financial condition, results of operations other proceedings against or which affect the group: and changes and business and certain of Severn Trents plans and objectives with in interest and exchange rates.
All written or verbal forward looking statements, made in this Forward looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identied document or made subsequently, which are attributable to Severn by their use of a date in the future or such words as anticipates, Trent or any other member of the group or persons acting on their aims, due, could, may, should, expects, believes, intends, behalf are expressly qualied in their entirety by the factors referred plans, targets, goal or estimates.
By their very nature forwardto above.
Severn Trent does not intend to update these forward looking statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative and looking statements.
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and This document is not an offer to sell, exchange or transfer any depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
securities of Severn Trent Plc or any of its subsidiaries and is not There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and soliciting an offer to purchase, exchange or transfer such securities developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any jurisdiction.
Securities may not be offered, sold or transferred by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption not limited to, changes in the economies and markets in which the from the registration requirements of the US Securities Act of 1933 group operates: changes in the regulatory and competition as amended.
116 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Contents Quick read Governance 1 Financial highlights 30 Board of directors Group financial highlights for 2005 06 Biographical details of the directors 2 At a glance 32 Directors report Overview and facts about our businesses 35 Corporate governance report Role of the board, board committees, Direction internal control and risk management 4 Chairmans statement Sir John Egan comments on Severn Trents 40 Directors remuneration report results, performance and outlook and Directors emoluments, pensions and corporate responsibility service agreements 6 Group Chief Executives review Group financial statements Strategic overview, Biffa demerger and operational performance 52 Independent auditors report 8 Business focuses 53 Consolidated income statement Focus, highlights and outlook for each of Severn Trents main businesses 54 Consolidated balance sheet Performance review 55 Consolidated cash ow statement 16 Water and Sewerage 56 Consolidated statement of recognised Performance information for Severn Trent income and expense Water in 2005 06, and progress on its Ofwat targets for 2005-10 57 Notes to the group financial statements 18 Waste Management Company financial statements Performance information for Biffa, a review of its market position and a summary of 102 Independent auditors report its Collection, Landll, Special Waste and Power Generation activities 103 Company balance sheet 20 Laboratories 104 Company statement of total recognised Performance information for STL in the US gains and losses and UK and overviews of market conditions, outlook and the businesses market strategies 105 Notes to the company financial statements 21 Water Purication and Operating Services Other information Performance information for Water 115 Five year summary Purication and Operating Services Comparisons on profit and loss, and an overview of its increasing net assets, dividends and share price presence in growth markets 116 Information for shareholders 22 Other Businesses Financial calendar, shareholder analysis Performance information for Severn Trents and company information systems and property businesses 23 Corporate responsibility Overview of our corporate responsibility programme, business ethics, environmental impacts and health and safety 26 Financial review Overview of Severn Trents results, financial position and cash ows This document is printed by CTD Sage Print on Mohawk Options 100% PC.
The paper is manufactured in accordance with FSC standards from 100% post-consumer recycled waste and is 100% process chlorine free.
Only wind energy is used during the papermaking.
Both the paper mill and printing involved in this production are environmentally accredited with ISO 14001.
Designed and produced by Tayburn.
2 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Severn Trent Plc Registered ofce: 2297 Coventry Road Birmingham B26 3PU Telephone: 44 0 121 722 4000 www.
com Registered number: 2366619 Severn Trent Plc Registered ofce: 2297 Coventry Road Birmingham B26 3PU Telephone: 44 0 121 722 4000 www.
com Registered number: 2366619 Contents Quick read Governance 1 Financial highlights 30 Board of directors Group financial highlights for 2005 06 32 Summary directors report 2 At a glance Overview and facts about our businesses 33 Summary directors remuneration report Direction Summary financial statement 4 Chairmans statement 37 Independent auditors report Sir John Egan comments on Severn Trents results, performance and outlook, and 38 Summary consolidated income statement corporate responsibility 39 Summary group balance sheet 6 Group Chief Executives review Strategic overview, Biffa demerger and 39 Summary group cash ow statement operational performance Other information 8 Business focuses 40 Information for shareholders Focus, highlights and outlook for each of Financial calendar, shareholder analysis Severn Trents main businesses and company information Performance review 16 Water and Sewerage Performance information for Severn Trent Water in 2005 06, and progress on its Ofwat targets for 2005-10 18 Waste Management Performance information for Biffa, a review of its market position, and a summary of its Collection, Landll, Special Waste and Power Generation activities 20 Laboratories Performance information for STL in the US and UK and overviews of market conditions, outlook and the businesses market strategies 21 Water Purication and Operating Services Performance information for Water Purication and Operating Services and an overview of its increasing presence in growth markets 22 Other Businesses Performance information for Severn Trents systems and property businesses 23 Corporate responsibility Overview of our corporate responsibility programme, business ethics, environmental impacts and health and safety 26 Financial review Overview of Severn Trents results, financial position and cash ows d Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Quick read Financial highlights Group turnover Group profit before tax up 13.9% to up 18.0% to 2,295.0m 270.0m 2005: 2,014.4m 2005: 228.8m Group profit Earnings per share up 39.5% to up 37.6% to 322.4m 77.2p 2005: 231.1m 2005: 56.1p before tax, exceptional items and IAS 39 fair value from continuing operations before exceptional items, adjustments see income statement IAS 39 fair value adjustments and deferred tax see note 13 Final dividend Encouraging group results 31.97p New strategy Dividend raised Total for the year 51.13p Intention to return capital Total shareholder return 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 31-03-01 31-03-02 31-03-03 31-03-04 31-03-05 31-03-06 Severn Trent Plc FTSE 100 Index This graph shows the value, at 31 March 2006, of 100 invested in Severn Trent on 31 March 2001 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 1 Value Quick read At a glance Group Severn Trent is a leading Turnover FTSE 100 water group, with 2,295.0m revenues of 2.3 billion.
16,312 employees We intend to create value through a strategy that will focus on water.
We intend to demerge Biffa by the end of October, increase gearing and return capital to shareholders.
By concentrating our efforts on raising standards, customers will receive the benets of reliable, high quality and cost effective services for clean water and sewerage.
You can nd out more about Severn Trent Plc and the businesses within our group at www.
com 2 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Quick read Water and Sewerage Waste Management Laboratories Water Purication and Operating Services Turnover Turnover Turnover Turnover 1,150.9m 712.3m 167.0m 267.8m 48.8% 30.2% 7.1% 11.4% of group turnover of group turnover of group turnover of group turnover 5,188 employees 5,552 employees 2,797 employees 2,425 employees Severn Trent Water provides Biffa is one of the largest Severn Trent Laboratories Water Purication and Operating water and sewerage services to integrated waste management provides environmental testing Services is one of the worlds around 3.7 million household companies in the UK.
It provides services in the UK and the US.
largest water and wastewater and business properties in collection, recycling, landll and From service centres and treatment companies.
hazardous waste services to laboratories across the US and operational efficiency and commercial, industrial and UK, it serves a client portfolio of investment in technology and local authority customers.
product development have delivered an excellent track record of organic growth.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Strong and sustained track Competitive advantage Market leaders in the US Strong market position and record in Ofwat efficiency and in commercial and and UK, with strong brand brand recognition performance assessments industrial collections recognition Strategy of focusing on high Drinking and wastewater Modern, specialist eet Reputation for technical margin business opportunities quality consistently above with high levels of fuel excellence and responsive Continually expanding average and operational efficiency customer service product and technology base Leadership role in its sector 35 landll sites throughout Record of innovation and Emphasis on cost control and and region on climate change the UK, all with ISO14001 being at the forefront of operational efficiency adaptation certication new markets, such as Strong product and Excellent record in Excellent special waste vapour intrusion technology base in growing biodiversity, community capabilities covering Good progress on major IT markets such as arsenic investment, and education.
hazardous and projects which will further removal and global metering non-hazardous waste.
and help us exploit scale.
For further information please visit For further information please visit For further information please visit For further information please visit www.
com before elimination of intra-group sales Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 3 Direction Chairmans statement We have unveiled a new comprehensive strategy Group results for the Severn Trent group of companies which Overall, the Severn Trent group has delivered will have at its heart a focus on water.
an encouraging performance in 2005 06, with group profit from continuing operations before Our UK integrated waste management business, tax, IAS 39 fair value adjustments and exceptional Biffa, is to be demerged from the Severn Trent group items at 322.4 million, an increase of 39.5% of companies, subject to shareholder approval.
and group profit from continuing operations before tax was 270.0 million 228.8 million, The board of Severn Trent Plc rmly believes an increase of 18%.
that the creation of two separate listed companies, Severn Trent Plc and Biffa Plc, each with dedicated The board is proposing a final dividend of boards and experienced management teams 31.97 pence 30.30 pence to be paid on focused on continued strategic and operational 2 August 2006.
This would give a total dividend development with access to their own capital, will for the year of 51.13 pence, an increase of 5.4%.
Sir John Egan deliver greater benets to shareholders, customers Chairman and employees.
Corporate responsibility Our ambition is to make Severn Trent the best Following the proposed demerger Severn Trent Plc water company in the UK and restore the trust is expected to remain the UKs second largest listed of our customers and Ofwat.
We are determined water company and a constituent of the FTSE 100, that the unacceptable mistakes of 2000-2004, continuing to focus on delivering investment however caused, will not be repeated.
programmes, improving efficiencies and customer service levels.
We have accepted the conclusions of Ofwats interim report concerning allegations of false reporting Our strategy also means that Severn Trent made against Severn Trent Water in 2004.
Laboratories US is no longer considered a core activity so we shall look to improve its Ofwats interim report found that we had business performance while we consider how to overcharged our customers during 2004 05 best realise its value for shareholders.
Severn Trent and had set prices too high for 2005 10.
Laboratories UK will remain in the group as it plays an important role working with Severn Trent Water.
Our internal investigations and Ofwats investigations have been thorough and lengthy, Our Water Purication and Operating Services requiring complex judgements.
Our judgements business, while a small proportion of the group, have not been identical to Ofwats in every aspect, is profitable and growing and has synergy with our but in the interests of making amends as soon as water business so will be allowed to develop under possible, we concluded it was sensible to proceed close management and tight budgetary control.
by agreement, and have apologised unreservedly.
Our new strategy also allows us to become more Having considered Ofwats findings, we agreed nancially efficient by increasing our debt to that customer accounts should be credited as regulated capital value ratio to 60% by 2010, soon as possible and bills altered appropriately the start of the next regulatory review period.
We also expect to return cash to shareholders, As the Ofwat report acknowledges, the board of the amount and timing of which is still to be Severn Trent Plc and the new senior management determined.
team started in 2004 to make major changes to organisation structure, to people and to processes Our Chief Executive, Colin Matthews, outlines in the and controls.
The intense drive to improve Severn next two pages the reasons behind our new strategy.
Trent Water will continue to be a top priority for its new Managing Director, Tony Wray, and his management team as well as for myself, Colin Matthews and the rest of the Severn Trent Plc board.
4 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Direction As a result of a referral by Ofwat, the Serious We also welcomed two new non-executive Fraud Ofce is undertaking a criminal investigation directors, Richard Davey and Bernard Bulkin, into alleged reporting irregularities made to Ofwat from January 2006. by Severn Trent Water between 2000 and 2003 concerning leakage.
Severn Trent is supporting Richard, a former Head of Investment Banking for Ofwat in its review of these allegations and will NM Rothschild & Sons, is a non-executive director co-operate fully with the Serious Fraud Ofce.
of Yorkshire Building Society and Amlin Plc.
He was appointed senior independent non-executive We acknowledge that Ofwat may expect further director and chairman of the Remuneration amends to be made to customers.
Ofwat has stated Committee with effect from 11 June 2006. that this penalty will be discussed with Severn Trent Water on completion of the Serious Fraud Bernard is chairman of AEA Technology Plc Ofce investigation into leakage.
and is a Commissioner on the UK Sustainable Development Commission.
He retired from The board has also provided Ofwat with an interim BP Plc as Chief Scientist in 2003. report into the misreporting of customer relations data over several years.
Fiona Smith joined as General Counsel and Company Secretary in February 2006, having been We will co-operate fully with Ofwat to restore General Counsel for Transport for London and confidence in Severn Trent Water going forward.
previously the National Grid Group.
She replaced Peter Davies who retired with our best wishes.
We have taken, and will continue to take, all actions we think appropriate to ensure the maintenance of We again carried out rigorous board effectiveness both high ethical and professional standards and reviews with the help of independent consultants, resilient and effective controls throughout all group which have generated a number of actions to companies.
secure improvements to board performance.
Board, management and staff I would also thank our dedicated and hard working John McAdam, a non-executive director, stepped staff whose commitment during a particularly down from the board in September 2005 after five intense year has ensured we continue to achieve years of valued service for which I thank him.
Derek Osborn, a non-executive director, retired Outlook from the board in March 2006, after seven years Our objective over the next four years is to ensure of valuable contributions, particularly concerning customers in our water businesses get the benets environmental issues and I wish him well.
of high quality and cost effective services while ensuring investors receive an appropriate return.
Martin Flower, senior independent non-executive director and Deputy Chairman, stood down from We believe that the newly focused water group the board in June after ten years service.
I am will be able to pay a progressive dividend as a extremely grateful for his support, particularly in consequence.
ensuring continuity on the board and support for our new management team.
Our dividend policy will therefore be to increase dividends by 3% above RPI ination until 2010.
Mark Wilson, Group Finance Director, stood down from the board in December 2005 after ten years at the heart of three regulatory reviews.
I am grateful to Mark for his contribution to the groups success.
Marks successor as Group Finance Director, Mike McKeon, joined us in December 2005.
Formerly Group Finance Director of Novar Plc, the building materials group, Mike worked with Rolls Royce Plc and has had extensive international business experience for CarnaudMetalbox, Elf Atochem and Price Waterhouse.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 5 Direction Group Chief Executives review Strategic overview Other businesses When I took over as Group Chief Executive in US Laboratories is no longer regarded as being February 2005 I said I would concentrate on a core business for the future.
US Laboratories operational improvements for all our businesses, is a strong, market leading company engaged in but particularly Severn Trent Water and Biffa as environmental testing.
The long term prospects for they account for some 96% of group profit.
market growth are good, although the last 2 years have been challenging.
We are confident that the Since then my new team and I have undertaken rm actions already in hand will lead to a recovery the most detailed examination of all aspects of in margins, and as we see these results being our activities to understand the business drivers achieved we will consider the appropriate actions so we can be certain of the foundations of our to realise shareholder value.
The group announced on 12 May that Biffa Belgium Focus on water has been sold to Veolia for 45 million.
Completion Colin Matthews Severn Trent Water is one of the countrys largest of this sale is expected by the end of June and is Group Chief Executive water and sewerage companies.
The company subject to Belgian competition clearance.
has great experience and strengths, along with important plans for improvement.
By concentrating Certain other smaller activities have either our efforts on raising standards across the entire already been closed to new business Haswell, business, customers will receive the benets of sold Aseriti or are being prepared for sale reliable, high quality and cost effective services Severn Trent Property.
for clean water and sewerage.
Being closely associated with water, UK Laboratories In addition these strategic changes, particularly and Water Purication and Operating Services will the demerger of Biffa, will support a more efficient remain part of the group.
Together these business balance sheet allowing a return of capital to account for some 3% of group profit.
We intend to increase group debt to 60% of regulated capital value as soon as Severn Trent post demerger practicable after the demerger.
The amount, After the demerger Severn Trent will be a focused mechanism and timing of any returns will be water group, generating more than 95% of group communicated in due course and will depend on profits, compared with less than 80% today.
future decisions around the debt structure of the demerged Biffa, pension fund contributions and It will be the second largest listed UK player in the final costs of the demerger.
water industry whose investment prole will generate expectations of growth and attractive returns.
Moreover, these improvements should lead to strong financial returns.
We believe the group will be able Severn Trent management will be able to focus on to deliver enhanced growth in dividends, and our the regulated water and sewerage business.
new policy will therefore be to increase dividends by 3% above RPI ination through the remainder There will still be other businesses in the group which of the current AMP4 period, that is until 2010. do have synergies with our core water operations.
Biffa We shall keep Severn Trent Laboratories UK.
There The most significant transaction required to achieve are few competitors capable of supplying Severn this group transformation is the demerger of Biffa, Trent Water with the necessary high quality testing which was separately announced on 4 April 2006. service so it is felt appropriate to retain the business.
Biffa is itself a leading business in an attractive market, and we believe that greater shareholder Our Water Purication and Operating Services value will be realised by the creation of a separately business, which includes a UK contract for managing listed company, focusing all its attention on Ministry of Defence sites, is profitable, growing and developing the waste management business.
improving, and has significant synergy with the water business and, as it is relatively small, it will In 2005 06, organic growth within Biffa has been not distract management from a focus on water.
re-ignited and we believe the prospects for the business are strong.
We have recently announced The creation of a new strategy will allow us to Bob Davies as the new chairman for Biffa and we increase our gearing to a more nancially efficient expect the demerger to be completed by the end of level while still remaining prudent with an eye on October 2006.
We will provide further details in regulatory developments into the next AMP period due course.
6 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Direction Health and safety Biffa has a sustainable strong position within the I deeply regret to report two fatalities: a Biffa waste industry.
We shall use our scale in Collection contractor was hit by a Biffa vehicle and a Biffa to deliver improving service and efficiencies.
We employee was struck by a car.
Biffa management can develop recycling opportunities as the market has implemented the most rigorous investigation evolves while carefully managing our pricing and across all its operations as a result, with an capacity in Landll.
independent audit, and has made significant changes to reduce the possibility of such Having spent more time in Biffa than when I first incidents happening again.
reported last year, I am convinced that there is a great opportunity to bring about the same process Overall the Severn Trent group reported a 27.5% improvement revolution that worked through reduction in the RIDDOR reportable incident rate factory environments over recent decades and is per 1,000 employees.
Not only is safety important in its own right but it Laboratories is also important as a broad indication of quality Severn Trent Laboratories provides environmental across the group.
We will continue to concentrate testing services in the US and the UK.
In the US, heavily on improving our safety performance.
market conditions were challenging in 2005 06.
Federal funding for environmental projects Water and Sewerage continued to be impacted by the diversion of funds In 2005 06 Severn Trent Water began the first to military activities in Iraq and to hurricane relief.
year of the AMP4 contract, which covers the period 2005-10.
Ofwat has set us exacting efficiency In the UK, market conditions were more favourable, targets for this period, and during the year we with legislation like the Landll Directive creating began to implement the organisational changes new business opportunities.
Water Purication and Operating Services Progress was good.
We reduced employee numbers: The business produced good results in 2005 06, removed management layers in order to improve increasing turnover and profits.
We maintained our information ow: reviewed and consolidated ofce strategy of concentrating on higher margin business accommodation in order to control overheads: and and growth markets.
began a programme to streamline our procurement process.
Environment I am pleased that the groups climate change We aimed to meet the Ofwat determination overall, programme has continued to develop over the getting our costs down to the Ofwat prole in two last 12 months.
We have continued to expand years.
Excluding energy costs we have done rather renewable energy generation within both Severn better than that.
However, the current outlook for Trent Water and Biffa and in July 2005, working energy has more than offset that advantage.
We will with the Carbon Trust, we published a Carbon be striving to get back in line with the Ofwat prole.
Management Report which investigated the long term challenges and opportunities that Capital expenditure is more positive.
Capex and climate change presents for the UK water infrastructure renewals amounted to 434 million.
Adjusting for changes agreed with Ofwat, and timing differences, we have generated Outlook approximately 6% efficiency over and above the Performance at Severn Trent Water has been determination.
We plan to maintain similar outgood in the first year of AMP4, with operating performance over the rest of AMP4.
costs reduced to within 4 million of the Ofwat determination.
The outlook for the coming year is Waste Management for continuing progress in meeting and improving Biffa worked in 2005 06 on a major review of how on the AMP4 contract for operating costs across the UK waste market is developing and Biffas most areas of performance, with an additional position within it, as part of the demerger preparation.
5 million to 10 million of savings identied.
We have a competitive advantage in the industrial However, the industry faces a significant challenge and commercial collection market, a good position with rising energy prices.
At present, the outlook in landll, and excellent special waste capabilities for energy prices in 2006 07 mean that increased through our treatment centres.
Biffa has the costs in this area are expected to impact Severn potential to develop recycling revenues signicantly.
Trent Water by around 25 million.
In relation to capital expenditure, we aim to maintain around Biffa enjoys a leading position in a dynamic market 6% efficiency out performance over the remaining place.
I suggested a target of 8% for renewed AMP4 period.
organic growth six months ago, I am pleased that the result, 11%, comfortably beats that.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 7 Direction Water and Sewerage Severn Trent Water Focus 2005 06 was the first year of the AMP4 contract.
We began work to deliver our five year 2.6 billion capital investment programme, to maintain and improve water supply and quality, sewage treatment and to meet our other regulatory targets for 2005-10.
8 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Direction Laying the groundwork to improve efficiencies and make investments necessary to achieve ambitious targets Highlights Outlook Turnover up 13.4% to 1,150.9 million After good progress on the first year of the AMP4 programme, we are on track to meet We implemented organisational changes that our regulatory obligations for 2005-10. will cut overheads and increase efficiency The organisational changes, cost controls We appeared in the top category in the and improved procurement procedures we DWIs water quality tables for the eighth introduced during 2005 06 will help us deliver successive year those obligations and achieve our targets.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 9 Direction Waste Management Biffa Strength and scale to take advantage of emerging opportunities in a growing marketplace Focus Biffa undertook a major review of the UK market and its market position in 2005 06.
This confirmed its strengths in commercial industrial collection, landll, and special waste treatment.
It also showed good scope for developing recycling revenues.
10 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Direction Highlights Outlook Turnover up 13.2% to 712.3 million Severn Trent Plc announced its intention to demerge Biffa in 2006.
A dedicated board and New national accounts in Collection access to its own capital will provide Biffa with with well known brands and chains a strong platform for maintaining its record of Rising unit revenues in Landll solid organic growth and serving customers.
Increased renewable energy generation capacity Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 11 Direction Laboratories STL Developing a competitive edge and improving standards for a challenging environment Focus Highlights Severn Trent Laboratories continued to focus on Turnover up 7.7% to 32.3 million service standards, cost controls and operating in the UK business efficiency in 2005 06 in the US and the UK.
Strong activity in air testing in the US We also continued to seek out and maximise and contaminated soils testing in the UK new opportunities and markets in New laboratory project in Ecuador and an environmental testing.
acquisition in New Orleans in 2005 06 12 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Direction Outlook Good market conditions in the UK look likely to continue, and we expect growth in some market sectors in the US.
Severn Trent Laboratories reputation for service and innovation should help it compete strongly in those areas.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 13 Direction Water Purication and Operating Services Focus Both divisions of the Water Purication and Operating Services business have produced good results in 2005 06.
Strong market position and brand recognition combined with an emphasis on cost control and operational efficiency puts the business at the forefront of emerging markets.
Delivering good results with a clear focus on higher margin business in growth markets 14 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Direction Highlights Outlook Turnover up 28.7% to 267.8 million There are good growth prospects across the Water Purication and Operating Services Large contracts in the Middle East to supply business.
Positive market conditions are domestic water meters expected to continue and we believe we have 2005 06 was the first year of the 25 year, the reputation, expertise and technology base 1 billion PFI contract with the UKs Ministry to capitalise on those opportunities.
of Defence Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 15 Performance review Review of operations Water and Sewerage profit before interest, tax and exceptional items Performance was up 30.2% to 400.4 million.
This was after 2006 2005 a provision for 10.6 million, the expected cost m m % relating to 2005 06 and prior years of the Turnover 1,150.9 1,015.1 13.4 agreement made with Ofwat to credit each profit 400.4 307.5 30.2 customer account during 2006 07, following the regulators interim report of 7 March 2006.
Before interest, tax and exceptional items see note 4 Improving the efficiency of the business In 2005 06 Severn Trent Water began the first year of the AMP4 contract, which covers the Tony Wray period 2005-10.
Health and safety Managing Director, Severn Trent Water Ofwat has set us exacting efficiency targets for 23% improvement in RIDDOR this period, and during the year we began to reportable injuries implement the organisational changes necessary to achieve them.
We reduced employee numbers: 2004 05 47 removed management layers in order to improve information ow: reviewed and consolidated ofce RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous accommodation in order to control overheads: and Occurrences Regulations began a programme to streamline our procurement processes.
The last of those measures involves establishing long term relationships with a reduced number of suppliers, incentivising them to make Water quality continuous improvements, and standardising designs where possible.
Overall compliance with We also carried out two major in-sourcing projects.
drinking water quality 99.96% At the end of 2004 05, Severn Trent Plc announced that the Haswell engineering consultancy business 2004 05 99.94% would cease bidding for external work, and engineers working on our AMP4 programme would be absorbed into Severn Trent Water.
In addition, some 270 staff from Aseriti transferred to Severn Severn Trent Water met its financial targets for Trent Water, bringing our IT systems activities inthe year 2005 06.
In both cases, the transitions progressed to 1,150.9 million.
The allowed increase in charges smoothly, and we are seeing benets from bringing for 2005 06, including ination, was 15.2%.
engineering and IT expertise back into the business.
In reviewing our prices, Ofwat takes account of: Working towards AMP4 targets Our contract for 2005-10 includes a capital The need to maintain existing standards investment programme of approximately of our products and services 2.6 billion.
This includes: Our levels of compliance with standards achieved over the last five years more than 400 million on maintaining The need to secure our water resources in water supplies the event of prolonged dry weather conditions 150 million on improving drinking Areas of concern identied by customers water quality as being of highest priority around 850 million on maintaining and All new legislation affecting drinking water improving river quality and environmental improvements more than 350 million improving sewers The need to provide a reasonable return and dealing with sewer ooding for our investors The affordability of our proposed plans Our focus in the first year was to implement the new procurement and supply chain processes that we will use in the programme, and to mobilise the 900 projects that we are due to manage.
Net capital expenditure, excluding spending on infrastructure maintenance, was 305 million for the year.
16 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Performance review The one area of the AMP4 contract where our In 2005 06 we continued to implement our new Severn Trent Water 2005 06 results were disappointing was leakage.
customer service technologies: the TARGET billing management have The dry summer of 2005 contributed to this system and ICE Improving Customer Experience.
focused on improving performance, causing higher than average levels of The roll-out of the systems coincided with the price quality of operations burst pipes.
Reported actual leakage has increased rises introduced at the start of the AMP4 period, by approximately 17 Megalitres per day, 3% and this increased the levels of customer contacts and strengthening and greater than 2004 05.
We have now increased the and complaints we received.
This proved streamlining internal resources dedicated to detection and reduction of challenging at times, but we did succeed in controls leakage, and we believe that, by the end of the transferring all our customers to the new system AMP4 period, we can reduce our leakage gures to and we are satisfied that it is serving them well.
below the target level set by Ofwat.
In March 2006, the Ofwat interim report into We own and operate over 1,000 sewage treatment allegations of false reporting found that we had works treating the wastewater from the equivalent overcharged our customers during 2004 05 and of over 10 million people.
The discharges from all had set prices too high for 2005-10.
Immediately except the very smallest of these works are the following the report, we apologised unreservedly to subject of stringent quality testing.
We have agreed with Ofwat a 99.86% of those works complied with the important mechanism for rebating them, and we had already regulatory sanitary standards.
This is, and has voluntarily proposed to raise prices by 7 million always been, at or close to the best level of less than allowed under the 2006 07 price limits.
Ofwat measures the service that we provide to Serving our customers customers by a series of indicators known as DG2 Customers views gathered in market research have to DG9.
These cover: water supply pressure, been used extensively in the development of our interruptions and restrictions: sewer ooding strategy.
This research has been in place for over a problems: speed of response to three types of decade and includes regular tracking of customers contact with customers: and the proportion of attitudes and opinions every six months.
metered customers who receive a bill based on an actual meter reading.
Further details, along with the Our customers tell us that their top priority is the levels of service for the water industry can be found safety and reliability of their drinking water.
In July in the Ofwat annual report on www.
2005, the Drinking Water Inspectorates DWI league table on water quality again showed that At the end of February 2006, we also began an Severn Trent Water is achieving a quality level above investigation into misreporting of customer the industry average.
This is the eighth successive relations data to Ofwat.
The data concerns the year that we have appeared in the top category.
handling of customer billing queries and telephone The DWI also praised the accessibility of water contacts over several years.
We have kept Ofwat quality information on Severn Trent Waters website.
fully informed on the progress of the investigation.
Despite a dry summer, we maintained water supply Corporate responsibility to our customers across the whole of our region, There is a strong focus on corporate responsibility and did not need to impose hosepipe bans.
Water CR in Severn Trent Water, and the tangible levels in our reservoirs were good at the year-end.
results of this in 2005 06 included energy We continued to promote water efficiency among management and generation programmes: domestic and business customers.
Since evidence support for community and education projects: suggests that dry years are likely to become more progress on our Biodiversity Action Plan: and frequent, our AMP4 programme includes measures improvements to our health and safety performance.
to improve security of water supply, and to make sure that we have sufficient water resources to More details on Severn Trent Waters CR programme meet customers future needs.
can be found in the corporate responsibility section of this report.
We also understand that customers feel that improvements to drainage, in order to prevent Outlook ooding of properties by our sewers, are important.
In 2005 06 Severn Trent Water made a good start Our commitment for the AMP4 period is to achieve to AMP4.
Although it is too early, after just one year a net reduction of 158 in the number of properties of the five year period, to forecast our eventual at risk of ooding from our sewers more than performance on the contract, we are confident once in ten years.
Our programme of works about our ability to control operating costs and to permanently reduce the risk of internal deliver our five year capital programme.
We believe and external ooding will benefit an estimated we are on track to deliver the AMP programme and 1,300 properties.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 17 Performance review Review of operations Waste Management There were new contract wins in the municipal Performance sector too.
Biffa won a recycling contract 2006 2005 for 56,000 properties in Bridgend, Wales: and m m % a three year contract with Vale of Glamorgan, Turnover 712.3 629.5 13.2 covering the managing and processing of profit 89.2 78.9 13.1 recyclable materials and servicing bring banks.
Biffas contract with South Staffordshire was extended for a further six years.
Before interest and tax Biffa worked with its local authority customers to help them meet their targets on value, efficiency Martin Bettington and recycling.
For example, in Burnley, Mole Valley, Power generation Managing Director, Biffa South Shropshire, South Staffordshire and Woking, this took the form of introducing alternative weekly Turnover up 32.2% and fortnightly collections incorporating green to 18.9 million waste and dry waste collection services.
Gross turnover in the Collection division was 429.0 million, up 14.8%.
profit before interest Biffa had another year of good organic growth in and tax was 60.1 million, up 16.5%.
Turnover in the UK was 712.3 million, and commercial margins remained rm, and up 13.2%.
absorbed cost increases arising from the Road Transport Directive, which came into force in 2005.
In the UK, profit before interest, tax and This restricted the number of hours that drivers exceptional items was 13.1% higher than can work, and led us to renegotiate pay structures 2004 05, at 89.2 million.
Collection Landll Biffa has one of the largest waste collection Government targets on diversion from landll are networks in the UK, with over 65 depots and more reducing the amount of waste going to landll, than 1,600 vehicles.
We collect 3.5 million tonnes and landll volumes were down 8.2% in 2005 06. of waste each year from about 80,000 industrial However, unit revenues from landll rose, with the and commercial customers and from over 1 million result that turnover in the Landll division was up households, which include two fully integrated 14.3% to 302.8 million.
profit before interest and waste management contracts under the Private tax was up 2.8% to 40.8 million.
Finance Initiative with Isle of Wight and Leicester City Councils.
The Landll division continued to take advantage of new market opportunities in 2005 06.
In 2004 05 The industrial and commercial collection business Biffa formed a strategic alliance with Biogenie Site grew strongly in 2005 06, and the division secured Remediation to remove and treat contaminated soil a number of new national accounts across various from browneld construction sites.
Following that market sectors including retail, leisure and finance.
alliance, we opened our first soil facility at Risley, New accounts included well known high-street Warrington in November 2005, and we plan to open names such as Sainsburys, DSG International plc two further facilities in the south-east of England.
Currys, PC World, The Link and Dixons and Boots.
Initial tonnages at Risley were encouraging.
Our ability to provide nationwide coverage and In addition, during 2005 06 Biffas composting bespoke recycling services was instrumental in sites accepted approximately 47,000 tonnes of several of these contract wins.
Biffa won its first significant landll contract in Northern Ireland in early 2006.
The new Cottonmount II landll site will receive over 700,000 tonnes of waste over an initial 29 month period from the Arc21 partnership, a group of 11 Northern Irish councils.
We also won a four year disposal contract with Warwickshire County Council.
18 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Performance review Special Waste As in 2004 05, we have continued to run a Biffa is well positioned Biffas Special Waste division provides a range of company wide health and safety culture change in the largest and services and technologies for managing hazardous programme, involving all employees.
The most attractive market waste streams.
importance of health and safety initiatives was segments recognised with the introduction this year of the One of the biggest changes affecting the Special Biffa health and safety awards scheme, which Waste division in 2005 06 was the entry into force acknowledged employees contributions to making of the EU Hazardous Waste Regulations in July 2005. their working environment a safer place.
We have As a result of the legislation, many companies had also improved communication of health and safety to register as hazardous waste producers for the issues including the distribution of several new first time, and our Special Waste division set up a videos and DVDs covering alcohol and drugs misuse helpline and registration service to assist them.
awareness, manual handling and employees talking about the effect an incident has made on their lives.
Turnover in Special Waste was up 5.1% in 2005 06, to 49.2 million.
profit before interest and tax was Several Biffa employees were also recognised 1.9 million, up 18.8%.
through the group Health and Safety Champions Awards, with a Biffa employee winning the Overall Power Generation Champion award.
His idea for developing a simpler Gross turnover from power generation was up and safer operating technique has been applied 32.2% to 18.9 million and profit before interest across the business.
More details on Biffas CR programme can be found The division, which uses landll gas to generate in the corporate responsibility section of this report.
electricity, is a significant provider of renewable energy in the UK.
During 2005 06 we added new Outlook power generation capacity at a number of sites, At the end of the 2005 06 financial year, the board bringing total generation capacity up to 108MW, of Severn Trent Plc announced its intention to compared with 101MW at March 2005. demerge Biffa in the UK by the end of 2006.
This was based on the belief that the creation of a Belgium separately listed company, Biffa Plc, would deliver On 12 May 2006 the group agreed to sell Biffa greater benets to shareholders, customers and Belgium to Veolia for 45 million.
is conditional upon clearance from the Belgian competition authorities and is expected to Biffa will continue to guide our customers through complete before the end of June 2006. the requirements of new EU and UK legislation.
As one of the UKs leading waste management Biffa Belgium has been classied as a discontinued businesses, we will also continue to benefit from operation.
Its turnover in 2005 06 was 58.4 scale and development opportunities.
million 66.7 million and its loss before interest and tax was 4.1 million profit 3.3 million.
During 2005 06 the business undertook a major review of how the UK waste market is developing Corporate responsibility and Biffas position within it.
The review indicated I deeply regret to report two fatalities: a Biffa that we have a competitive advantage in the contractor was hit by a Biffa vehicle and in a industrial and commercial collection market, a separate incident a Biffa employee died after good position in landll, and excellent special waste being struck by a car.
We have implemented capabilities through our treatment centres.
It also the most rigorous investigations and made showed that Biffa can develop recycling revenues significant changes to reduce the possibility signicantly.
of such incidents happening again.
Our strengths in collection, landll and special An awareness of Biffas duty towards the waste are a strong basis for delivering our strategy environment, our workforce and the communities of organic growth, both before and after the around our sites is embedded in our operations demerger.
Evidence of that awareness in 2005 06 included renewable energy generation activities: an energy efficiency programme in eet: and community and education activities.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 19 Performance review Review of operations Laboratories US markets Performance Whilst the general market picture in the US is 2006 2005 challenging, specic areas remain vibrant.
There m m % is strong activity in the air testing market, and, Turnover 167.0 162.6 2.7 within that, there are good opportunities in profit 11.1 15.2 27.0 vapour intrusion testing.
There are also good growth prospects in sediment testing related to harbour port clean-up and transportation Before interest and tax infrastructure.
In 2005 06 STL started work on a large $2.5 million sediment testing project on the New Orleans Harbour, and though work on this was Rachel Brydon Jannetta In 2005 06, market conditions in the US were interrupted by Hurricane Katrina, it is expected to President and CEO, STL very difficult for Severn Trent Laboratories STL.
Federal funding for environmental projects was impacted by the continued rise in the federal The New Orleans Harbour project was not the only significant progress on deficit as well as the diversion of funds to aspect of STL work affected by the severe hurricane laboratory IT systems military activities outside of the US, whilst the season of 2005.
STL has six laboratories within the standardisation worst hurricane season on record took STLs hurricane belt of the southern US, and all environmental consulting clients away from their experienced problems related to hurricane activity normal scope of work to engage in hurricane such as disruptions to power supply and reduced relief and repair efforts.
These factors led to serious sample collection and delivery activity.
However, price erosion which impacted profit margins.
following the experience of the previous year, STL had contingency plans in place, and these did help In the UK, market conditions were more favourable, to address the impact of the hurricanes on STL exemplied by the Landll Directive legislation business activities.
which created new business opportunities.
STL also decided to expand its base in New Around 81% of Severn Trent Laboratories turnover Orleans, by acquiring the business of derives from the US, so the 2005 06 results were Environmental Analytical Services Inc.
This facility affected by the challenging market conditions will enable STL to better support clients affected by described above.
Turnover in the US increased by last years hurricanes in the gulf coast region.
1.6% to 134.7 million, and profit before interest and tax was down 43.3% to 5.9 million.
In the UK market conditions were more favourable.
Turnover was up by 7.7% to 32.3 million and profit Market strategy before interest and tax was up 8.3% to 5.2 million.
In the US STL continues to pursue a long term The UK business is strongly focused on the testing strategy centred around service excellence.
Coupled of samples from UK water clients including Severn with tight cost controls and continued operating Trent Water but STL also saw strong demand for efficiency improvements, STL will work to rebuild contaminated soils testing, arising from the the margin shortfall.
A programme of cost provisions of the Landll Directive.
STL created a reductions took place in 2005 06 and this will dedicated Waste Acceptance Criteria laboratory at benefit performance in 2006 07 and beyond.
This helps waste producers comply with the UKs Waste Acceptance Criteria, STL continued to implement a new Information which also arise from the Landll Directive.
Management System in the US, which will bring all locations onto a single IT platform.
This will help Outlook exploit STLs unmatched scale in the US market, We do not expect any major increase in US federal further improve service by reducing project turnenvironmental budgets in 2006 07, nor do we around times, and improve the delivery of complex expect significant growth in sectors that are driven electronic data.
The system has been rolled out to by regulation.
However, we have positive more than half of the US laboratories.
expectations about continuing growth in certain segments of the market including air testing and In 2005 STL set up a new laboratory for a major vapour intrusion, as well as testing for sediments US client in Ecuador.
This facility will enable STL to and endocrine disrupters.
We also have positive address local testing needs, and also gives STL the expectations for continued growth in the sale of potential to expand activities in South America if groundwater sampling equipment and remediation suitable opportunities are identied.
pumps through STLs US subsidiary QED Environmental Systems and expect strong market conditions in the UK soils testing market to continue.
20 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Performance review Review of operations Water Purication and Operating Services In parts of the US, new regulations on ballast water Performance will come into force in 2006 07, and there are 2006 2005 good commercial opportunities ahead.
In January m m % 2006, Severn Trent fide Noras BalPure system was Turnover 267.8 208.1 28.7 the first commercial product to be selected by the profit 12.0 8.9 34.8 US Coast Guard and the US Environmental Protection Agency for validation at the Naval Research Laboratory Ballast Water Treatment Before interest, tax and exceptional items see note 4 Testing Facilities in Florida.
Operating Services Water Purication and Operating Services divisions This division comprises our Contract Operations Len Graziano both produced good results in 2005 06, increasing business, which carries out operating and President and CEO, turnover and profits.
Both divisions maintained maintenance contracts in the US: our Pipeline Water Purication their strategy of concentrating on higher margin Services business: and Severn Trent Water and Operating Services business and growth markets.
International STWI, which provides management and consultancy services in Europe and the The Water Purication Turnover in Water Purication and Operating developing world.
market will continue to Services was up by 28.7% to 267.8 million.
Around 62% of that arose in the US.
profit before Turnover in this division was up 39.6% to 163.8 grow, both in the US interest, tax and exceptional items increased to million.
profit before interest, tax and exceptional and UK, and in the 12.0 million, a rise of 34.8%.
The impact of items was up 67.2%.
These gures include Coast developing world exchange rates on the gures was immaterial.
to Coast Water C2C, the 25-year, 1 billion PFI contract with the UK Ministry of Defence, which Alongside the business concentration on achieving commenced on 30 March 2005. organic growth in 2005 06 was an intense focus on health and safety performance.
In the Contract Operations business in the US, we saw some significant contract wins and extensions.
Water Purication We also secured a three year contract in Jordan, The Water Purication divisions turnover rose by in the Middle East, our first contract in the region.
profit before interest, tax and exceptional items was up 11.2%.
Contract Operations continues to benefit from These gures now include turnover and profit from market conditions in the US, where tight scal the Metering Services business, formerly part of constraints mean that states and municipalities the Operating Services division.
are looking to outsourcing and public private partnership solutions for improving operational Metering Services performed well in 2005 06. performance.
Two trends made a major contribution to this: in the UK we saw rising demand for domestic On 2 June 2006 we signed heads of terms meter installation: and in the Middle East we to sell our interest in Aquan NV to the Flemish won large contracts in Abu Dhabi and Qatar to Government for approximately 30 million.
The supply our SmartMeter domestic meters.
sale is expected to be completed in July 2006.
Performance in the other businesses within the Outlook Water Purication division was slightly down on There are good growth prospects across all the previous year although they had some success, of Water Purication and Operating Services in particular the ltration and electro-chlorination businesses.
The Water Purication market will business.
Arsenic removal is a growing market for continue to grow, both in the US and UK, and in Severn Trent Services, and our partnership with the developing world.
Our product technologies Lanxess on SORB 33 arsenic removal technology and strong brand recognition will help us compete and Bayoxide E33 arsenic removal media gives vigorously in that market.
We also plan to increase us a strong market position.
In 2005 06 we were our direct presence in the global marketplace, delighted to have reached agreement on the expanding our sales and distribution channels.
extension of our partnership with Lanxess on arsenic removal in the industrial and municipal In Operating Services, we expect the positive water sector for another five years.
We expect to market conditions to continue.
We have a strong see further opportunities in arsenic removal, not position in the operating and maintenance just in our existing markets in the US and Europe, contracts market, and we intend to capitalise but in new markets like India.
on that position and grow our business further.
We also expect to see good results coming from the Coast to Coast contract in the UK, which will grow in terms of both importance and size.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 21 Performance review Review of operations Other Businesses Other Businesses turnover was down 31.2% to The group has 59.7 million 86.8 million.
They incurred a continued to rationalise loss before interest, tax and exceptional items of its other activities 3.5 million profit of 7.0 million.
There were no significant property transactions contributing to profit in 2005 06.
After exceptional restructuring costs of 3.1 million 3.8 million Other Businesses incurred a loss before interest and tax of 6.6 million profit of 3.2 million.
Systems The termination of external sales of the UK IT service business, which was announced in last years preliminary announcement, was completed and this business is now refocused entirely to provide solutions to internal group companies.
The groups remaining Systems businesses were sold to Logica in February 2006.
Property During the year, Severn Trent Property sold its interest in the Tournament Fields ofce scheme at Warwick and the remaining land at the Direct 2, Oldbury, West Midlands, both realising an acceptable profit.
At Daventry International Rail Freight Terminal, where planning permission has been granted for a further 2 million sq ft, work continues on infrastructure design and costing.
Marketing of the site will begin shortly, with the aim of securing substantial pre-lettings before construction work commences.
At Midpoint Park in Birmingham, a site of 90 acres owned by Severn Trent Water, a resolution to grant planning permission has been issued by Birmingham City Council.
Formal consent should be issued shortly and initial infrastructure works will then commence.
Following a strategic review it has been decided that Severn Trents Property business is a non-core business and a sale process has recently commenced.
Engineering Consultancy The groups Engineering Consultancy business has ceased taking on new external business but will complete existing contracts.
Its expertise has been transferred to Severn Trent Water to support that companys capital programme.
Insurance Derwent Insurance, Severn Trents captive insurer provides insurance cover to Severn Trent group companies.
22 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Performance review Review of operations Corporate responsibility Severn Trent Plcs corporate responsibility CR Environment Severn Trent was named programme focuses on delivering environmental Severn Trents greatest environmental impacts are as the utilities sector improvements, and making a positive difference to related to climate change and resource leader in the Dow Jones the social and economic welfare of our communities.
In 2005 06 we continued to drive Sustainability World The programme is steered by Severn Trents forward our responsible management of those Corporate Responsibility Committee, chaired by the impacts.
Targets for each of these areas are Index for the fifth Group Chief Executive.
A set of detailed policies detailed on our website.
consecutive year and targets defines how the groups CR vision and values are incorporated into our business activities.
The waste and water sectors are significant The vision, values and current targets are set out emitters of greenhouse gases.
The majority of in detail on Severn Trents website.
Severn Trents greenhouse gas emissions, measured as carbon dioxide CO equivalent, arise 2 In 2005 Severn Trent was named as the utilities from methane emissions from landlls, indirect sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability emissions from purchased electricity and emissions World Index for the fifth consecutive year.
Our work to control these includes ranking acknowledges Severn Trents sustainability improving landll gas capture, a comprehensive leadership and our determination to deliver review of energy efficiency within Severn Trent high-quality environmental services in a responsible Water, and the introduction of biodiesel to Biffas manner.
We reduce net emissions by generating renewable energy, and in 2005 06 we The key performance indicators presented in the continued to expand generation capacity.
At the graphs and tables in this CR section have been end of March 2006, installed generating capacity independently veried by Acona as part of our at Biffas sites was 108MW, compared to 101MW CR verication programme.
Severn Trent Water also increased its energy generation capacity, from 27MW at Business ethics March 2005, to 28MW a year later.
Corporate responsibility starts with getting core Group renewable energy generation business standards right.
In this regard we faced increased by 13.6% a significant challenge in 2005 in the form of our own, and Ofwats investigations, into allegations made against Severn Trent Water in 2004 of false 2005 06 691,668 MWh reporting of regulated data.
The investigations 2004 05 608,779 MWh found evidence of a limited number of staff who became aware of wrong behaviour but did not raise Data is for sites under group control.
any concerns, and we accept that this was partly due to weaknesses in Severn Trent Waters system of controls, culture and business ethics at that time.
Severn Trent aims to lead the policy debate on With the arrival of the new management team at climate change in the waste and water industries.
Severn Trent Water in 2004 and 2005, we have In 2005 we published the Carbon Management been strengthening internal processes, controls, Report, describing the results of the carbon ethics and culture.
As a result of a comprehensive management study we undertook with the support review of all Severn Trent Waters business activities of the Carbon Trust.
The study developed a set of we are undertaking a further investigation into projections for our greenhouse gas emissions misreporting of customer relations data to Ofwat.
through to 2020, with the aim of improving our understanding of future emissions trends, and The ongoing change programme within Severn priority areas we need to address.
We face a Trent Water includes promoting a culture based challenge to control emissions in the future due on openness and evaluation of all aspects of to the requirements of environmental legislation performance, bad as well as good, where every such as recycling targets and the Water Framework member of staff practises proper business ethics.
The full Carbon Management Report We have developed a new group policy on ethical appears on our website.
behaviour at work, which includes mechanisms and safeguards for whistle blowing, to support In 2005 06 we subsequently worked on two further the revised Code of Conduct.
studies to improve our control of net emissions, again with the support of the Carbon Trust.
The We will continue our efforts to review and improve first looked at how Severn Trent might explore Severn Trents culture and ethics in 2006 07 and other renewables technologies in order to reduce beyond.
net emissions, and this has fed into our business planning processes.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 23 Performance review Review of operations Corporate responsibility continued Key sources of greenhouse gas emissions Proportion of waste recycled or recovered CO equivalent by Biffa was 12.2% in 2005 06 2 Million tonnes CO e Million tonnes 2 10 2.0 8.77 8.05 1.63 8 1.53 1.5 6 1.0 4 Offset by 0.5 0.37 0.36 energy generation 0.12 0.13 group 2 1.13 1.12 0 Methane from Electricity use Transport 0 landll Biffa Severn Trent Biffa -0.26 -0.30 Total waste Waste recycled Water -0.5 Landlled at Biffas sites or recovered by Biffa 2004 2005 2005 2006 2004 2005 2005 2006 The second investigated the potential greenhouse Workplace gas emissions and related energy cost implications As described earlier, we devoted considerable of different technology choices for water and waste management time to workplace ethics in 2005 06, treatment.
In analysing our long term investment working to entrench a culture of openness and choices in the context of greenhouse gas emissions, honesty.
Alongside that, we continued a rigorous we aim to put climate change at the very heart of programme to improve health and safety our business.
Tragically, the importance of health and safety was underlined by Adaptation is the other theme of Severn Trents two fatalities: a Biffa contractor was hit by a Biffa climate change programme.
Severn Trent Water vehicle and a Biffa employee was struck by a car.
took a leading role in Sustainability West Midlands Biffa management has implemented the most Climate Change Partnership, helping the West rigorous investigation and made significant Midlands to understand and adapt to the potential changes to reduce the possibility of such incidents impacts arising from climate change.
completed a series of adaptation workshops in 2005 06, assessing how climate change could Among a wide range of measures implemented affect key areas of the business.
during 2005 06 were: restructuring the businesses health and safety departments to align them Our work on resource management focuses on two more closely with divisional structures: introducing principal elements: reducing our own consumption a health and safety multiplier in directors of natural resources and helping our customers performance bonuses: and launching group-wide manage resources, through activities like recycling.
Reducing leakage is an important part of both our Our strong focus on health and safety in 2004 05 own and our customers management of resources.
and 2005 06 led to a great improvement in our In our corporate responsibility report published performance in 2005 06.
The RIDDOR reportable later this year and following the June Return to incident rate for the group as a whole was Ofwat, we will provide a breakdown of demand and 17.3 per 1,000 employees, a reduction of leakage for Severn Trent Water.
We will also outline 27.6% compared to the previous year.
our work with domestic and industrial customers and our education programme to improve water Severn Trent believes that a diverse workforce is conservation.
important to the success of the company.
We regularly review our working practices to ensure equality of opportunity, and we promote the Biffa handled 1.12 million tonnes of solid waste for importance of good working relations based on recycling and recovery, 12.2% of the total amount fairness, equality and inclusiveness.
We are aware of solid waste directly disposed of.
Developments in that we must do more to improve our diversity 2005 06 included extending commercial glass performance over the coming months.
Our work to collections nationwide, and increasing composting achieve this includes: monitoring diversity proles activities.
across the group: targeted recruitment initiatives: diversity awareness training for staff and managers: Both Severn Trent Water and Biffa continued to and benchmarking our policies and practices expand their Biodiversity Action Plans in 2005 06. against best practice organisations.
24 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Performance review Biffas landll tax credit scheme, Biffaward, Health and safety performance Full details of our distributed almost 8.6 million in 2005 06 to over CR programme can be 200 individual projects.
They included, for example, found on our website 27.6% reduction in RIDDOR urban regeneration projects, a project to double www.
com the population of the brown hare, and a grant reportable incident rate for the Roald Dahl Museum and Story Centre.
Per 1,000 employees Education remained a priority of Severn Trents 2005 06 17.3 community activities.
Severn Trent Water continued 2004 05 23.9 the BeSmart initiative, which encourages school children to learn about water and the important role it plays in our lives.
Biffas interactive 2004 05 data is restated.
educational CD on waste won two prestigious communications awards.
Marketplace Most group companies have their own intranets Supply chain assessment has been the object and magazines which form a major communication of increasing public attention in recent years as channel with their employees.
Employee opinion companies seek to understand their responsibilities surveys are used to provide feedback on a range and improve performance within their sphere of issues.
We intensied our focus on supply chain assessment after we expressed support Group companies continue to maintain positive for the UN Global Compact Principles in 2004. relationships with the recognised trade unions and with other elected representatives.
The groups Severn Trent agreed group supply chain meeting of its European Consultative Council assessment objectives and targets in May 2005, is an annual opportunity to promote dialogue and these are published on our website.
Later in with employee representatives and enhance the financial year, we conducted a comprehensive their understanding of the issues facing our review of the different businesses supply chain businesses in Europe.
The review covered five areas of CR concern: environment, human rights, Training is also essential to the continuing success health and safety, bribery and corruption, and of the group.
We are continually expanding our working with minority or small and medium-sized staff development programmes and tools, which enterprises.
include learning resource centres, e-learning, audiovisual materials, and programmes with leading The review was completed in February 2006 and business schools such as Warwick and Aston.
in 2006 07 we will use its findings to build on existing good practice within the group, and to We continued to encourage share ownership identify priority areas for improvement in the in 2005 06, and we offer a number of plans individual businesses.
including a Save As You Earn Scheme, and a Share Incentive Plan.
Severn Trent is sensitive to issues of affordability and the needs of vulnerable customers, especially Community given the price increases scheduled for 2005-10.
We maintained our commitment to community One of the ways in which we provide for those investment and community liaison in 2005 06. customers is a substantial annual grant to the Our community investment programme continued Severn Trent Trust Fund, an independent charity to focus on three main areas: environmental established in 1997 to help customers in genuine education, the built environment, and the natural economic difficulty.
We worked with nine partner charities: WaterAid, Birmingham Cares, Leicester Each year around 8,000 people in Severn Trent Cares, Cromford Venture Centre, Bridlegate, Waters region apply for the Trusts help with Stonebridge City Farm, VSO, Crash-IT, and Ackers.
paying water and other utility bills, and over 70% of those applicants receive financial assistance.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 25 Performance review Financial review Group results Financial highlights 2006 2005 % change Turnover m 2,295 2,014 13.9 profit before interest and exceptionals m 488 399 22.4 profit before interest m 473 397 19.2 profit before tax, exceptionals and IAS 39 m 322 231 39.5 profit before tax m 270 229 18.0 Earnings per share before exceptionals, IAS 39 and deferred tax p 77.2 56.1 37.6 Michael McKeon Earnings per share p 63.9 45.7 39.8 Group Finance Director Gearing % 60.9 61.0 Final dividend p 31.97 30.30 5.5 Interim dividend p 19.16 18.21 5.2 Total dividend for the year p 51.13 48.51 5.4 From continuing operations see notes 4 and 13 Group turnover from continuing operations was Basic earnings per share from continuing 2,295.0 million 2,014.4 million, an increase of operations were 65.2 pence 45.4 pence.
The growth in turnover was basic earnings per share before exceptional items, mainly due to the price increases in Severn Trent IAS 39 fair value adjustments and deferred tax Water: strong growth in Landll and Collection at were 77.2 pence 56.1 pence, an increase of 37.6%.
Biffa and the new Ministry of Defence contract in Operating Services, which were partially offset Biffa Belgium, the sale of which was announced on by the reduction in activity in the Other Businesses.
12 May 2006 and was classied as a discontinued operation, incurred a loss of 4.3 million profit of Group profit from continuing operations before 0.8 million.
interest, tax and exceptional items was up 22.4% to 488.2 million 398.8 million.
There was Exceptional items a net exceptional charge of 15.7 million There was an exceptional charge in the year of 2.3 million see below.
Group profit from 15.7 million, which comprised: continuing operations before interest and tax was 472.5 million 396.5 million.
a charge of 7.9 million for restructuring costs, including 4.8 million in Water and Sewerage After net interest charges of 167.9 million 169.5 and 3.1 million in Other Businesses: and million and share of results of associates and joint demerger and related costs of 7.8 million ventures of 2.1 million 1.8 million, group profit in Corporate: from continuing operations before tax, exceptional items and IAS 39 fair value adjustments was up In 2004 05 there was a net exceptional charge of 39.5% to 322.4 million 231.1 million.
Group 2.3 million which comprised: profit from continuing operations before tax was 270.0 million 228.8 million.
a charge of 10.4 million relating to restructuring costs in Water and Sewerage: The total tax charge for the year was 42.7 million a charge of 3.8 million, resulting from the 71.5 million of which current tax represented closure of Systems US CIS business and the 48.8 million 33.8 million and deferred tax was termination of external sales from Systems UK a credit of 6.0 million charge of 29.4 million.
IT Services business and Engineering profit for the period from continuing operations Consultancy: was 227.3 million 157.3 million.
a 4.3 million credit from the disposal of Water Purication and Operating Services investment in an associated company in Portugal: and a 7.6 million credit from the profit on sale of xed assets in Water and Sewerage.
26 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Performance review Taxation Cash generated from operations was 758.9 The charge for current tax on continuing operations million 623.3 million.
Capital expenditure was 48.7 million 37.9 million.
The current tax net of grants and proceeds of sales of xed assets charge has benefited from a release of 39.1 was 395.9 million 406.4 million including million charged in prior years following the capital expenditure in Severn Trent Water of agreement of the corporation tax computations for 305.3 million 319.1 million.
Interest paid years up to and including 2002 03 2004 05: increased to 180.1 million 151.1 million release of 11.5 million.
The effective rate of due to additional payments of interest on finance current tax calculated on profit before tax, leases.
Tax payments increased as a result of the exceptional items and IAS 39 fair value higher underlying effective rate of tax.
Tax Bulletin 53, which changes the tax treatment of deferred The acceleration of dividend payments resulted in revenue expenditure in Severn Trent Water, an additional dividend payment of 66.5 million increased the effective rate of tax by approximately in 2005 06.
3.4% and permanent differences increased the effective rate by a further 6.4%.
These impacts Net debt at 31 March 2006 was 2,961.1 million were partially offset by lump sum pension 2,894.6 million.
Year end balance sheet gearing contributions which reduced the effective rate of is 60.9% 61.0%, and the group net debt to RCV current tax in the year by 4.5%.
The groups net interest charge, excluding IAS 39 fair value adjustments, was Going forward we would expect the effective rate covered 4.6 times 4.0 times by profit before of tax for the current group structure to be in the interest, tax, depreciation and exceptional items, range of 30% to 35%.
The planned demerger of and 2.9 times 2.4 times by profit before interest Biffa along with other announced changes will tax and exceptionals.
Accounting policies Cash ow These are the first full year results that the group has reported under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The impacts of IFRS on the groups results and balance sheet were 2006 2005 m m set out in a presentation on 19 September 2005, which is available on the groups website.
The Cash generated from group has taken advantage of the exemption operations 758.9 623.3 available in IAS 32 and IAS 39 not to restate Net capital expenditure 395.9 406.4 comparative information for the impact of those Net interest paid 180.1 151.1 standards.
The opening reserves at 1 April 2005 Tax paid 68.3 36.5 have been restated to reect the impact of adopting IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Other cash ows 0.2 2.5 Free cash ow 114.4 31.8 Dividends 234.3 162.0 Acquisitions and disposals 1.3 3.4 Financing 11.6 1.4 Change in net debt from cash ows 107.0 125.4 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 27 Performance review Financial review continued Pensions Earnings per share and dividend The group has four dened benefit pension Earning per share from continuing operations, schemes, of which the Severn Trent Pension adjusted to exclude exceptional items, IAS 39 fair Scheme STPS is by far the largest.
Formal value adjustments and deferred tax, increased by actuarial valuations were undertaken for the STPS 37.6% to 77.2p 56.1p.
Basic earnings per share and another scheme, the Severn Trent Senior Staff from continuing operations were 65.2p 45.4p.
Pension Scheme, as at 31 March 2004.
An interim dividend of 19.16p 18.21p, up 5.2% On an IAS 19 basis, the estimated net position was paid on 25 January 2006.
The board is before deferred tax of all of the groups dened recommending the payment of a final dividend of benefit pension schemes and the groups unfunded 31.97p 30.30p up 5.5% to make a total dividend pension liabilities for senior staff was a deficit of of 51.13p 48.51p.
This compares with a deficit of 317.5 million as at 31 March Treasury management 2005.
The reduction in the deficit arose because The groups treasury affairs are managed centrally the increase in assets, from higher than expected and in accordance with its Treasury Procedures investment returns and increased contributions, Manual and Policy Statement.
The treasury exceeded the increase in liabilities from a reduction operations primary role is to manage liquidity, in the discount rate.
Total cash contributions to the funding, investment and the groups financial risk, schemes in the year was 105.2 million 62.3 including risk from volatility in interest and, to a million.
This included a payment of 44.4 million lesser extent, currency rates and counterparty relating to the year 2006 07. credit risk.
Its activities are subject to a set of controls commensurate with the magnitude of the The key actuarial assumptions were: borrowings and investments under its management.
The board determines matters of treasury policy and its approval is required for certain treasury transactions.
2006 2005 Discount rate 4.9% 5.5% It is the groups strategy to access a broad range Ination 2.7% 2.75% of sources of finance to obtain both the quantum Expected return on equities 8.0% 8.25% required and the lowest cost compatible with the need for continued availability.
Life expectancy at age 65 years The group uses financial derivatives solely for the Men 18.9 18.9 purposes of managing risk associated with Women 21.8 21.8 nancing its normal business activities.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial for future pensioners instruments for financial trading purposes.
The group uses a limited number of currency swaps and interest rate swaps to redenominate external borrowings into the currencies and interest rate Net of deferred tax, the estimated net deficit on an coupon required for group purposes.
IAS 19 basis as at 31 March 2006 was approximately 155 million.
On an IAS 19 basis, the funding level The groups policy for the management of interest has improved from around 77% at 31 March 2005 rate risk requires that no less than 50% of the to around 86% at 31 March 2006. groups borrowings should be at xed interest rates, or hedged through the use of interest rate As at 31 March 2006 the groups dened benefit swaps or forward rate agreements.
At 31 March pension schemes had total assets of approximately 2006, interest rates for some 72% of the groups 1,403 million, of which around 65% was invested net debt of 2,961 million were so xed, at a in equities.
weighted average interest rate of 5.7% for a weighted average period of 14.6 years.
This policy Further details of the groups pension position are has been implemented by entering into a portfolio contained in note 27 to the accounts.
of long dated interest rate swaps that hedge the groups economic exposure to changes in interest rates.
However, these swaps are not designated to particular liabilities and hence do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
28 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Performance review Consequently the swaps are revalued at each balance sheet date and the change in fair value is taken to the income statement as a finance cost.
In the year ended 31 March 2006 36.7 million was charged to finance costs in respect of such fair value movements.
The groups business does not involve significant exposure to foreign exchange transactions.
Cross currency swaps are employed to exchange foreign currency borrowings for sterling.
The group also has investments in various assets denominated in foreign currencies, principally the US dollar and the euro.
The groups current policy is to hedge an element of the currency translation risk associated with certain foreign currency denominated assets.
The long term credit ratings of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Limited are: Long term credit ratings Severn Trent Severn Trent Water Limited Plc Moodys A2A3 Standard & Poors A A Further details of the groups borrowings, investments and financial instruments are contained in note 19 to the accounts.
Exchange rates Approximately 2% of the groups profit before interest, tax and exceptional items and 4% of its net operating assets are denominated in US dollars and approximately 0.5% of its profit before interest, tax, and exceptional items and 1% of its net operating assets are denominated in euros.
The trading results of overseas subsidiaries are translated to sterling at the average rate of exchange ruling during the year and their net assets are translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date.
Supplementary information For supplementary information, including the groups preliminary results presentation, see the Severn Trent website www.
Michael McKeon Group Finance Director Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 29 Governance Board of directors Membership of board and operating Sir John Egan KBE MSc BEng 66 Martin Flower BA 59 committees is as detailed below: Sir John joined the board in October 2004 and became Martin joined the board in June 1996 and was appointed Chairman on 1 January 2005.
He is a director of Warwick Deputy Chairman in July 2004.
He is the senior Board committees Castle Park Trust Ltd and was, until recently, Chairman of independent non-executive director.
He is also Chairman Inchcape plc and Harrison Lovegrove & Co Ltd. Sir John of Croda International Plc and has been a director of Audit Committee worked in the motor industry until 1990 at General The Morgan Crucible Company Plc since December 2004.
J B Smith Chairman Motors, Massey Ferguson and British Leyland, rising to Martin retired as Chairman of Coats Ltd in May 2004, B Bulkin become Chairman and Chief Executive of Jaguar plc.
He where he had previously been Group Chief Executive.
M L Cassoni was Chief Executive of BAA plc from 1990 to 1999 and Martin retires from the board on 10 June 2006.
R H Davey Chairman of MEPC from 1998 to 2000.
He was also F B Smith Secretary President of the Confederation of British Industry from John Smith FCCA Hon.
Sir John was knighted in the Queens John joined the board in November 2003.
He is Chief Remuneration Committee Birthday Honours List in 1986 and is a deputy lieutenant Operating officer of the BBC and Chief Executive of its M C Flower of the County of Warwickshire.
He is also Vice President of Chairman until 10 June 2006 the Royal Television Society.
John has held a non-executive R H Davey Colin Matthews MA CEng MBA 50 directorship with Vickers Plc, was a member of the Chairman from 11 June 2006 M L Cassoni Colin joined the board in October 2003, becoming Group advisory board of Zurich Financial Services UK and M J Houston Chief Executive on 1 February 2005.
He is a Chartered served for three years on the Accounting Standards F B Smith Secretary Engineer and worked for the American General Electric Board until November 2004.
Company and then for British Airways, first as Director Nominations Committee of Engineering, then as Director of Technical Operations, Marisa Cassoni BSc ACA 54 Sir John Egan Chairman responsible for all aircraft maintenance, IT and procurement.
Marisa joined the board in September 2001.
Until recently B Bulkin c Colin was Group Managing Director of Transco from 2001 she was Group Finance Director of Royal Mail Group plc M L Cassoni to 2002 and CEO of Hays Plc from 2002 to 2004. and on 26 June 2006 will be appointed Finance Director R H Davey of the John Lewis Partnership.
She is a non-executive M C Flower c Michael McKeon MA CA 49 director of GFI Group Inc, a company listed on the M J Houston Michael joined the board on 13 December 2005 as Group NASDAQ, and WSP Group Plc.
Marisa is also a member of C S Matthews Finance Director.
Prior to that, he was Group Finance the CBI Economic Affairs Committee and a member of the J B Smith c Director of the buildings materials group Novar Plc.
He Financial Reporting Councils Accounting Standards Board.
F B Smith Secretary worked for Rolls Royce Plc from 1997 to 2000 in various She qualied as an accountant with Deloitte, Haskins & senior roles including Finance Director of the Aerospace Sells, rising to Corporate Finance Manager.
She moved to c Core Members Group.
Michael has extensive international business the Prudential Corporation and later became Group Corporate Responsibility Committee experience, having worked overseas for CarnaudMetalbox, Finance Director at Britannic Assurance plc.
C S Matthews Chairman Elf Atochem and Price Waterhouse.
He is a member of the M J Bettington Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Martin Houston BSc MSc DIC 48 R S Brydon Jannetta Martin joined the board in September 2003.
He is B Bulkin Tony Wray BSc Hons 44 Executive Vice President and Managing Director of BG Sir John Egan Tony joined the board in March 2005.
He is Managing Groups North American, Caribbean and Global Liqueed P J Gavan Director of Severn Trent Water Ltd.
Prior to that, he was Natural Gas business and a member of the Group L F Graziano Director of Networks at Eircom, the Republic of Irelands Executive Committee.
He joined BG Group in 1983 and A P Smith telephone operator.
He joined British Gas in 1983 and held has held a number of technical and commercial roles with A P Wray various managerial positions before becoming Head of a predominantly international focus.
He is a fellow of the F B Smith Secretary Asset Management.
In 2000 Tony moved to Transco, first Geological Society of London.
as Director of Asset Management, then as National Operating committee Operations Director, before being appointed to implement Richard Davey 57 the merger integration of Lattice Transco and National Richard joined the board on 1 January 2006 and becomes Executive Committee Grid Group into National Grid Transco.
senior independent non-executive director on 11 June C S Matthews Chairman 2006.
He is a non-executive director of Yorkshire Building M J Bettington R S Brydon Jannetta Martin Bettington BSc MechEng MBA 53 Society and Amlin Plc.
He also served as a non-executive P J Gavan Martin joined the board in November 1994.
He is the director of Freeserve Plc from 1999 to 2001 and of L F Graziano Managing Director of Biffa Plc, Severn Trents waste Scottish Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society from M J E McKeon management business.
Martin was previously employed by 1996 to 2000.
The majority of Richards executive career A P Smith BET Plc, Biffas former holding company.
He holds an MBA was spent in investment banking at N M Rothschild & F B Smith and Secretary from Manchester Business School.
Sons where he served in various roles including Head of P K Tandon Investment Banking.
Prior to that, he worked at various J van den Arend Schmidt Rachel Brydon Jannetta FCCA 46 organisations including Merrill Lynch International Limited A P Wray Rachel joined the board in September 2004.
She is and Exco International Plc.
President and CEO of Severn Trents US and UK Senior independent non-executive laboratories businesses.
A Fellow of the Chartered Bernard Bulkin, BS PhD FRSC FRSA FIE 64 director Association of Certied Accountants, Rachel qualied as an Bernard joined the board on 1 January 2006.
He is M C Flower until 10 June 2006 accountant in 1984 with Gerber Landa and Gee, an Chairman of AEA Technology Plc and a non-executive R H Davey from 11 June 2006 accounting rm based in Glasgow.
She then spent eight director of Accelergy Corporation in California.
He is years in retail management, latterly with an Asda Plc group also a venture partner at Vantage Point, an international Group General Counsel and company, before joining Severn Trent in 1993 as Managing venture capital rm.
Bernard is a commissioner on the Company Secretary F B Smith Director of its UK laboratories operation.
She is also a UK Sustainable Development Commission and a board director of WaterAid America, the US arm of the WaterAid member of the UK Centre for Economic and Environmental charity.
He is also a member of the DTI Sustainable Energy Policy Advisory Board.
In 2003 he retired as Chief Scientist at BP Plc, where he had worked for eighteen years.
Non-executive director 30 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Governance Left to right Sir John Egan Colin Matthews Michael McKeon Tony Wray Martin Bettington Rachel Brydon Jannetta Martin Flower John Smith Marisa Cassoni Martin Houston Richard Davey Bernard Bulkin Non-executive director Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 31 Governance Summary directors report Principal activities and business review Post balance sheet events The principal activities of the group are the On 4 April 2006 the company announced its supply of water and sewerage services, waste intention to demerge Biffa, its UK integrated management and the provision of environmental waste management business.
A review of the results for the year ended 31 March 2006 and information relating to the On 7 April 2006 the company announced it was group, its strategy and the operation of its giving Ofwat an interim report into misreporting businesses appear on pages 4 to 29. of customer relations data by Severn Trent Water.
Dividends On 12 May 2006 the company announced it had An interim dividend of 19.16 pence per ordinary agreed to sell Biffa Belgium to Veolia for 45m.
share was paid on 25 January 2006.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 31.97 pence per On 2 June 2006 the group signed heads of terms ordinary share to be paid on 2 August 2006 to to sell its interest in Aquan NV to the Flemish shareholders on the register on 30 June 2006.
This would bring the total dividend for 2005 06 to 51.13 pence per ordinary share 2005: 48.51p.
Substantial shareholdings The payment of the final dividend is subject to As at 2 June 2006 the company had been notied shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
of the following substantial shareholdings: Directors Details of the directors currently serving on Number of ordinary 5 shares of 65 19p each % the board are set out on page 30.
Michael McKeon was appointed as an executive director Legal & General 11,259,833 3.26 on 13 December 2005.
Bernard Bulkin and Investment Management Richard Davey joined as non-executive directors Limited on 1 January 2006.
As the appointments have Barclays plc 10,762,602 3.10 been made since the last Annual General Meeting, each director will retire in accordance with the companys Articles of Association and resolutions for their re-appointment will be proposed at this Annual General Meeting years Annual General Meeting.
The directors The Annual General Meeting of the company retiring by rotation at this years Annual General will be held at the International Convention Centre, Meeting are Martin Houston, Colin Matthews and Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11.00am John Smith and, each being eligible, offer on Tuesday 25 July 2006.
The notice convening themselves for re-appointment.
the meeting, together with details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes for each John McAdam, Mark Wilson and Derek Osborn resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
retired from the board on 1 September 2005, It is also available on the companys website: 13 December 2005 and 31 March 2006 www.
Martin Flower will retire from the board on 10 June 2006.
By order of the board Corporate governance The company attaches great signicance to the maintenance of good corporate procedures and Fiona Smith adherence to best practice recognising that they Group General Counsel and Company Secretary play their part in creating a framework which 5 June 2006 can provide increased benets for shareholders.
For the year ended 31 March 2006 and the period up to the date of approving the accounts, the board considers that the company has complied with the provisions set out in the Combined Code.
A statement of how the company has applied the main and supporting principles of the Combined Code is set out in the Annual Report and Accounts 2006.
32 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Governance Summary directors remuneration report Remuneration Committee Total remuneration package The Remuneration Committee determines, The chart below shows the expected values of on behalf of the board, the companys policy on salary, bonus and long-term incentives for target the remuneration of executive directors and the performance for the executive directors.
The committee is also consulted on the remuneration policy for the next band of seven senior executives.
Group Chief Executive Finance The committee is comprised exclusively of Director independent non-executive directors of the MD ST Water company.
The members of the committee during MD Biffa the year were: President ST Laboratories Martin Flower Chairman 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Marisa Cassoni Salary Target Bonus Expected value of long-term incentives Richard Davey from 03 03 06 Martin Houston from 01 09 05 John McAdam until 01 09 05 The committee considers the mix between xed and performance pay to be appropriate.
Richard Davey will become Chairman of the committee when Martin Flower retires from the Personal shareholdings board on 10 June 2006.
The company operates shareholding guidelines under which executive directors are expected to The committee members have no personal build and maintain a minimum holding of shares financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the in the company.
The Group Chief Executive is matters to be decided.
The constitution and operation expected to build and maintain a holding of shares of the committee comply with the Combined Code.
to the value of 1.5 x base salary and other executive In setting performance related remuneration, the directors 1 x base salary.
committee has regard to the provisions set out in Schedule A to the Combined Code.
Through a variety of share schemes, all employees are encouraged to hold shares in the company.
Advisers To ensure that the companys remuneration External directorships practices are market competitive, the committee has Executive directors are encouraged to take on access to detailed external research on market data external non-executive directorships, though and trends from experienced specialist consultants.
normally only one other FTSE 100 appointment.
In order to avoid any conicts of interest, all such The Chairman of the board, Sir John Egan, the appointments are subject to the approval of the Group Chief Executive, Colin Matthews, the Group Nominations Committee.
Executive directors are Human Resources Director, Andy Smith, and the normally only permitted to retain the fees arising Group Director of Internal Audit, Pramod Tandon, from one such appointment.
also attended some meetings to provide advice and respond to specic questions.
Such attendances Chairman and other non-executive directors specically exclude any matter concerning their The remuneration policy for non-executive own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts directors, other than the Chairman, is determined as secretary to the committee.
by the board, within the limits set out in the Articles of Association.
Remuneration policy The companys continuing remuneration policy for Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate executive directors is to provide remuneration in a in incentive plans nor is any pension provision made.
form and amount which will attract, retain, motivate and reward high calibre individuals.
The Save for John Smith, whose total fees are paid remuneration package is based on the following directly to his employer, non-executive directors principles: receive payment of part of their fees in the form of shares in the company which are expected to Incentives are aligned with the interests of be retained for the duration of their appointment.
shareholders and seek to reward the creation of long-term value: The non-executive directors do not have service Reward elements are designed to reinforce the contracts or consultancy agreements with any group link between performance and reward.
company, but they do have letters of appointment.
Performance related elements should form a significant proportion of the total remuneration package and typically comprise at least 50% of total remuneration, if paid at the maximum: The total remuneration package for on target performance should be fully competitive, but not excessive, in the relevant market: Packages are structured exibly to meet critical resource needs and retain key executives.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 33 Governance Summary directors remuneration report continued Remuneration arrangements for executive 2005 LTIP awards directors In respect of awards made to executive directors The remuneration arrangements for executive in 2005, the vesting of 50% is dependent on directors comprise the following elements: performance against group economic profit EP targets, and the remaining 50% is dependent on Base salary and benets: a Total Shareholder Return TSR target, both over Annual bonus plan: a xed three year period beginning on the first day Long Term Incentive Plans: of the financial year in which the award was made.
The 2003 and 2004 LTIP awards will be triggered Details of each of the above elements are as follows: if the companys TSR performance is at the median or above and the EP meets the scaled targets set.
Base salaries and benets EP is calculated by reference to a post tax rate of Base salaries are a xed cash sum payable monthly.
The companys policy is to set the salary for each executive director having regard to the market median The constituents of the TSR comparator group for for similar roles in publicly quoted companies of a the 2005 award are: comparable size and, so far as practical, undertaking similar activities.
Salaries for individual directors AWG Pennon Group are reviewed annually by the committee and BOC Group Rentokil Initial generally take effect on 1 April.
Salaries are set BT Group Scottish & Newcastle with reference to individual performance, experience Diageo Scot.
& Southern Energy and contribution, together with developments in the Kelda Group Scottish Power relevant employment market and internal relativities.
National Grid Shanks Group Northumbrian Water Unilever The non-salary benets for executive directors Pearson United Utilities comprise the use of company car or allowance, fuel, private medical insurance, life assurance and For the 2003 Award the comparator group an incapacity benets scheme.
consists of: AWG Plc, Kelda Plc, Pennon Group Plc, Shanks Plc, United Utilities Plc, Northumbrian Annual bonus plan Water Plc and Waste Recycling Group Plc.
The Executive directors are eligible for annual bonuses same comparator group, minus Waste Recycling to encourage improved performance, measured Group Plc, was used for the 2004 Award.
by reference to both financial and non-financial factors.
Performance targets are established by 2006 LTIP awards the committee to align executive directors interests The committee considers that, given the outcome with shareholders and comprise profitability plus of the strategic review of the groups operations return on capital employed for Martin Bettington, TSR will more clearly represent an alignment of the achievement of personal objectives and specic executives interests with those of shareholders.
targets relating to health and safety performance.
The awards to be made in 2006, therefore, will be based exclusively on TSR.
Annual bonus payments are not taken into account in calculating executive directors pension entitlements.
The committee intends to use a similar methodology for selecting the comparator group as it did for Long term incentives the 2005 awards.
Again, the committee will again At the 2005 Annual General Meeting, shareholders review the proposed constituents before making approved the introduction of the Long Term any award to ensure that, overall, they are Incentive Plan 2005 LTIP 2005, which replaced appropriate.
the 1997 Long Term Incentive Plan.
Under the LTIP 2005, annual conditional awards of performance Calculation of EP performance during transition to shares may be made to executive directors and International Financial Reporting Standard IFRS senior staff, up to an annual maximum limit of For unvested awards made prior to 2006, the basis shares worth 125% of base salary.
In 2005, the for measuring the profits that underpin the EP Group Chief Executive received an award over calculation was set under UK GAAP, whereas the shares worth 100% of salary with other executive end of the performance period will be reported directors and senior staff receiving lower awards.
The committee has restated the base conditions for the 2005 awards under The number of shares subject to an award will IFRS to ensure that the targets are measured increase to reect dividends paid through the on a consistent basis and as originally intended.
performance period on the basis of such notional The 2003 and 2004 awards will continue to be dividends being reinvested at the then prevailing measured and set on a UK GAAP basis given the share price.
Awards will normally vest as soon difficulty in restating the base gures and the as the committee determines that the performance committee will ensure that the end gures are conditions have been met provided that the measured consistently.
participant remains in employment at the end of the performance period.
34 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Governance Forward looking statement Total shareholder return The committee will keep the existing remuneration 220 arrangements, as detailed in this report, under 200 review during the next year to ensure that the 180 160 companys reward programmes remain competitive 140 and provide appropriate incentives.
No significant 120 changes to the reward arrangements for executive 100 80 directors are anticipated prior to the completion 60 and implementation of the strategic review and the 40 20 committee proposes to review the arrangements 0 again at that time.
31-03-01 31-03-02 31-03-03 31-03-04 31-03-05 31-03-06 Severn Trent Plc FTSE 100 Index However, there will be the normal individual reviews of base salary, annual bonus and LTIP award levels.
The performance targets for incentive arrangements Post retirement benets will continue to be reviewed to ensure alignment Of the current executive directors, Martin Bettington, with group strategy and will maintain a significant Colin Matthews and Tony Wray participate in the emphasis on the achievement of health and safety Senior Staff Pension Scheme as did Mark Wilson performance targets.
The scheme is a funded Inland Revenue approved final salary occupational Directors service agreements and letters pension scheme which provides: of engagement A new model service contract was approved by the A normal retirement age of 60 years: committee in 2004.
All current executive directors An overall pension at normal retirement age have signed the model contract and, accordingly, of two-thirds of final pensionable salary, which service agreements for all executive directors have for executive directors is dened as base salary notice periods of 12 months.
They also provide only, subject to the completion of 20 years for a maximum damages payment in the case pensionable service: of redundancy or termination in breach of the Life cover of 4 x pensionable earnings: agreement by the company of up to 175% of A pension payable in the event of retirement base salary which was calculated as a conservative on grounds of ill health: pre-estimate of the value of salary, xed benets A dependents pension on death of two thirds and on target bonus.
The reference to 175% is a cap and any damages The company has a future obligation in respect of payments will not be made automatically but will Mark Wilson who joined the Scheme after 1 June be subject to both phasing and mitigation unless 1989 and was, therefore, subject to the Cap, to pay in the circumstances the committee considers the difference between his pension entitlement it appropriate to achieve a clean break through based upon the relevant portion of his salary and payment of a lump sum in which case it will the maximum amount payable had the Cap not require some discount for early payment.
also permit the committee to take into account a view of the extent of poor performance on the part Colin Matthews and Tony Wray participate up to of the executive director.
Any payment will not the level of the Inland Revenue earnings cap the include amounts in respect of awards which have Cap which in 2005 06 was 105,600.
In 2006 07 been made under the companys LTIP over which a scheme specic cap of 108,600 will apply.
Both the committee retains absolute discretion.
There are provided with a cash supplement in lieu of an are no specic contractual payments or benets unfunded arrangement.
which would be triggered in the event of a change in control of the company.
Following a review of the companys pension policy, new executives are offered an allowance, expressed as a percentage of base salary to fund their own pension provision.
The individual is able to choose whether the allowance is paid to the company's registered dened contribution DC scheme, taken as cash or paid to a personal pension arrangement.
The gross value of shares is recorded in the table above.
Non-executive directors who were either appointed or retired during the year received a time apportioned award.
The number of shares received by each non-executive director was: Sir John Egan 1,253: Marisa Cassoni 106: Martin Flower 290: Martin Houston 90: Derek Osborn 163.
2 Benets in kind for Sir John Egan comprise the use of a company car.
Benets in kind for executive directors comprise the use of a company car, fuel, private medical insurance, life assurance and an incapacity benets scheme.
3 Other emoluments represent expenses chargeable to UK income tax, car allowances, exible benets and amounts in lieu of pension contributions or in lieu of entry into the supplementary pension scheme for those earning earning above the pension cap limit.
Included in other emoluments are: Rachel Brydon Jannetta cash allowance of 76,752 in lieu of pension contributions Colin Matthews cash payment of 165,760 in lieu of entry to supplementary pension scheme Michael McKeon relocation expenses of 38,137 and a cash allowance in lieu of pension allowance of 44,594 Mark Wilson 299,095 of termination payments and 24,327 for holiday not taken Tony Wray cash payment of 57,760 in lieu of entry to the supplementary pension scheme.
4 Sir John Egan was appointed Chairman from 1 January 2005.
5 Colin Matthews was appointed Group Chief Executive Designate on 6 September 2004 and Group Chief Executive on 1 February 2005.
6 John Smiths total fees are paid directly to his employer.
Signed on behalf of the board who approved the Directors remuneration report on 5 June 2006.
Martin Flower Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 36 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Summary financial statement Summary financial statement The Summary directors report on page 32, the Shareholders can elect to receive the full Annual Summary directors remuneration report on pages Report and Accounts for all future years by 33 to 36 and the Summary financial statement contacting the companys registrars, Lloyds TSB on pages 38 and 39 are a summary of information Registrars whose details appear on page 40. in the Annual Report and Accounts 2006.
The Financial statements, the Directors report and This Annual Review and summary financial the Directors remuneration report are contained statement does not contain sufficient information in the Annual Report and Accounts 2006. to allow as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of the company or of the group The auditors report on the Financial statements nor of the policies and arrangements concerning and the auditable part of the Directors directors remuneration as would be provided by the remuneration report, which is unqualied, is also Annual Report and Accounts 2006.
Shareholders contained within the Annual Report and Accounts requiring more detailed information have the right 2006.
The auditors report did not contain a to obtain, free of charge a copy of the Annual statement under either section 237 2 of the Report and Accounts 2006.
Companies Act 1985 inadequate accounting records or returns or section 237 3 failure to A copy of the Annual Report and Accounts 2006 obtain certain necessary information and may be obtained by writing to: The Company explanations.
Secretary, Severn Trent Plc, 2297 Coventry Road, Birmingham B26 3PU.
Alternatively it can be accessed on the website at: www.
Independent auditors statement to the members of Severn Trent Plc We have examined the summary financial contained in the annual review as described in the statement which comprises the summary income contents section, and consider the implications for statement, balance sheet and cash ow statement our report if we become aware of any apparent together with the summary directors report and misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary directors remuneration report.
This report is made solely to the company's Basis of opinion members, as a body, in accordance with section We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has 1999 6 The Auditors Statement on the Summary been undertaken so that we might state to the Financial Statement issued by the Auditing companys members those matters we are required Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no We have not considered the effects of any events other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by between the date on which we signed our report law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to on the financial statements, 5 June 2006, and the anyone other than the company and the date of this statement.
companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or for the Opinion opinions we have formed.
In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual accounts, the Respective responsibilities of directors and directors report and the directors remuneration auditors report of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended The directors are responsible for preparing the 31 March 2006 and complies with the applicable annual review in accordance with applicable United requirements of section 251 of the Companies Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
our opinion on the consistency of the summary The auditors report on the companys annual financial statement with the full annual accounts, accounts was unqualied.
the directors report and the directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Deloitte & Touche LLP Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors thereunder.
We report whether the auditors London opinion on the full annual accounts was unqualied United Kingdom or qualied.
We also read the other information 9 June 2006 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 37 Summary financial statement Summary consolidated income statement Year ended 31 March 2006 2006 2005 m m Turnover 2,295.0 2,014.4 Operating costs before exceptional items 1,806.8 1,615.6 Exceptional restructuring costs and termination of operations 7.9 14.2 Exceptional demerger costs 7.8 Exceptional profit on disposal of property and investments 11.9 Total operating costs 1,822.5 1,617.9 profit before interest tax and exceptional items 488.2 398.8 Exceptional items 15.7 2.3 Operating profit 472.5 396.5 Finance income 7.9 3.5 Finance costs 175.8 173.0 Net finance costs before fair value movements in treasury instruments 167.9 169.5 Fair value movements on treasury instruments 36.7 Total net finance costs 204.6 169.5 Share of results of associates and joint ventures 2.1 1.8 profit before tax, fair value movements on treasury instruments and exceptional items 322.4 231.1 Exceptional items 15.7 2.3 Fair value movements on treasury instruments 36.7 profit on ordinary activities before taxation 270.0 228.8 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities current tax 48.7 37.9 deferred tax 6.0 33.6 Total taxation 42.7 71.5 profit for the period from continuing operations 227.3 157.3 Discontinued operations Loss profit for the period from discontinued operations 4.3 0.8 profit for the period 223.0 158.1 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 221.6 157.4 Equity minority interests 1.4 0.7 223.0 158.1 Earnings per share pence From continuing operations Basic 65.2 45.4 Diluted 64.7 45.1 From continuing and discontinued operations Basic 63.9 45.7 Diluted 63.5 45.3 38 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Summary financial statement Summary group balance sheet At 31 March 2006 2006 2005 m m Non current assets 6,395.3 6,290.8 Current assets 689.3 649.3 Assets held for sale 41.5 Total assets 7,126.1 6,940.1 Current liabilities 1,570.6 1,166.3 Non current liabilities 3,656.5 3,924.3 Total liabilities 5,227.1 5,090.6 Net assets 1,899.0 1,849.5 Equity attributable to the company's equity shareholders 1,896.4 1,847.6 Minority interest 2.6 1.9 Total equity 1,899.0 1,849.5 Signed on behalf of the board who approved the accounts on 5 June 2006.
Sir John Egan Michael McKeon Chairman Group Finance Director Summary group cash ow statement Year ended 31 March 2006 2006 2005 m m Net cash generated from operating activities 506.1 433.7 Net cash used in investing activities 389.6 397.9 Net cash used in nancing activities 72.4 55.1 Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 44.1 19.3 Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 64.4 83.2 Effect of foreign exchange rates 1.9 0.5 Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 110.4 64.4 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 39 Other information Information for shareholders Financial calendar and results announcements contact the registrars if you would like to have your Annual General Meeting dividends paid directly into your bank or building 25 July 2006, at 11.00am society account.
You should also Analysis of shareholdings at 31 March 2006 Number Number of % of of shares % Category shareholders shareholders millions of shares Individual and joint accounts 81,631 92.84 42.37 12.17 Other 6,292 7.16 305.72 87.83 Total 87,923 100.00 348.09 100.00 Number Number of % of of shares % Size of Holding shareholders shareholders millions of shares 1-499 52,844 60.10 10.32 2.97 500-999 20,194 22.97 13.79 3.96 1,000-4,999 13,498 15.35 21.15 6.08 5,000-9,999 475 0.54 3.11 0.89 10,000-49,999 432 0.49 9.84 2.82 50,000-99,999 140 0.16 9.85 2.83 Over 100,000 340 0.39 280.03 80.45 Total 87,923 100.00 348.09 100.00 Includes insurance companies, nominee companies, banks, pension funds, other corporate bodies, limited and public limited companies Cautionary statement This document contains certain forward-looking statements with frameworks in which the group operates: the impact of legal or other respect to Severn Trents financial condition, results of operations proceedings against or which affect the group: and changes in and business and certain of Severn Trents plans and objectives with interest and exchange rates.
All written or verbal forward-looking statements, made in this Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identied document or made subsequently, which are attributable to Severn by their use of a date in the future or such words as anticipates, Trent or any other member of the group or persons acting on their aims, due, could, may, should, expects, believes, intends, behalf are expressly qualied in their entirety by the factors referred plans, targets, goal or estimates.
Severn Trent does not intend to update these forwardlooking statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative and looking statements.
40 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 This document is printed by CTD Sage Print on Mohawk Options 100% PC.
