Performance review Review of operations Water Purication and Operating Services In parts of the US, new regulations on ballast water Performance will come into force in 2006 07, and there are 2006 2005 good commercial opportunities ahead.
In January m m % 2006, Severn Trent fide Noras BalPure system was Turnover 267.8 208.1 28.7 the first commercial product to be selected by the profit 12.0 8.9 34.8 US Coast Guard and the US Environmental Protection Agency for validation at the Naval Research Laboratory Ballast Water Treatment Before interest, tax and exceptional items see note 4 Testing Facilities in Florida.
Operating Services Water Purication and Operating Services divisions This division comprises our Contract Operations Len Graziano both produced good results in 2005 06, increasing business, which carries out operating and President and CEO, turnover and profits.
Both divisions maintained maintenance contracts in the US: our Pipeline Water Purication their strategy of concentrating on higher margin Services business: and Severn Trent Water and Operating Services business and growth markets.
International STWI, which provides management and consultancy services in Europe and the The Water Purication Turnover in Water Purication and Operating developing world.
market will continue to Services was up by 28.7% to 267.8 million.
Around 62% of that arose in the US.
profit before Turnover in this division was up 39.6% to 163.8 grow, both in the US interest, tax and exceptional items increased to million.
profit before interest, tax and exceptional and UK, and in the 12.0 million, a rise of 34.8%.
The impact of items was up 67.2%.
These gures include Coast developing world exchange rates on the gures was immaterial.
to Coast Water C2C, the 25-year, 1 billion PFI contract with the UK Ministry of Defence, which Alongside the business concentration on achieving commenced on 30 March 2005. organic growth in 2005 06 was an intense focus on health and safety performance.
In the Contract Operations business in the US, we saw some significant contract wins and extensions.
Water Purication We also secured a three year contract in Jordan, The Water Purication divisions turnover rose by in the Middle East, our first contract in the region.
profit before interest, tax and exceptional items was up 11.2%.
Contract Operations continues to benefit from These gures now include turnover and profit from market conditions in the US, where tight scal the Metering Services business, formerly part of constraints mean that states and municipalities the Operating Services division.
are looking to outsourcing and public private partnership solutions for improving operational Metering Services performed well in 2005 06. performance.
Two trends made a major contribution to this: in the UK we saw rising demand for domestic On 2 June 2006 we signed heads of terms meter installation: and in the Middle East we to sell our interest in Aquan NV to the Flemish won large contracts in Abu Dhabi and Qatar to Government for approximately 30 million.
The supply our SmartMeter domestic meters.
sale is expected to be completed in July 2006.
Performance in the other businesses within the Outlook Water Purication division was slightly down on There are good growth prospects across all the previous year although they had some success, of Water Purication and Operating Services in particular the ltration and electro-chlorination businesses.
The Water Purication market will business.
Arsenic removal is a growing market for continue to grow, both in the US and UK, and in Severn Trent Services, and our partnership with the developing world.
Our product technologies Lanxess on SORB 33 arsenic removal technology and strong brand recognition will help us compete and Bayoxide E33 arsenic removal media gives vigorously in that market.
We also plan to increase us a strong market position.
In 2005 06 we were our direct presence in the global marketplace, delighted to have reached agreement on the expanding our sales and distribution channels.
extension of our partnership with Lanxess on arsenic removal in the industrial and municipal In Operating Services, we expect the positive water sector for another five years.
We expect to market conditions to continue.
We have a strong see further opportunities in arsenic removal, not position in the operating and maintenance just in our existing markets in the US and Europe, contracts market, and we intend to capitalise but in new markets like India.
on that position and grow our business further.
We also expect to see good results coming from the Coast to Coast contract in the UK, which will grow in terms of both importance and size.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 21
