Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 General information Shire plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as the Group or Shire develop and market products for specialty physicians.
The Group focuses on four therapeutic areas: ADHD, GI, HGT and Renal.
The Companys Ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange LSE.
On November 25, 2005 a Scheme of Arrangement, approved by the High Court of Justice in England and Wales became effective.
Under the terms of the Scheme, Shire replaced Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc SPG as the holding company of the Shire Group.
SPGs Ordinary shareholders received one Shire Ordinary share for each SPG Ordinary share held at 5.30pm on November 24, 2005.
Further details are set out in Note 3.
Exchangeable shares are included as part of share capital in the consolidated balance sheet to present a true and fair view of the consolidated Groups capital structure.
Further details are shown in Note 32.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1985 and domiciled in the UK.
The address of its registered ofce is Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, UK, RG24 8EP.
These accounts are presented in US Dollars as this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
At the date of authorization of these financial statements, there were Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective that have not been applied.
It is not anticipated that these Standards and Interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups future results.
2 significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial assets, borrowings and derivatives.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
b Consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity concerned, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date on which control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets exchanged, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identiable assets acquired together with liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used by the Group.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealized gains on transactions between companies in the Group are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealized losses on transactions between companies in the Group are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant inuence, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
significant inuence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but not the control or joint control over those policies.
In general this would be a shareholding in an entity entitling the Group to between 20% and 50% of the voting rights of that entity.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognized at cost.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognized in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognized in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any unsecured receivables due from that associate, the Group does not recognize such excess losses, unless, and to the extent it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
58 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 significant accounting policies continued Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognized as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Groups share of fair values of the identiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Unrealized gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associate.
Unrealized losses between the Group and its associates are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint ventures The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by the equity method.
c Foreign currency translation Functional and presentational currency Items included in the individual financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is the Groups presentational currency.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions in question.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at the year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the income statement.
Group companies The results and balance sheets of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentational currency are translated into the presentational currency as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date: income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the periods of the income statement unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : and all resulting exchange differences are recognized as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in entities in the Group are taken to shareholders equity.
When an entity of the Group is sold, any such exchange differences are recognized in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of an operation are treated as assets and liabilities of a company in the Group and translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date.
d Segment reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of components operating in other economic environments.
e Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of value added tax and similar taxes and trade discounts.
The principal components of the Groups turnover and their respective accounting treatments are set out below: Product sales revenue for the sales of products is recognized upon shipment to customers or at the time of delivery depending on the terms of sale.
Provisions for rebates, product returns and discounts to customers are provided for as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
The Group monitors and tracks the amount of sales deductions based on historical experience to estimate the amount of reduction to revenue.
Annual report and accounts for the 59 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 significant accounting policies continued Licensing and development fees licensing and development fees represent revenues derived from product out-licensing agreements and from contract research and development agreements: initial license fees received in connection with product out-licensing agreements, even where such fees are non-refundable and not creditable against future royalty payments, are deferred and recognized over the period of the license term, or the period of the associated collaborative assistance if that period is reasonably estimable.
In circumstances where initial license fees are not for a dened period, revenues are deferred until the period of associated collaborative assistance is either reasonably estimable or any performance obligations are inconsequential: thereafter revenues are deferred and recognized over the period to the expiration of the relevant patent to which the license relates: and revenue from contract research and development agreements is recognized as the services are performed.
Milestones during the term of certain research and development agreements and licensing agreements, the Group receives non-refundable milestones as certain technical targets are achieved.
Revenue is recognized upon achievement of such milestones.
the Group also receives non-refundable clinical milestones when certain targets are achieved during the clinical phases of development, such as the submission of clinical data to a regulatory authority.
These clinical milestones are recognized when receivable i. e. on completion of the relevant phase.
If milestone payments are creditable against future royalty payments, the milestones are deferred and released over the period in which the royalties are anticipated to be paid.
Royalty income royalty income relating to licensed technology is recognized when the licensee sells the underlying product.
The Group receives sales information from the licensee on a monthly basis.
For any period that the information is not available, the Group estimates sales amounts based on the historical product information.
Interest income interest income is recognized on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Dividend income dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is established.
f Sales deductions Rebates rebates primarily consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates with health-maintenance organizations.
These rebates are based on price differentials between a base price and the selling price.
As a result, rebates generally increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of the product as prices increase.
Provisions for rebates are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales, with estimates of future utilization derived from historical trends.
Returns the Group estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that will result in a return, based on historical trends and when applicable, specic factors affecting certain products at the balance sheet date.
The accrual is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
Coupons the Group uses coupons as a form of sales incentive.
An accrual is established based on the Groups expectation of the level of coupon redemption, using historical trends.
Discounts the Group offers cash discounts to customers for the early payment of receivables.
Those discounts are recorded as reductions to revenue and accounts receivable in the same period that the related sale is recorded.
Wholesaler chargebacks the Group has contractual agreements whereby it supplies certain products to third parties at predetermined prices.
Wholesalers acting as intermediaries in these transactions are reimbursed by the Group if the predetermined prices are less than the prices paid by the wholesaler to the Group.
Accruals for wholesaler chargebacks, which are based on historical trends, are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
60 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 significant accounting policies continued g Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost, less subsequent depreciation and impairment, except for land, which is shown at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benets associated with the item will ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Where the expenditure constitutes repairs and maintenance, it is charged to the income statement during the financial period in which it is incurred.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the difference between the cost of each asset and its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: Land Buildings 2050 years Furniture and ttings 310 years Equipment and other 310 years Motor vehicles 45 years Residual values and the useful lives of assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the income statement.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Properties in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognized impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs capitalized in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
h Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specic borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalization.
All other borrowing costs are recognized in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
i Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identiable assets of the acquired subsidiary associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognized immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill had been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
These cash generating units represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for management purposes.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss disposal.
Annual report and accounts for the 61 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 significant accounting policies continued Research and development Research expenditure is recognized as an expense as incurred.
Internal development costs are recognized as intangible assets when an asset is created that can be identied, it is probable that future economic benets will ow to the Group and costs can be measured reliably.
The Group considers that regulatory and other uncertainties inherent in the development of new products mean that such criteria are not met until regulatory approval of the product and therefore, internal development costs incurred prior to regulatory approval are expensed as incurred.
No significant direct development costs are incurred post regulatory approval.
Where the recognition criteria are met, internal development costs are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives from product launch.
Payments to in-license products and compounds from third parties, generally taking the form of up-front payments and milestones, are capitalized.
Development costs previously recognized as an expense are not recognized as an asset in subsequent periods.
Intellectual property Intellectual property, including trademarks, is recognized at purchase cost and amortized in equal annual instalments over the estimated useful life of the product post its launch generally not exceeding 20 years.
Intellectual property related to a marketed product can have a useful life exceeding 20 years when the Group believes that the product is well established in its market.
Computer software The costs of acquiring computer software licenses and implementing the specic software are capitalized.
These costs are amortized over their estimated useful lives three to five years.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognized as an expense as incurred.
j Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset for which the estimates of future cash ows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognized as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease to the extent that a revaluation surplus exists.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognized.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognized as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
k Financial assets The Group classies its investments in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-tomaturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classication depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the classication of its investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset is classied in this latter category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classied as current assets if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realized within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The Group allocates derivatives to this category.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classied as non-current assets.
Held-to-maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments and xed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
There are no investments allocated to this category.
62 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 significant accounting policies continued Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classied in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The Group allocates all its equity investments which are not investments in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures to this category.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognized on trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognized at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are derecognized when the rights to receive cash ows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealized gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classied as available-for-sale are recognized in equity.
When securities classied as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not active and for unlisted securities, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques unless fair value cannot be reliably measured.
In this case such unquoted equity instruments are measured at cost.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classied as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognized in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognized in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognized in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
l Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Currently, the Group does not designate any of its derivatives as a hedging instrument and therefore none of the Groups derivatives qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized immediately in the income statement.
m Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalized at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the future minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the underlying liability to the lessor and the associated finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in Borrowings.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the assets useful life and the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
n Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value except when arising on business combination.
Cost is determined using the firstin-first-out FIFO method.
The cost of nished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
o Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
p Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at cost.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Restricted cash is carried in the balance sheet at cost.
Restricted cash comprises reserve funds required for financial guarantee contracts and collateral against certain leased assets.
Annual report and accounts for the 63 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 significant accounting policies continued q Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds other than where the issue of new shares or options relates to the acquisition of a business, in which case such incremental costs are included in the cost of acquisition as part of the purchase consideration.
Where any company in the Group purchases Shire plcs equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
r Borrowings Borrowings are recognized initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortized cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognized in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Convertible loan notes are regarded as compound instruments, consisting of a liability component and an equity component.
The fair value of the liability portion of a convertible bond is determined using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortized cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option.
This is recognized and included in shareholders equity, net of income tax effects.
Borrowings are classied as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.
s Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current and deferred tax.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognized for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilized.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognized if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit not the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realized.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
64 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 significant accounting policies continued t Employee benets Retirement obligations dened contribution plans The Group operates personal dened contribution plans for employees.
A dened contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays xed percentage contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benets relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognized as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available.
Retirement obligations dened benefit plans The Group operates dened benefit plans SERPs for certain senior employees.
The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect of these plans shown in Note 29 is the present value of the dened benefit obligations at the balance sheet date.
Assets relating to a closed dened benefit plan are held in a Rabbi Trust, the legal form of which is such that the assets held to cover the pension liabilities are available to the general creditors of the Group on winding up and are therefore shown on the balance sheet Note 26.
Changes in the present value of the benefit obligation are recognized in the income statement.
Further information on the Groups dened benefit plans can be found in Note 31 Retirement obligations.
Share-based compensation The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after November 7, 2002 that were unvested at December 31, 2004.
The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is calculated using the Black-Scholes model for awards without market based performance conditions.
Awards with market based performance conditions are valued using a binomial model.
In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, the resulting cost is recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the options.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reect expected and actual levels of options vesting.
The Group also provides employees with the option to purchase Ordinary shares of Shire: under the Sharesave Scheme at an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to employees: and under the Employee Share Purchase Plan at an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Termination benets Termination benets are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The Group recognizes termination benets when it is demonstrably committed to either: i terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or ii providing termination benets as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benets falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
u Provisions Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognized when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: the amount can be reliably estimated and when a detailed formal plan for the restructuring has been communicated to affected parties.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination payments.
Provisions are not recognized for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognized even if the likelihood of an outow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
v Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognized as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
This occurs in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders, or in the case of an interim dividend, when the dividend is paid.
Annual report and accounts for the 65 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 significant accounting policies continued w Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classied as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than continuing use.
This condition is considered met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classication.
x Government grants Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to profit and loss over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
3 Change in reporting entity On November 25, 2005 Shire plc, a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales, became the holding company of Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc SPG pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement under Section 425 of the UK Companies Act 1985 that was approved by the High Court of Justice in England and Wales and the shareholders of SPG the Scheme of Arrangement.
Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement, Ordinary shares, each having a nominal value of 3.50, of Shire Shire Ordinary shares were exchanged for Ordinary shares, each having a nominal value of 0.05 of SPG SPG Ordinary shares, on a one-for-one basis.
As a result of the Scheme of Arrangement, SPG is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shire and has been re-registered as a private company under the name Shire Pharmaceuticals Limited.
The Shire Ordinary shares carry substantially the same rights as did the SPG Ordinary shares.
The Scheme of Arrangement did not involve any payment for the new Shire Ordinary shares.
Shires Board of Directors, management and corporate governance arrangements immediately following the Scheme of Arrangement were the same as SPG immediately before the effectiveness of the Scheme of Arrangement.
The consolidated assets and liabilities of Shire immediately after the Scheme of Arrangement were the same as the consolidated assets and liabilities of SPG immediately prior thereto.
In consequence of the implementation of the Scheme of Arrangement, American Depositary Shares ADSs representing Ordinary shares of SPG were replaced by ADSs representing Ordinary shares of Shire on a one-for-one basis.
Shire was incorporated on June 27, 2005.
Prior to November 25, 2005 Shire had not commenced trading or made any profits or trading losses.
On November 28, 2005 the High Court of Justice in England and Wales approved a reduction of Shires share capital to take effect on November 29, 2005 when the nominal value of each Shire Ordinary share was reduced from 350 pence to 5 pence.
This reduction increased the distributable reserves potentially available to Shire to approximately $2.95 billion, which the Directors of Shire can utilise for future dividend payments at their discretion.
The corporate restructuring has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition.
Accordingly, the historical financial statements prior to the reorganization are labelled as those of Shire, but represent the operations of SPG.
For periods prior to the corporate restructuring, the equity of Shire represents the historical equity of SPG.
After the Scheme of Arrangement, shareholders equity represents the equity of Shire.
The effect on share capital, the share premium account, the capital reserve and other reserve is shown in the Shareholders funds and statement of shareholders equity table in Note 35.
The capital reduction has resulted in a new distributable reserve the Capital Reduction Reserve.
The increase in the value of common stock at January 1, 2005 from $36.1 million to $41.8 million on restatement is due to differences between the historic exchange rates used to convert SPGs Sterling denominated nominal share capital into US Dollars, and the exchange rate at the time of the corporate restructuring.
Earnings per share are unaffected by the reorganization.
All SPG stock options granted to Directors and employees under stock option plans that were in existence immediately prior to the Scheme of Arrangement were exchangeable for stock options in Shire on a one-for-one basis with no change in any of the terms or conditions.
The number of stock options for which this exchange did not take place was not material.
66 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4 Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk and price risk : cash ow and fair value interest rate risk: credit risk: and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to economically hedge certain risk exposures.
Financial Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Group Treasury identies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
All Group Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of policies and procedures reviewed and approved by the Board.
As a matter of policy, the Group does not undertake speculative transactions that would increase currency or interest rate exposure.
a Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Groups net income and financial position, as expressed in US Dollars, are exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates against the US Dollar.
The main trading currencies of the Group are the US Dollar, Pounds Sterling, the Euro and the Canadian Dollar.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions, recognized assets, liabilities and net investments in subsidiaries are denominated in a currency that is not the subsidiarys functional currency.
The exposure to foreign exchange is managed and monitored by Group Treasury.
Exposures are generally managed through natural hedging via the currency denomination of cash balances.
As at December 31, 2006 the Group had 18 outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts with a total principal amount of $98.3 million 2005: $206.0 million to manage the foreign exchange risk associated with inter-company loans.
As at December 31, 2006 there were net unrealized losses of $8.1 million 2005: $2.5 million gain on these contracts.
Price risk As of December 31, 2006 the Group has $31.6 million 2005: $34.0 million of financial assets comprising equity investments in private companies, publicly quoted equities, institutional and managed cash funds and commercial paper.
The publicly quoted assets are exposed to market risk.
No financial instruments or derivatives have been employed to hedge this risk.
b Cash ow and fair value interest rate risk The Groups income and operating cash ows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
In 2006 the average interest rate received on cash and liquid investments was approximately 4.7% per annum 2005: 2.9%.
The largest proportion of investments was in US Dollar liquidity funds.
No financial instruments or derivatives have been employed to hedge this exposure.
c Credit risk The Groups revenues from product sales are mainly derived from agreements with major pharmaceutical companies and relationships with pharmaceutical wholesale distributors and retail pharmacy chains.
For the year to December 31, 2006 there were three customers in the US who accounted for 71% of the Groups total revenues.
However, such clients typically have significant cash resources and as such the risk from concentration of credit is considered minimal.
The Group has taken positive steps to manage any credit risk associated with these transactions and operates clearly dened credit evaluation procedures.
Financial instruments that potentially expose the Group to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of short-term cash investments and trade accounts receivable.
Excess cash is invested in short-term money market instruments, including bank term deposits, money market and liquidity funds and other debt securities from a variety of financial institutions with strong credit ratings.
These investments typically bear minimal credit risk.
d Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities, and the ability to close out market positions.
The Group ordinarily nances its activities through cash generated from operating activities, private and public offerings of equity and debt securities and the proceeds of asset or investment disposals.
The Group anticipates that its operating cash ow together with available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet its anticipated future operating expenses, capital expenditures and debt service and lease obligations as they become due over the next 12 months.
Annual report and accounts for the 67 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 Critical accounting estimates and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
a Estimated impairment of goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in Note 2 i.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates.
The Group uses discounted cash ow models to estimate value in use representing the recoverable amounts of cash-generating units, which require assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash inows and outows, risk, the cost of capital and terminal values.
Each of these assumptions is significant to the value of the intangible asset.
A prolonged general economic downturn, new products, loss of IP protection, sustained government pressure on prices and, specically, competitive pricing, could create an imbalance of industry supply and demand, or otherwise diminish volumes or profits.
Such events, combined with changes in interest rates, could adversely affect the Groups valuation of the estimated future net cash ows generated by its cash-generating units.
As a result, future operating results could be materially and adversely affected by additional impairment charges related to the recoverability of goodwill.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was $1,805.9 million, after an impairment loss of $271.9 million 2005: $527.0 million was recognized during 2006.
Details of the impairment loss calculation are provided in Note 19. b Valuation of intangible assets general The Group has previously acquired and continues to acquire significant intangible assets, recorded at acquisition cost and subsequently amortized over the assets useful economic life.
Managements estimate of the useful life considers, inter alia, the following factors: the expected use of the asset by the Group: any legal, regulatory, or contractual provisions that may limit the useful life and the effects of demand: competition: levels of maintenance expenditure required: and other economic factors such as the stability of the industry, known technological advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels.
There is a high occurrence of transactions involving the transfer of intangible assets between companies in the health care eld, and valuations are usually based on discounted cash ow analysis.
The Group uses a discounted cash ow model to value intangible assets acquired through business combinations, which requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash inows and outows, risk, the cost of capital, and terminal values.
The Group engages independent valuation experts who review critical assumptions for significant acquisitions of intangibles.
The Group reviews intangible assets for impairment periodically in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Such events, combined with changes in interest rates, could adversely affect the Groups valuation of the estimated future net cash ows generated by its intangible assets.
As a result, future operating results could be materially and adversely affected by impairment charges related to the recoverability of intangible assets.
In the year to December 31, 2006 changes to the estimated future net cash ows from certain products resulted in a $1.1 million impairment of intangible assets 2005: $4.4 million.
In the year to December 31, 2005 the Group decreased the estimated life of a product, which resulted in an additional amortization charge of $1.7 million in the year to December 31, 2005 and $5.9 million in the year to December 31, 2006.
The total carrying amount of intangible assets, excluding goodwill, at the balance sheet date was $1,747.8 million.
Further details of intangible asset movements in the year can be found in Note 20. c Valuation of intangible assets TKT acquisition The fair values of all of the identiable intangible assets acquired through the acquisition of TKT have been determined using an income approach on a project-by-project basis, by independent valuation specialists.
This method starts with a forecast of all of the expected future net cash ows either generated or saved as a result of ownership of the intellectual property, the customer relationships and the other intangible assets.
These cash ows are then adjusted to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reects the risk factors associated with the cash ow streams.
68 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 Critical accounting estimates and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued The forecast of future cash ows requires various assumptions to be made, including: revenue that is reasonably likely to result from the sale of products including the estimated number of units to be sold, estimated selling prices, estimated market penetration and estimated market share and year-over-year growth rates over the product life cycles: royalty or license fees saved by owning the intellectual property associated with the products: cost of sales for the products using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: sales and marketing expense using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: general and administrative expenses: research and development expenses: the estimated life of the products: and the tax amortization benefit available to a market participant purchasing the assets piecemeal.
The valuation of intangible assets requires estimation of tax amortization benefit that a market participant could obtain on acquisition irrespective of whether a tax benefit is available to the Group through the form of the business combination.
The valuations are based on information at the time of the acquisition and the expectations and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by the Groups management.
No assurance can be given, however, that the underlying assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as projected.
For these reasons, among others, the actual cash ows may vary from forecasts of future cash ows.
As a result, future operating results could be materially and adversely affected by additional impairment charges related to the recoverability of intangible assets.
d Valuation of financial assets and equity accounted investments The Group has investments in certain public and private pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and partnerships.
These investments are designated as either available-for-sale, joint venture investments or associate companies.
Those investments designated as available-for-sale are held at fair value, in accordance with IAS 39, with any unrealized movements in fair value being recognized directly within equity.
Associates and joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method, with the Groups share or profit or loss after tax presented as a separate item on the face of the income statement.
The carrying values of these investments are periodically reviewed for impairments whenever certain events or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of an investment exceeds the fair market value of the investment.
In instances when the review indicates that there is impairment, the Group writes down the investment to its fair market value, recording an impairment charge in the income statement.
During the year to December 31, 2006 Shire recorded impairment charges in respect of available for sale investments of $2.1 million 2005: $2.0 million.
e Sales deductions Sales deductions consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid and other government agencies, contractual rebates with health-maintenance organizations HMOs, product returns, sales discounts including trade discounts and distribution service fees, wholesaler chargebacks, and allowances for the coupon sampling program.
These deductions are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales with estimates of future utilization derived from historical experience adjusted to reect known changes in the factors that impact such reserves.
The Group has the following significant categories of sales deductions, all of which involve estimates and judgements which the Group considers to be critical accounting estimates, and require the Group to use information from external sources: Annual report and accounts for the 69 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 Critical accounting estimates and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Medicaid and HMO Rebates Statutory rebates to state Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates to HMOs under managed care programs are based on statutory or negotiated discounts to the selling price.
Medicaid rebates generally increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of the product if prices increase faster than ination.
As it can take up to six months for information to reach the Group on actual usage of the Groups products in managed care and Medicaid programs and on the total discounts to be reimbursed, the Group maintains reserves for amounts payable under these programs relating to sold products.
The amount of the reserve is based on historical experience of rebates, the timing of payments, the level of reimbursement claims, changes in prices both normal selling prices and statutory or negotiated prices, changes in prescription demand patterns, and the levels of inventory in the distribution channel.
Shires estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution channel are based on product-by-product inventory data provided by wholesalers including data provided by wholesalers as part of the new fee for service agreements and third-party prescription data such as IMS Health National Prescription Audit data.
Revisions or clarification of guidelines from Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services CMS related to state Medicaid and other government program reimbursement practices with retroactive application can result in changes to managements estimates of the rebates reported in prior periods.
However, since the prices of the Shires products are xed at the time of sale and the quantum of rebates is therefore reasonably determinable at the outset of each transaction, these factors would not impact the recording of revenues in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
The accrual estimation process for Medicaid and HMO rebates involves in each case a number of interrelating assumptions, which vary for each combination of product and Medicaid agency or HMO.
Accordingly, it would not be meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any individual assumption or uncertainty.
However, Shire does not believe that the effect of uncertainties, as a whole, signicantly impacts the Groups financial condition or results of operations.
As at the balance sheet date accruals for Medicaid and HMO rebates were $126.4 million in 2006 and $105.4 million in 2005, representing 8% of net product sales in each year.
Product returns The Group typically accepts customer product returns in the following circumstances: a expiration of shelf life, b product damaged while in the possession of the Group, or c under sales terms that allow for unconditional return guaranteed sales.
The Group estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that will result in a return by considering relevant factors, including: past product returns activity: the duration of time taken for products to be returned: the estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel: product recalls and discontinuances: the shelf life of products: the launch of new drugs or new formulations: and the loss of patent protection or new competition.
Shires estimate of the level of inventory in the distribution channel is based on product-by-product inventory data provided by wholesalers, thirdparty prescription data and, for some product return provisions, market research of retail pharmacies.
Returns for new products are more difficult for the Group to estimate than for established products.
For shipments made to support the commercial launch of a new product which are typically guaranteed sales, the Group cannot reliably estimate expected returns, and the Groups policy is therefore to defer recognition of the sales revenue until there is evidence of end-patient acceptance primarily third-party prescription data.
For shipments after launch under standard terms i. e. not guaranteed sales, the Groups initial estimates of sales return accruals are primarily based on the historical sales returns experience of similar products shortly after launch.
Once sufficient historical data on actual returns of the product are available, the returns provision is based on this data and any other relevant factors as noted above.
70 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 Critical accounting estimates and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued The accrual estimation process for product returns involves in each case a number of interrelating assumptions, which vary for each combination of product and customer.
As at the balance sheet date, provisions for product returns were $36.5 million in 2006 and $31.8 million in 2005 representing 2% of net product sales in each year.
Sales coupon accrual For certain products, primarily ADDERALL XR and DAYTRANA, the Group uses coupons as a form of sales incentive.
These coupons reimburse part or all of the cost of the first prescription.
Each coupon can only be used once and coupons typically expire three to 15 months after the date of issuance.
The Groups management calculates an accrual for the estimated value of coupons that will be redeemed against sold products, based on the rebate value per coupon, the timing and volume of coupon distributions, the estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel and expected coupon redemption rates, using historical trends and experience.
Shires estimate of the level of inventory in the distribution channel is based on product-by-product inventory data provided by wholesalers and third-party prescription data.
Shire believes that historical redemption rates, adjusted for known changes in coupon programs such as length of coupon life and redemption conditions are an appropriate basis for predicting future redemption rates.
For coupon programs open at December 31, 2006 the redemption rates assumed by Shire range between 15% and 35% of coupons distributed depending on the life of the coupons.
A one percentage point increase in estimated coupon redemption rates would increase the provision at December 31, 2006 by $0.2 million.
At December 31, 2006 the accrual for coupon redemptions was $13.0 million 2005: $5.2 million.
The accrual levels in each year uctuate according to the timing and volume of coupon distributions, in addition to changes in estimated redemption rates.
For rebates, returns and sales coupons the actual experience and the level of these deductions to revenue may deviate from the estimate.
Shire reviews its estimates every quarter and may be required to adjust the estimate in a subsequent period.
Historically, actual payments have not varied signicantly from the reserves provided.
f Income taxes The Group operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are subject to audit and adjustment by local tax authorities.
Because the Group operates globally, the nature of the audit items is often very complex and subject to change and the amounts at issue can be substantial.
The Group uses internal expertise and professional advisors to minimize audit adjustments where possible.
Shire develops best estimates of income taxes payable for probable liabilities using experience, judgement and assistance from professional advisors.
Estimates are rened as additional information becomes known.
Any outcome upon settlement that differs from Shires best estimate may result in additional or lower tax expense in future periods.
Income taxes payable increased from $94.4 million at December 31, 2005 to $295.3 million at December 31, 2006 primarily as a result of additional tax contingencies recognized in relation to ongoing tax audits.
The Group also has significant deferred tax assets due to net operating losses NOLs in the US, UK and other countries.
The realisation of these assets is not assured and is dependent on the generation of sufficient taxable income in the future.
Management has exercised judgement in determining the extent of the realisation of these losses based upon estimates of future taxable income in the various jurisdictions in which these NOLs exist.
Where there is an expectation that on the balance of probabilities there will not be sufficient taxable profits to utilise these NOLs a provision is made against these deferred tax assets.
If actual events differ from managements estimates, or to the extent that these estimates are adjusted in the future, any changes to the valuation allowance could materially impact the Groups financial position and results.
At December 31, 2006 the Group had gross deferred tax assets of $519.9 million 2005: $414.3 million.
g Litigation The Group accounts for litigation losses in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Under IAS 37, provisions are recorded for probable litigation losses when management is able to reliably estimate the loss.
The amount recognized as a provision is managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date: in other words the amount that an entity would rationally pay to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date or transfer it to a third party at that time.
These estimates are developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known and the estimates are rened each accounting period, as additional information becomes known.
In instances where there is a continuous range of possible outcomes and each point in that range is as likely as any other, the mid-point of the range is recorded as a loss.
The best estimates are reviewed quarterly and the estimates are changed when expectations are revised.
Any outcome upon settlement that deviates from the Groups best estimate may result in an additional expense in a future accounting period.
There were no significant changes in estimates in respect of product liability claim provisions in the year to December 31, 2006.
Annual report and accounts for the 71 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 Critical accounting estimates and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued h TKT acquisition The acquisition of TKT has been accounted for as a purchase business combination in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
Under the purchase method of accounting, the Group has measured the cost of the business combination as the aggregate of the assets acquired, the liabilities assumed from TKT at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values, and any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty apart from the valuation of intangible assets, including the valuation of in-process R&D acquired see Note 5 c include the valuation of inventory acquired with TKT and the amount payable to those TKT shareholders who have asserted appraisal rights in relation to the Groups acquisition of TKT on July 27, 2005 are based on managements best estimates.
In respect of the inventory acquired with TKT, nished goods were fair valued at estimated selling price less the sum of costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance for the selling effort of the Group.
The Groups management assumed that a reasonable profit allowance for the selling effort of the acquiring entity would be 3% of sales proceeds expected at the acquisition date.
This is due to the minimal sales effort required by Shire as acquiror to realize sales of the acquired inventory, given the small size of the existing prescription population to whom specialized physicians prescribe REPLAGAL, the frequency and duration of treatment required, and low levels of patient switching, together with the low cost and complexity of distribution.
The relevance of this assumption is that it has an impact on the recorded cost of product sales for acquired REPLAGAL inventory.
For every one percentage point increase in the profit allowance percentage for the selling effort, our cost of product sales in the year to December 31, 2006 would have reduced by approximately $0.6 million.
All REPLAGAL inventories acquired as part of the TKT acquisition had been consumed by December 31, 2006.
Work in-process was fair valued on the same basis less costs to complete.
The valuation of acquired work in process required Shires management to estimate the level of completion reached at the acquisition date.
This required the exercise of judgement in ascribing value creation to different phases of a complex biological manufacturing process.
The relevance of this estimate is that it has an impact on the recorded cost of product sales for acquired REPLAGAL inventory.
For every one percentage point increase in the assumed percentage level of completion, our cost of product sales in the year to December 31, 2006 would have increased by $0.5 million.
All REPLAGAL work in process acquired as part of the TKT acquisition had been consumed by December 31, 2006.
The fair value of certain pre-acquisition contingencies, in particular those relating to the Purported Class Action Shareholder Suit see Note 37 are yet to be determined.
The Group currently does not have sufficient information to measure the contingencies reliably.
i Share-based compensation Shire plc has historically granted options to the Groups directors and employees over Ordinary shares under six stock option plans.
On November 28, 2005 the Ordinary shareholders of Shire plc approved the adoption of the Shire Plc Portfolio Share Plan Parts A and B, a new share-based compensation plan, which provides for stock settled share appreciation rights and performance share awards to be made to the directors and employees over Ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares.
Further details on these plans can be found in Note 33 to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report.
The Group accounts for share-based compensation in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The Group measures share-based compensation cost for awards classied as equity at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award, and recognizes the cost as an expense on a straight-line basis net of estimated forfeitures over the employee requisite service period.
The Group measures share-based compensation cost for awards classied as liabilities at fair value, which is re-measured at the end of each reporting period.
The Group estimates the fair value of share-based awards without market-based performance conditions using a Black-Scholes valuation model and awards with market-based performance conditions are valued using a binomial valuation model.
Several critical assumptions are made in the determination of the Groups share-based compensation cost.
The Group believes that the most critical assumptions are the expected life of the award and the weighted average volatility of the Shires shares.
Other assumptions made by the Group in respect of the determination of share-based compensation cost include the risk free rate, the expected dividend yield and the expected forfeiture rate.
The Groups estimate of the expected life of the award is based on historical trends of employee exercise behaviour.
The Group reviews these trends at the time of each new grant for equity classied awards, and at the end of each reporting period for liability classied awards to ensure that the estimated life of the award is consistent with historical exercise behaviour.
The weighted average volatility is based upon historical share price data of the Companys shares for the requisite expected life of the awards.
Given the related nature of each of the assumptions underlying the valuation of share-based payment awards, it would not be meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for each individual assumption.
The Group believes that the valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the underlying assumptions are appropriate in estimating the fair values of Shires share-based awards.
Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by the Group under IFRS 2.
72 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6 Segment information Primary reporting format business segments For management purposes, the Group is organised into two main reporting segments pharmaceutical products and royalties.
Certain revenues and profits from product licensing, development and other items are not included within these two segments and are therefore presented as unallocated.
Pharmaceutical products Royalties Unallocated Group 2006 $ million $ million $ million $ million Continuing operations Revenue external customers 1,535.8 242.9 17.8 1,796.5 Segment result: Operating loss profit 14.6 87.7 17.8 90.9 Investment revenues 50.5 50.5 Finance costs 27.0 27.0 Other income 9.4 9.4 Share of post tax loss profit from: Associates 0.5 0.5 Joint ventures 6.3 6.3 Loss profit before tax 14.6 87.7 56.5 129.6 Taxation 114.0 114.0 Loss profit for the year from continuing operations 14.6 87.7 57.5 15.6 Discontinued operations profit on disposal of operations 40.6 profit before income tax 40.6 Taxation profit for the year from discontinued operations 40.6 Pharmaceutical products Royalties Unallocated Group i Restated 2005 $ million $ million $ million $ million Continuing operations Revenue external customers 1,327.7 242.9 28.7 1,599.3 Segment result: Operating loss profit 58.8 140.1 23.3 175.6 Investment revenues 35.3 35.3 Finance costs 12.4 12.4 Other income 9.9 9.9 Share of post tax loss profit from: Associates 6.3 6.3 Joint ventures 5.3 5.3 Loss profit before tax 58.8 140.1 55.1 143.8 Taxation 38.5 38.5 Loss profit for the year from continuing operations 58.8 140.1 16.6 182.3 Discontinued operations profit on disposal of operations 3.1 profit before income tax 3.1 Taxation profit for the year from discontinued operations 3.1 i Restated to reect the allocation of the cost of the acquisition of TKT.
Annual report and accounts for the 73 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6 Segment information continued Primary reporting format business segments Pharmaceutical products Royalties Unallocated Group 2006 $ million $ million $ million $ million Balance Sheet Segment assets 3,611.4 772.5 4,383.9 Investment in equity accounted: Joint ventures 6.5 6.5 Associates 17.7 17.7 i Group assets 1,288.5 1,288.5 Total assets 3,611.4 772.5 1,312.7 5,696.6 Segment liabilities 646.0 646.0 i Group liabilities 905.2 905.2 Total liabilities 646.0 905.2 1,551.2 Other segment items Capital expenditure 250.9 250.9 Depreciation 40.4 40.4 Amortization 81.5 81.5 Impairment charges 118.3 155.2 273.5 Share-based payments 20.4 20.4 Provisions 7.4 7.4 Reorganization costs i Group assets comprise cash and income tax assets.
Group liabilities comprise income tax liabilities, borrowings and the liability to dissenting shareholders.
Primary reporting format business segments Pharmaceutical products Royalties Unallocated Group i Restated 2005 $ million $ million $ million $ million Balance Sheet Segment assets 3,600.3 926.3 4,526.6 Investment in equity accounted: Joint ventures 6.0 6.0 Associates 17.1 17.1 ii Group assets 787.6 787.6 Total assets 3,600.3 926.3 810.7 5,337.3 Segment liabilities 501.7 501.7 ii Group liabilities 754.3 754.3 Total liabilities 501.7 754.3 1,256.0 Other segment items Capital expenditure 638.5 638.5 Depreciation 23.0 23.0 Amortization 51.3 51.3 Impairment charges 154.7 383.1 537.8 Share-based payments 27.4 27.4 Provisions 20.4 20.4 Reorganization costs 2.3 2.3 i Restated to reect the allocation of the cost of the acquisition of TKT.
See Note 13. ii Group assets comprise cash and income tax assets.
74 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6 Segment information continued Secondary reporting format geographical segments The Groups operations are located in the US and Canada North America and throughout the rest of the world primarily the UK and other European Union countries.
The revenue analysis in the following table is based on the location of the customer, which is not materially different from location where the assets are located.
Capital expenditure is allocated based on where the assets are located.
Capital expenditures on plant, property and Segment equipment and Revenue assets intangible assets 2006 $ million $ million $ million Continuing operations North America 1,341.0 2,844.4 221.0 Rest of the world 455.5 1,539.5 29.9 1,796.5 4,383.9 250.9 Investment in equity accounted: Joint ventures 6.5 Associates 17.7 i Group assets 1,288.5 Total 1,796.5 5,696.6 250.9 i Group assets comprise cash and income tax assets.
Secondary reporting format geographical segments Capital expenditures on plant, property and Segment equipment and Revenue assets intangible assets i Restated 2005 $ million $ million $ million Continuing operations North America 1,233.5 2,667.7 616.6 Rest of the world 365.8 1,859.0 21.9 1,599.3 4,526.7 638.5 Investment in equity accounted: Joint ventures 5.9 Associates 17.1 ii Group assets 787.6 Total 1,599.3 5,337.3 638.5 Analysis of revenue by category 2006 2005 $ million $ million Continuing operations Product sales 1,535.8 1,327.7 Royalties 242.9 242.9 Licensing and development 5.8 15.0 Other revenues 12.0 13.7 1,796.5 1,599.3 Investment revenues 50.5 35.3 1,847.0 1,634.6 Discontinued operations Total revenue including investment revenues 1,847.0 1,634.6 For discontinued operations see Note 16. i Restated to reect the allocation of the cost of the acquisition of TKT.
Annual report and accounts for the 75 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 7 profit loss for the year Restated 2006 2005 $ million $ million The following items have been included in arriving at the profit loss from continuing operations: Staff costs: wages and salaries 306.6 234.4 social security costs 25.0 20.7 Pensions costs dened contribution plans 13.2 13.5 Pensions costs dened benefit plans 1.9 0.6 Share-based payments to Directors and employees 20.4 27.4 367.1 296.6 Inventories: Cost of inventories recognized as expense included in cost of sales 198.2 184.3 Inventory write down included in cost of sales 19.8 9.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: Owned assets 36.9 20.1 Under finance leases 3.5 2.9 Impairment of goodwill 271.9 527.0 Impairment of intangible assets 1.1 4.4 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.5 6.4 Amortization of intangible assets included in selling, general and administrative expenses all acquired 81.5 51.3 Operating lease rentals: Property, plant and machinery 18.5 14.4 Other 1.3 2.6 profit on disposal of financial assets 4.1 Impairment of financial assets 2.1 2.0 Net foreign exchange gains losses 3.1 1.4 Reorganization costs 2.3 Integration costs 5.6 11.7 Auditors remuneration for audit services 2.9 5.1 Accounts payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP and their associates by the Group in respect of non-audit services were $1.6 million 2005: $2.8 million.
A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below.
2006 2005 Year to December 31, $ million $ million i Audit fees Group 1.9 2.1 Subsidiaries 0.7 0.6 ii Audit-related fees 0.3 2.4 iii Tax fees 1.1 2.1 iv All other fees 0.5 0.7 Total fees 4.5 7.9 i Audit fees consisted of audit work only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as statutory audits and included the audit of managements assessment that the Group maintained effective internal control over 10-K financial reporting and the audit of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over 10-K financial reporting.
ii Audit related fees consist of work generally only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as procedures relating to regulatory lings.
iii Tax fees consisted principally of assistance with matters related to compliance, planning and advice in various tax jurisdictions.
iv All other fees relate to assisting the remuneration committee and corporate responsibility.
A description of the work of the audit committee is set out in the Audit Compliance and Risk Committee Report on pages 39 to 40.
The loss for the financial year under UK GAAP dealt with in the accounts of the Company was $15.4 million 2005: $0.4 million.
As provided by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no profit and loss account is presented in respect of the Company accounts shown on pages 115 to 122.
76 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 8 Gain on sale of product rights During the year, the Group disposed of its ADDERALL immediate-release mixed amphetamine salts product to Duramed a subsidiary of Barr for $63.0 million in cash.
The sale completed on September 29, 2006.
As a result the Group has recognized a pre-tax gain of $63.0 million within income from continuing operations.
9 Investment revenues 2006 2005 $ million $ million Interest on bank deposits and managed cash funds 50.5 35.3 10 Finance costs 2006 2005 $ million $ million Interest expense and similar charges: Obligations under finance leases 0.5 0.4 Interest provision for dissenting shareholders see Note 13 24.6 7.7 Other interest payable 1.9 4.3 27.0 12.4 All items relate materially to continuing operations.
11 Other income expense, net 2006 2005 $ million $ million Impairment of long-term investments 2.1 2.0 GeneChem Funds management fee 4.6 4.3 Gain on sale of drug formulation business 3.6 Gain on sale of available for sale security 3.9 Foreign exchange 3.1 1.4 Other 3.8 1.5 9.4 9.9 12 Taxation 2006 2005 $ million $ million Analysis of charge in the year Current tax charge continuing operations 223.0 70.1 Deferred tax income Note 22 continuing operations 109.0 31.6 Taxation 114.0 38.5 UK Corporation tax is calculated at 30% 2005: 30% of the estimated assessable profit in the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Annual report and accounts for the 77 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 12 Taxation continued The effective tax rate for the year was 88.0%.
The difference between this and the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30.0% is explained below: Restated 2006 2005 $ million $ million profit loss on ordinary activities before tax 129.6 143.8 % % Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2005: 30% 30.0 30.0 Effects of: Adjustments to tax in respect of prior periods 16.6 0.4 Permanent differences 51.7 29.4 Movement on deferred tax 70.2 21.9 Different tax rates on overseas earnings 129.1 1.6 Other 4.4 2.2 Non deductible goodwill 63.0 109.9 Change in opening tax rates 1.6 Effective tax rate for the year 88.0 26.8 The Group earns profits in various territories, which have different tax rates compared to the UK.
The tax expense for the year to December 31, 2006 consists of a UK taxation credit of $43.4 million 2005: $50.1 million credit and overseas tax expenses of $157.4 million 2005: $88.6 million expense.
The effective tax rate for the year to December 31, 2006 was 88.0% 2005: 26.8%.
The effective rate has increased as a result of an increase in the current tax charge, offset by an increase in deferred tax credits.
The increase in the current tax charge was primarily a result of additional tax contingencies of $187 million recognized in relation to ongoing tax audits included in difference in tax rates above, partially offset by the decrease in non-deductible goodwill impairment in the current year.
The increase in the deferred tax credit is due to increases in deferred tax assets primarily as a result of a reversal of valuation allowances following changes in estimates as to the realization, and by the crystallization of additional losses.
No tax deduction is available on the impairment of goodwill that was created on the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. 13 Business acquisitions TKT acquisition On July 27, 2005 the Group completed its acquisition of TKT in an all-cash transaction.
The acquisition was effected by merging a wholly owned subsidiary of Shire with and into TKT, with TKT continuing as the surviving corporation.
As consideration, the Group paid to TKTs stockholders $37 in cash for each share of TKT common stock outstanding at the time of the acquisition, less any applicable withholding taxes.
The total cash consideration for the acquisition of TKT is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, subject to change as may be required by the appraisal rights process see below.
As at December 31, 2006 shareholders owning approximately 24.8 million TKT shares being 69% of the 36.2 million TKT shares outstanding at the acquisition date had accepted the offer and $917.9 million has been paid to them: $83.9 million was paid in connection with TKT stock options: and $170.1 million in connection with convertible notes outstanding at the date of acquisition.
These amounts were paid in the year to December 31, 2005.
In connection with the acquisition, as at December 31, 2006 the former holders of approximately 11.3 million shares of TKT common stock submitted written demands for appraisal of these shares and elected not to accept the $37 per share merger consideration.
To the extent that these demands were validly asserted in accordance with the applicable requirements of Delaware law and these holders perfect their rights there under, such holders will be entitled to receive the fair value of their shares as determined by the Delaware Court of Chancery.
The determination of fair value of the TKT shares will be made excluding any element of value arising from the transaction, such as cost savings or business synergies.
The Delaware Court of Chancery may ascribe a valuation to the shares that is greater than, less than or equal to $37 per share and may award interest on the amount determined in the appraisal process.
Shire has recognized a liability in respect of the fair value of the consideration in respect of those TKT shareholders who have asserted appraisal rights based on $37 per share.
As at December 31, 2006 the liability in respect of those TKT shareholders who have asserted appraisal rights was $452.3 million including accrued interest of $32.4 million.
For accounting purposes, the acquisition of TKT has been accounted for as a purchase business combination in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
Under the purchase method of accounting, the Group has measured the cost of the business combination as the aggregate of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from TKT at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values.
Financial statements and reported results of operations of the Group issued after completion of the acquisition will reect these values, with the results of TKT included from July 27, 2005 in the income statement.
78 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 13 Business acquisitions continued The cost of the acquisition was made up as follows: $ million Common stock Number of shares of TKT common stock non-dissenting 24,809,126 Price per TKT share $ 37.0 917.9 Number of shares of TKT common stock dissenting 11,349,150 Price per TKT share $ 37.0 419.9 Total number of shares of TKT common stock outstanding as at July 27, 2005 36,158,276 Amount payable to TKTs shareholders at $37 per share 1,337.8 Stock options Cash cost of settling TKT stock options 83.9 Convertible notes Nominal value of convertible loan notes as at July 27, 2005 in $000s 85,000 Conversion ratio into TKT common stock 18.49 Total shares payable upon conversion 4,597,080 Price per TKT share $ 37.0 Cost of settling convertible notes 170.1 Direct costs of acquisition 37.5 Total cost of the acquisition 1,629.3 The purchase price stated above has been allocated according to Shires estimate of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The allocation of the purchase price was completed on July 27, 2006 and has been allocated to assets and liabilities acquired as outlined below.
Goodwill in respect of the TKT acquisition decreased by $131.0 million from $493.4m as provisionally determined as at December 31, 2005 to $362.4 million following the recognition of certain assets and liabilities, net of related deferred tax, as the fair values of these assets and liabilities became reasonably estimable during the allocation period.
As of the end of the allocation period on July 27, 2006 the fair values of the pre-acquisition contingency relating to the Purported Class Action Shareholder Suit had not been determined.
The fair value of this contingency continues to be subject to change based on the outcome of the Purported Class Action Shareholder Suit.
As the allocation period has ended on July 27, 2006 the contingency will be recorded as a liability in accordance with the criteria in IAS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, with any loss arising recognized in the income statement.
Annual report and accounts for the 79 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 13 Business acquisitions continued The cost of the acquisition has been allocated as follows: Book Fair value Fair i value adjustments value $ million $ million $ million ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 56.8 56.8 Restricted cash 8.2 8.2 Short-term investments 46.9 46.9 Accounts receivable 28.3 28.3 Inventories 12.9 88.9 101.8 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 8.0 4.9 12.9 Total current assets 161.1 93.8 254.9 Property, plant and equipment 57.3 57.3 Goodwill 39.0 39.0 Other intangible assets 20.2 1,275.8 1,296.0 Other non-current assets 3.3 3.0 Total assets 280.9 1,330.6 1,611.5 LIABILITIES Current liabilities: Accounts payable and accrued expenses 35.3 12.4 47.7 Deferred tax liability 270.6 270.6 Other current liabilities 24.5 24.5 Total current liabilities 59.8 283.0 342.8 Other long-term liabilities 1.8 1.8 Total liabilities 61.6 283.0 344.6 Contingent liabilities Net assets 219.3 1,047.6 1,266.9 Goodwill 362.4 Total consideration 1,629.3 i Book values are stated in US GAAP and have not been re-stated to IFRS on the grounds of materiality.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of TKT is attributed to the anticipated future operating synergies from the combination.
TKT contributed $42.0 million of revenue and $ 39.5 million to the Groups loss before tax for the period between the date of acquisition and December 31, 2005.
If the acquisition of TKT had been completed on the first day of 2005 Group revenues for the year to December 31, 2005 would have been $1,652.9 million, and the Group loss before tax from continuing operations for the year to December 31, 2005 would have been $257.7 million.
80 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 14 Business integration In connection with the acquisition of TKT, the Groups management approved and initiated plans to restructure the operations of the enlarged Group to eliminate duplicate facilities and reduce costs.
Integration costs represent incremental costs incurred by the Group directly related to the absorption of the TKT business into the Group, including expenditures for consulting and systems integration.
The charges have been presented as integration costs in the statement of operations and are accounted for solely within the Pharmaceutical Products reporting segment.
Integration costs expensed in the year to December 31, 2006: Costs recorded in year to Paid in year to Opening December 31, December 31, Closing liability 2006 2006 liability $ million $ million $ million $ million Retention payments for key TKT employees 5.9 3.0 6.2 2.7 Information technology costs 1.2 1.1 0.1 Other 0.2 1.4 1.6 6.1 5.6 8.9 2.8 Integration costs expensed in the year to December 31, 2005: Costs recorded in year to Paid in year to December 31, December 31, Closing 2005 2005 liability $ million $ million $ million Employee severance 2.0 2.0 Retention payments for key TKT employees 7.0 1.1 5.9 Information technology costs 1.1 1.1 Other 1.6 1.4 0.2 11.7 5.6 6.1 15 Reorganizations Sale of the drug formulation business On December 22, 2005 Shire sold its drug formulation business to Supernus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Supernus, a newly formed specialty pharmaceutical company funded by two venture capital companies.
The sale resulted in: a profit on sale of $3.6 million.
Proceeds from the sale included an equity interest of less than 10% in Supernus, which has been included in investments in private companies see Note 24 at its fair value of $3.9 million.
The fair value was determined by reference to the cash invested in Supernus by the venture capital companies: the transfer of the lease on the East Gude Drive, Rockville premises to Supernus, with Shire being released from all obligations under the lease by the landlord: an ongoing projects agreement relating to services that Supernus provided to Shire for a transitional period ending in March 2006, on certain Shire projects until the projects were moved to third party suppliers: and the severance of 28 employees.
As at December 31, 2005 16 had left the Group, and the remaining employees had left by March 31, 2006.
Severance payments were made to the former employees over a 42 week period, as required by local regulations.
The sale has been reected in the statement of operations in the period ended December 31, 2005 as follows: Other income expense, net R&D $ million $ million Gain on disposition 3.6 Employee severance 1.2 Other costs 0.2 3.6 1.4 All items are recorded in the Pharmaceutical Products segment.
Annual report and accounts for the 81 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 15 Reorganizations continued North American site consolidation As previously disclosed, the Group began a consolidation of its North American sites in 2004, with the aim of decreasing the number of sites from sixteen to four, including the opening of a new US headquarters ofce in Wayne, Pennsylvania.
The Group recorded reorganization costs of $2.3 million in the year to December 31, 2005.
Following the closure of the Newport site in July 2005 the site consolidation was completed and no further reorganization costs have been incurred in the year ended December 31, 2006.
The primary costs associated with the site consolidation included: severance costs relating to 137 employees: retention payments to key employees: relocation costs relating to 85 employees who were moved to Wayne, Pennsylvania: costs of duplicate facilities including lease exit costs : and other incremental costs associated with the site closures, such as legal, consultancy, the write-down of property, plant and equipment and information technology costs.
As at December 31, 2005 all 137 employees had left the Group.
The cost of the employee severance was ratably recognized over the period from the communication date to the termination date.
In addition, all 85 of those employees who had agreed to relocate had relocated.
The cost of relocation was recorded as it was incurred.
The following table presents the cost of the reorganization recorded to date and the total costs of the reorganization.
Total costs Total costs recorded recorded in year to in year to December 31, December 31, Total costs of 2006 2005 reorganization $ million $ million $ million Employee severance and relocation costs 1.6 35.4 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 1.2 Consultancy costs 0.5 3.4 Duplicate facilities 0.2 12.4 Information technology costs 2.1 Other costs 3.4 2.3 57.9 These charges have been reected within reorganization costs in the statement of operations and are accounted for solely within the Pharmaceutical Products reporting segment.
As noted above, the duplicate facilities costs will be paid over the remaining life of the relevant leases, which all expire before October 31, 2012.
The following provides a reconciliation of the liability as at December 31, 2006: Utilization in year to Opening December 31, Closing liability 2006 liability $ million $ million $ million Employee severance and relocation costs 0.6 0.6 Duplicate facilities 7.2 2.2 5.0 7.8 2.8 5.0 Current liabilities Note 29 3.4 1.0 2.4 Other long-term liabilities Note 29 4.4 1.8 2.6 7.8 2.8 5.0 82 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 15 Reorganizations continued The following provides a reconciliation of the liability as at December 31, 2005: Costs recorded Utilization in year to in year to Opening December 31, December 31, Closing liability 2005 2005 liability $ million $ million $ million $ million Employee severance and relocation costs 1.9 1.6 2.9 0.6 Consultancy costs 0.5 0.5 Duplicate facilities 11.0 0.2 4.0 7.2 12.9 2.3 7.4 7.8 Current liabilities Note 29 1.9 2.1 0.6 3.4 Other long-term liabilities Note 29 11.0 0.2 6.8 4.4 12.9 2.3 7.4 7.8 16 Discontinued operations On September 9, 2004 Shire completed the disposition of its vaccines business to ID Biomedical Corporation IDB.
The total consideration for the sale was $120 million comprising $30 million of cash received at completion, $30 million of cash held in escrow and due on the first anniversary of completion and $60 million received at completion in the form of 4,931,864 subscription receipts of IDB.
If, prior to January 10, 2005, IDB were to raise up to $60 million from equity related issuances, then it was required under the terms of the sale agreement to redeem the subscription receipts from Shire for $60 million.
Accordingly, following the completion of such a fund raising on January 7, 2005, IDB redeemed the subscription receipts from Shire for $60 million in cash.
On the first anniversary of completion, Shire received the $30 million of cash held in escrow.
As part of the transaction, Shire entered into an agreement to provide IDB with a loan facility of up to $100 million, which could be drawn down over the four years following completion.
As at December 31, 2005, IDB had drawn down the entire $100 million loan.
It was required that this facility be used by IDB to fund the development of injectable u and pipeline products within the vaccines business acquired from Shire.
Drawings under the loan facility were segregated into two components: i Drawings for injectable u development of $70.6 million repayable out of income generated by IDB on future non-Canadian injectable u products, subject to minimum annual repayments in respect of the first $30 million of the drawing, to be made between 2007 and 2017: and ii Drawings for pipeline development of $29.4 million repayable out of income generated by IDB on future pipeline products and have no xed repayment schedule.
The transaction gave rise to an overall loss on disposition of the vaccines business of $41.1 million, recorded as a loss on disposition at completion in 2004 of $44.2 million and a subsequent provision release of $3.1 million being recognized during the year to December 31, 2005.
This net loss on disposition of $41.1 million comprised a gain on disposition of net assets of $28.9 million together with a provision for a loss of $70 million out of the $100 million loan facility available to IDB.
This provision was made on the basis that those loan repayments based solely on future sales of u and pipeline products in development provided no certainty of recovery.
The historical consolidated financial statements reect the vaccines business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented.
The results of the discontinued operation have been removed from all periods on a line-by-line basis from product sales revenue to income from continuing operations.
The net loss from the discontinued operation, together with the loss on disposition, are shown as separate line items.
On February 14, 2006 the Group received $78.7 million from IDB, being the full repayment of the $70.6 million injectable u development drawings, together with accrued interest of $8.1 million.
The repayment followed GSKs acquisition of IDB, after which IDB was provided with resources by GSK to fund the early repayment of the injectable u tranche.
The $29.4 million pipeline development tranche of the loan facility is still outstanding and is fully provided against.
At the time of the disposal, a provision of $70.0 million was charged to discontinued operations on the basis that there was no certainty of recovery of this amount.
The $70.0 million provision was allocated against all of the pipeline development tranche $29.4 million and against $40.6 million of the $70.6 million injectable u development tranche.
Accordingly, the $78.7 million received was recorded as follows: a gain on disposition of discontinued operations of $40.6 million being the amount previously provided against the injectable u development tranche : settlement of the loan receivable balance of $31.6 million being the unprovided component of the injectable u development loan, plus recognized and accrued interest : and interest income of $6.5 million being interest earned in the year of $1.0 million and $5.5 million of interest earned but provided for in previous periods.
The repayment of the $70.6 million injectable u tranche had no tax effect.
There were no further developments in respect of the $29.4 million outstanding tranche of the IDB loan.
Annual report and accounts for the 83 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 17 Dividends 2006 2005 $ million $ million Equity shares: Interim dividend of 2.54 pence 4.42 equivalent per share paid in April 2006 2005: 2.0 pence, paid in April 2005 3.85 equivalent 22.6 19.1 Interim dividend of 1.05 pence 1.93 equivalent per share paid in October 2006 2005: 1.05 pence, paid in October 2005 1.82 equivalent 9.8 9.4 32.4 28.5 In accordance with IAS10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the proposed second interim dividend of 2.69 pence 5.25 equivalent per share has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The Board has resolved to pay the dividend on April 5, 2007 to persons whose names appear on the register of members of the Group at the close of business on March 16, 2007.
During 2006, Shire Acquisition Inc. has paid dividends totaling CAD $0.4 million.
These dividends qualify as eligible dividends under sub section 89 1 of the Income Tax Act Canada and hence would be eligible for the enhanced gross up and dividend tax credit afforded to eligible dividends paid by resident Canadian corporations.
18 Earnings loss per Ordinary share EPS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings loss attributable to Ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust Note 33, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary shares.
For the year to December 31, 2006 share options to purchase approximately 7.7 million Ordinary shares were not dilutive 2005: 20.7 million share options and 1.3 million warrants and were therefore excluded from the computation of diluted EPS.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below.
Weighted average Earnings number of Per share 2006 $ million shares amount Basic EPS Earnings attributable to Ordinary shareholders 56.2 503,359,162 11.2 Effect of dilutive securities Share options 5,324,980 0.2 Warrants 601,485 Diluted EPS 56.2 509,285,627 11.0 Weighted average Loss number of Per share 2005 $ million shares amount Basic and Diluted EPS Loss attributable to Ordinary shareholders 179.2 500,243,137 35.8 Earnings loss per share from continuing and discontinued operations: Weighted average Earnings number of Per share 2006 $million shares amount Basic EPS profit from continuing operations 15.6 503,359,162 3.1 Gain from discontinued operations 40.6 503,359,162 8.1 Diluted EPS profit from continuing operations 15.6 509,285,627 3.0 Gain from discontinued operations 40.6 509,285,627 8.0 84 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 18 Earnings loss per Ordinary share EPS continued Weighted Earnings average loss number of Per share 2005 $million shares amount Basic and Diluted EPS Loss from continuing operations 182.3 500,243,137 36.4 Gain from discontinued operations 3.1 500,243,137 0.6 19 Goodwill i Restated 2006 2005 $ million $ million Net book value At January 1, 2,078.5 2,246.2 Recognized on acquisition of subsidiary 0.6 362.4 Impairment 271.9 527.0 Adjustments relating to prior year acquisitions 3.7 Exchange differences 2.4 3.1 December 31, 1,805.9 2,078.5 i During the year to December 31, 2006 the Group nalized the allocation of the purchase cost of the acquisition of TKT, which completed on July 27, 2005.
As a result of nalising the allocation of the purchase cost, goodwill arising on the acquisition decreased from $493.4 million as at December 31, 2005 to $362.4 million as at July 27, 2006 the end of the allocation period.
The reduction of goodwill primarily resulted from the recognition of the $232.0 million tax amortization benefit arising on the valuation of intangible assets and in-process research and development offset by certain contingent assets and liabilities where fair value is now determinable of $9.0 million, and related net deferred tax liabilities of $92.0 million.
In accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations, the results for the year to December 31, 2005 and the balance sheet at December 31, 2005 have been restated to reect the allocation of the cost of the acquisition of TKT as if the accounting for the combination was computed as of the acquisition date.
Goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: Pharmaceutical products Royalties Total 2006 $ million $ million $ million North America 1,069.4 380.0 1,449.4 Rest of the world 24.5 332.0 356.5 Total 1,093.9 712.0 1,805.9 Pharmaceutical products Royalties Total 2005 $ million $ million $ million North America 1,189.9 440.4 1,630.3 Rest of the world 21.4 426.8 448.2 Total 1,211.3 867.2 2,078.5 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use cash ow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering up to five years.
For certain CGUs, projections of up to thirteen years are used to fully model relevant product lifecycles.
Cash ows beyond the projected period are extrapolated using the estimated growth rates stated below.
The growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the business in which the CGU operates.
These assumptions have been used for the analysis of each CGU within the business segment.
Annual report and accounts for the 85 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 19 Goodwill continued Key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations: 2006 2005 Pharmaceutical Pharmaceutical products Royalties products Royalties i Gross margin 87% n a 86% n a ii Growth rate 0% 0% 2% 25 % iii Discount rate 15% 13% 19% 10% i Budgeted gross margin.
ii Weighted average growth rate used to extrapolate cash ows beyond the projection period of 13 years as appropriate.
iii Pre-tax discount rate applied to pre tax cash ows.
Management determined budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations for the market development.
The weighted average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports.
The discount rates used are pre-tax and reect specic risks relating to the relevant segments.
The Group recognized $362.4 million in 2005 as goodwill on acquisition of TKT see Note 13, in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
This goodwill is recorded in the Pharmaceutical Products operating segment.
At December 31, 2006 an impairment charge of $271.9 million 2005: $527.0 million was made in relation to goodwill arising on the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc.
The recoverable value of the business was calculated using value-in-use based discounted cash ow modelling, and the impairment charge is included within selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
A range of pre-tax discount rates between 13%15% was applied to probability-adjusted forecasts.
The impairment reected lower cash ows from 3TC royalties as increased competition in the anti-viral market is anticipated.
20 Other intangible assets Intellectual Software and property other Total $ million $ million $ million Net book value At January 1, 2006 1,601.8 23.0 1,624.8 Additions 165.5 31.6 197.1 Amortization 70.8 10.7 81.5 Impairments 1.1 1.1 Exchange differences 8.3 0.2 8.5 At December 31, 2006 1,703.7 44.1 1,747.8 Patents and trademarks are amortized over their useful lives, which is on average 18 years.
i Intellectual Software Restated property and other Total $ million $ million $ million Net book value At January 1, 2005 312.6 9.7 322.3 Additions 54.2 18.9 73.1 Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary 1,296.0 1,296.0 Amortization 45.2 6.1 51.3 Impairments 4.4 4.4 Exchange differences 11.4 0.5 10.9 As previously reported December 31, 2005 1,601.8 23.0 1,624.8 i During 2005, the Group acquired $1,064 million of other identiable intangible assets, at fair value, as part of the acquisition of TKT see Note 13.
During the six months to June 30, 2006 the Group nalized the allocation of the purchase cost of the acquisition of TKT, which completed on July 27, 2005.
86 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20 Other intangible assets continued An additional $232.0 million was ascribed to the value of intangible assets and in-process research and development relating to the tax amortization benefit on the valuation of intangible assets and in-process research and development.
An additional charge of $1.8 million was recognized in the year to December 31, 2005 relating to amortization charged on the additional value ascribed to intangible assets.
The weighted average amortization period of these assets is 18 years.
These assets relate to in-process R&D $815 million intellectual property $335 million, customer relationships $119 million and other nite-lived assets $27 million.
21 Property, plant and equipment Land and Furniture Equipment Motor buildings and ttings and other vehicles Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Net book value At January 1, 2006 153.5 31.9 25.5 7.3 218.2 Additions 31.7 30.8 6.2 8.6 77.3 Depreciation provided in the year 16.7 14.2 6.0 3.5 40.4 Impairments 0.5 0.5 Disposals 0.9 0.2 2.0 3.1 Foreign exchange 5.6 2.0 7.6 At December 31, 2006 173.2 50.3 25.2 10.4 259.1 Land and Furniture Equipment Motor buildings and ttings and other vehicles Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Net book value At January 1, 2005 70.4 28.9 22.3 6.5 128.1 Additions 45.0 14.8 7.5 4.6 71.9 Acquisition of subsidiary 42.4 6.8 8.0 57.2 Depreciation provided in the year 9.2 8.7 2.2 2.9 23.0 Impairments 1.2 0.8 4.4 6.4 Disposals 0.3 0.4 0.9 1.6 Foreign exchange 6.1 8.8 5.3 8.0 At December 31, 2005 153.5 31.9 25.5 7.3 218.2 Tangible xed asset additions of $77.3 million 2005: $71.9 million included acquisitions of $8.6 million 2005: $4.6 million nanced by new finance leases.
Freehold land, amounting to $12.1 million 2005: $10.4 million for the Group has not been depreciated.
All motor vehicles are held under finance leases.
Depreciation expense of $4.8 million 2005: $3.5 million has been charged in cost of sales, and $35.6 million 2005: $19.5 million in selling, general and administrative expenses.
Annual report and accounts for the 87 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 22 Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rates that are expected to apply when the liability is settled or the asset is realized.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same scal authority.
The offset amounts are as follows: i Restated 2006 2005 $ million $ million Deferred tax assets: Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months 399.9 323.3 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months 120.0 91.0 519.9 414.3 Deferred tax liabilities: Deferred tax liability to be incurred after more than 12 months 547.1 548.2 Deferred tax liability to be incurred within 12 months 18.5 547.1 566.7 Net deferred tax liability 27.2 152.4 These amounts are disclosed in the balance sheet as follows: Deferred tax asset 120.0 72.5 Deferred tax liability 147.2 224.9 27.2 152.4 The gross movement on the deferred tax account is as follows: At January 1, 152.4 85.1 Acquisition of subsidiary 269.7 Income statement credit 109.0 31.4 Movement booked to equity 4.6 1.7 Foreign exchange 11.6 0.9 At December 31, 27.2 152.4 i During the year to December 31, 2006 the Group nalized the allocation of the purchase cost of the acquisition of TKT, which completed on July 27, 2005.
As of December 31, 2006 the Group has not made a UK tax provision on approximately $2.1 billion 2005: $1.7 billion of unremitted earnings of its international subsidiaries.
The Group does not provide for income taxes on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries located outside the UK, where such earnings have been retained indefinitely for reinvestment, or where it is managements intention that the earnings will be remitted in a tax free liquidation, or as dividends with taxes substantially offset by foreign tax credits.
It is not practical to determine the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences related to these investments.
88 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 22 Deferred tax continued The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Deferred tax assets: ShareTax ACA based i losses STTD payments Total 2006 $ million $ million $ million $ million At January 1, 2006 140.6 263.4 10.3 414.3 Credit to the income statement 45.5 38.7 7.3 91.5 Credit to equity 4.6 4.6 Exchange differences 1.2 6.9 1.4 9.5 At December 31, 2006 187.3 309.0 23.6 519.9 ShareTax ACA based i losses STTD payments Total Restated 2005 $ million $ million $ million $ million At January 1, 2005 69.8 53.7 2.3 125.8 Acquisition of subsidiary 156.6 134.8 291.4 Charged credited to the income statement 85.4 75.0 6.7 3.7 Credit to equity 1.7 1.7 Exchange differences 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.9 At December 31, 2005 140.6 263.4 10.3 414.3 i Accelerated Capital Allowances Short-Term Timing Differences.
Deferred tax liabilities: Restated 2006 2005 $ million $ million At January 1, 566.7 40.7 Acquisition of subsidiary 561.1 Credit to the income statement 17.5 35.1 Exchange differences 2.1 At December 31, 547.1 566.7 At December 31, 2006 the deferred tax liabilities materially related to accelerated capital allowances.
As at December 31, 2006 based upon the level of historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income, management believes it is more likely than not that the Group will realize the benets of the recognized deferred tax assets.
However, the amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if estimates of taxable income are revised.
Unrecognized deferred tax assets: 2006 2005 $ million $ million Tax losses 63.9 148.6 Other timing differences 45.7 86.5 109.6 235.1 Annual report and accounts for the 89 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 23 Investments accounted for using equity method Joint Associates ventures Total 2006 $ million $ million $ million At January 1, 2006 17.1 5.9 23.0 Additions 1.4 1.4 Share of post tax profit 0.5 6.3 5.8 Dividends received 0.3 5.8 6.1 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 At December 31, 2006 17.7 6.5 24.2 Joint Associates ventures Total 2005 $ million $ million $ million At January 1, 2005 24.7 6.1 30.8 Additions 2.1 2.1 Share of post tax profit 6.3 5.3 1.0 Dividends received 3.8 4.7 8.5 Exchange differences 0.4 0.8 0.4 At December 31, 2005 17.1 5.9 23.0 Investments in joint ventures consist of a 50% share of the commercialisation partnership with GSK, through which the products 3TC and ZEFFIX are marketed in Canada.
Investments in associates consist primarily of investments in the GeneChem Technologies Venture Fund and the GeneChem Therapeutics Venture Fund together The Funds.
The Funds are limited partnerships with a December 31 year-end formed under the laws of the Province of Quebec, Canada, investing in healthcare research and development companies, in which the Group owns 30% and 11% respectively.
At December 31, 2006 the Funds net assets totaled approximately $72.0 million 2005: $71 million.
The Group is involved as a limited partner and is the general partner of the Funds: the Groups involvement in the Funds dates from between 1997 and 2000.
The Groups exposure to loss as a result of its involvement with the Funds is limited to the carrying value of the investment, $11.2 million at December 31, 2006 2005: $12.7 million and its commitment to further investment of $1.7 million 2005: $1.7 million.
Aggregated amounts relating to associates, all of which are unlisted, are shown below: 2006 2005 $ million $ million Assets 110.9 112.9 Liabilities 0.2 0.2 110.7 112.7 Revenue 1.0 1.2 Post tax loss 10.7 42.4 Aggregated amounts relating to the joint venture are shown below: 2006 2005 $ million $ million Non-current assets Current assets 13.9 12.8 Non-current liabilities Current liabilities 0.9 0.9 13.0 11.9 Revenue 37.6 32.5 Operating expenses 25.0 21.9 12.6 10.6 Taxation Post tax profit 12.6 10.6 90 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 24 Investments 2006 2005 $ million $ million Available-for-sale investments Investments in private companies 15.1 9.0 Available-for-sale securities 16.5 18.1 31.6 27.1 Trading investments Institutional and managed cash funds 6.9 6.9 The fair value of available-for-sale investments as at December 31, 2006 was $31.6 million 2005: $27.1 million.
There were no material differences between fair value and book value of the trading investments as at December 31, 2006 2005: nil.
Available-for-sale investments Investments in private companies During the year to December 31, 2006 additions to investments in private companies included $8.0 million 2005: $4.1 million to ViroChem Pharma Inc. in return for an additional equity interest.
During the year to December 31, 2005 additions to investments in private companies included a $3.9 million investment in Supernus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. less than 10% of total equity, as part consideration for the sale of the drug formulation business.
The fair value of the investment was determined by reference to cash invested in Supernus by the other investors.
During the year to December 31, 2006 the Group recorded impairments of $1.8 million 2005: $1.6 million against its investments in private companies based on a decline in the estimates of their fair value that the Group believes are other-than-temporary.
The changes in fair values which resulted in the write-downs referred to above were based on the Groups estimates, derived from financial and other publicly available information such as press releases and recent capital raising activities.
Available-for-sale securities During 2006, there were no sales of available-for-sale securities.
During the year to December 31, 2005 the Group sold an investment in an available-for-sale security, valued at $6.0 million, realizing a gain on the sale of $3.9 million.
Other-than-temporary impairment The Group recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $0.3 million against its available-for-sale securities in the year to December 31, 2006.
At December 31, 2005 the Group had no available for sale investments in a significant unrealized loss position for which other-than-temporary impairments have not been recognized.
25 Inventories 2006 2005 $ million $ million Raw materials 21.8 18.8 Work in progress 59.2 54.0 Finished goods 50.1 63.3 131.1 136.1 The value of inventories carried at fair value less costs to sell at December 31, 2006 was $nil 2005: $52.1 million.
The value of inventory at fair value less costs to sell at December 31, 2006 represented those inventories of REPLAGAL acquired with the acquisition of TKT.
Annual report and accounts for the 91 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 Trade and other receivables i Restated 2006 2005 $ million $ million Trade receivables 321.5 339.6 Less: provision for impairment 10.7 9.7 Trade receivables net 310.8 329.9 Loans granted Note 16 30.0 Interest receivable 3.9 1.5 Prepayments and accrued income 39.0 30.3 Other debtors 44.7 34.5 SERP Note 31 10.0 8.9 Total 408.4 435.1 Less: Non-current portion 12.3 43.0 Current portion 396.1 392.1 i During the year to December 31, 2006 the Group nalized the allocation of the purchase cost of the acquisition of TKT, which completed on July 27, 2005.
Further details of the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan SERP asset are provided in Note 31.
The amount shown above is the cash at bank and non-current marketable securities held in a Rabbi Trust.
The legal form of the trust is such that the assets held to cover the pension liabilities are available to the general creditors of the Group on winding up.
Accordingly, the assets held by the trust are not plan assets and are recorded on the balance sheet.
A related liability is shown in Note 29.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 60 days 2005: 58 days.
An allowance has been made for doubtful accounts and sales discounts of $10.7 million 2005: $9.7 million.
This allowance has been determined by specic review of outstanding receivables at the balance sheet date.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
27 Borrowings 2006 2005 $ million $ million Non-current 2% guaranteed convertible loan notes 2011 0.1 Finance lease liabilities 6.9 4.6 6.9 4.7 Current Finance lease liabilities 3.5 2.7 Total borrowings 10.4 7.4 All borrowings in both the current and previous years are denominated in US Dollars.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of borrowing approximates their fair value.
Subject to the conditions below, non-current borrowings are repayable as follows: 2006 2005 Notes $ million $ million Convertible loan notes: i After five years 0.1 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts: ii Between one and two years 3.5 2.7 Between two and three years 3.4 1.9 6.9 4.6 6.9 4.7 92 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 27 Borrowings continued i 2% guaranteed convertible loan notes 2011 The guaranteed convertible notes due 2011, were issued in August 2001 by Shire Finance Limited the Issuer, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
The convertible notes were guaranteed by Shire and were convertible into redeemable preference shares of the Issuer which upon issuance will be immediately exchanged for: i Shire Ordinary shares, ii Shire ADSs or iii at the Issuers option, a cash amount based upon the London Stock Exchange volume-weighted average prices of Shires Ordinary shares on the fourth through eighth business days following conversion.
At the choice of investors, each $1,000 of nominal value notes was convertible into 49.62 Shire Ordinary shares subject to adjustment or 16.54 Shire ADSs subject to adjustment at any time up to August 21, 2011.
Alternatively, investors had the right to receive repayment of the nominal principal in cash either at the maturity date of August 21, 2011 or by exercising a put option on any of the three put dates being August 21, 2004, August 21, 2006 and August 21, 2008.
On August 21, 2004, upon exercise of the put option by substantially all of the convertible note holders, the Group redeemed $370.1 million at par, from available funds.
The remaining $0.1 million of convertible loan notes were redeemed by the note holders on August 21, 2006 in accordance with the investors option rights referred to above.
ii Finance leases 2006 2005 $ million $ million Finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments: Not later than 1 year 3.8 2.9 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 7.6 5.0 Later than 5 years 11.4 7.9 Future finance charges on finance leases 1.0 0.7 Present value of finance lease liabilities 10.4 7.2 The Groups finance leases are in respect of motor vehicles, and do not impose any significant restrictions on the Group.
iii Credit Facilities In connection with the acquisition of TKT, Shire plc and certain subsidiary companies entered into a Multicurrency Revolving Facilities Agreement the Facilities Agreement with ABN AMRO Bank N. V. Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc the Lenders on June 15, 2005.
The Facilities Agreement comprises two credit facilities: i a committed multicurrency three-year revolving loan facility in an aggregate amount of $500 million Facility A and ii a committed 364 day revolving loan facility in an aggregate amount of $300 million Facility B and, together with Facility A, the Facilities.
Shire plc has agreed to act as guarantor for any of its subsidiaries that borrow under the Facilities Agreement.
In June 2006 Facility B was extended for a further 364 days to June 13, 2007.
In October 2006, Facility B was reduced to $200 million.
As at December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had not drawn down on these Facilities.
The Facilities Agreement was cancelled in full with effect from February 27, 2007.
In connection with the acquisition of New River, Shire plc entered into a Multicurrency Term and Revolving Facilities Agreement the New Facilities Agreement with ABN AMRO Bank N. V. Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global Markets Limited and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc the Arrangers on February 20, 2007.
The New Facilities Agreement comprises three credit facilities: i a committed multicurrency five year term loan facility in an aggregate amount of $1,000 million Term Loan A, ii a committed multicurrency 364 day term with a further 364 day extension option loan facility in an aggregate amount of $300 million Term Loan B and iii a committed five-year revolving loan facility in an aggregate amount of $1,000 million the RCF and, together with Term Loan A and Term Loan B, the Facilities.
Shire plc has agreed to act as guarantor for any of its subsidiaries that borrow under the New Facilities Agreement.
The RCF, which includes a $250 million swingline facility, may be used for general corporate purposes.
Term Loan A and Term Loan B may be used only for nancing the acquisition of New River including related fees and transaction costs and renancing any existing indebtedness of New River or its subsidiaries.
The RCF and Term Loan A mature on February 20, 2012.
Term Loan A is repaid in annual installments on the anniversary of the New Facilities Agreement in the following amounts: $150 million in 2008, $150 million in 2009, $200 million in 2010, $200 million in 2011 and the balance on maturity.
Term Loan B matures on February 19, 2008.
As noted above, at the Companys request, the maturity date of Term Loan B may be extended for a further 364 days.
The availability of loans under each of the Facilities is subject to customary conditions, including the absence of any defaults thereunder and the accuracy in all material respects of the Companys representations and warranties contained therein.
Annual report and accounts for the 93 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 27 Borrowings continued The Facilities include representations and warranties, covenants and events of default, including i requirements that Shires ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as dened in the Facilities Agreement does not exceed 3.50:1 for the 12 month period ending December 31, 2007: 3.25:1 for the 12 month period ending 30 June 2008: and 3.00:1 for each 12 month period ending December 31 and June 30 thereafter: and ii that the ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest as dened in the New Facilities Agreement must not be less than 4.0 to 1, for each 12 month period ending December 31, or June 30, and iii additional limitations on the creation of liens, disposal of assets, incurrence of indebtedness, making of loans and giving of guarantees.
Interest on loans under the Facilities will be payable on the last day of each interest period, which period may be one week or one, two, three or six months at the election of the Company or as otherwise agreed with the Lenders.
The interest rate on each loan drawn under the RCF or Term Loan A for each interest period is the percentage rate per annum which is the aggregate of the applicable margin initially set at 0.80% per annum until delivery of the compliance certicate for the year ending December 31, 2007 and thereafter ranging from 0.40 to 0.80% per annum, depending on the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA, LIBOR, and mandatory cost, if any as calculated in accordance with Schedule 5 of the New Facilities Agreement.
The interest rate on each loan drawn under Term Loan B for each interest period is the percentage rate per annum which is the aggregate of the applicable margin being from 0.50% for the first six months from the date of the New Facilities Agreement, 0.75% for the second six months and 1.00% per annum thereafter, LIBOR, and mandatory cost, if any as calculated in accordance with Schedule 5 of the Facilities Agreement.
Shire shall also pay fees equal to 35% per annum of the applicable margin on available commitments under the RCF for the availability period applicable to the RCF and 20% per annum of the applicable margin on available commitments under Term Loan A and Term Loan B for the availability period applicable to Term Loan A and Term Loan B.
Interest on overdue amounts under the Facilities will accrue at a rate, which is one percentage point higher than the rates otherwise applicable to the loans under the Facilities.
The Facilities Agreement restricts subject to certain carve-outs Shires ability to incur additional financial indebtedness, grant security over its assets or provide or guarantee loans.
Further, any lender may require mandatory prepayment of its participation if there is a change in control of the Company.
Upon a change of control of the Company or upon the occurrence of an event of default and the expiration of any applicable cure period, the total commitments under the Facilities may be cancelled, all or part of the loans, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued or outstanding may become immediately due and payable.
Events of default under the New Facilities Agreement include: i non-payment of any amounts due under the Facilities: ii failure to satisfy any financial covenants: iii material misrepresentation in any of the finance documents: iv failure to pay, or certain other defaults under other financial indebtedness: v certain insolvency events or proceedings: vi material adverse changes in the business, operations, assets or financial condition of the Group: vii certain US Employee Retirement Income Security Act ERISA breaches which would have a material adverse effect: viii if it becomes illegal for the Company or any of its subsidiaries that are parties to the New Facilities Agreement to perform their obligations or ix if the Company or any subsidiary of the Company which is party to the New Facilities Agreement repudiates the New Facilities Agreement or any Finance Document as dened in the Facilities Agreement.
The New Facilities Agreement is governed by English law.
Shire anticipates that its operating cash ow together with available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and the above mentioned debt facilities will be sufficient to meet its anticipated future operating expenses, any costs arising as a result of the acquisition of New River, outstanding costs related to the acquisition of TKT, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases and debt service and lease obligations as they become due over the next 12 months.
If the Group decides to acquire other businesses, it expects to fund these acquisitions from existing cash resources, the Facilities Agreement discussed above and possibly through new borrowings and or the issue of new equity if necessary.
28 Derivatives and other financial instruments The Group is exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates against the US Dollar for trading transactions and the translation of net assets, liabilities and earnings of non-US subsidiaries.
The main trading currencies of the Group are the US Dollar, the Canadian Dollar, Pounds Sterling, the Euro and Swedish Krona.
The exposure to foreign exchange risk is managed and monitored by the treasury function.
As at December 31, 2006 the Group had 18 outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts with a total principal amount equivalent to $98.3 million to manage the currency risk associated with certain inter-company loans.
The Group does not seek hedge accounting treatment for these hedges and therefore changes in the fair value of these derivatives are accounted for in the income statement.
As at December 31, 2006 the fair value of these currency derivatives showed an unrealized loss of $8.1 million 2005: gain of $2.5 million.
94 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29 Trade and other payables i Restated 2006 2005 $ million $ million Trade payables 54.5 71.0 Other creditors 18.0 14.8 Accruals and deferred income 532.9 377.4 SERP Note 31 4.7 4.6 Total 610.1 467.8 Less: Non-current portion 24.6 18.1 Current portion 585.5 449.7 i During the year to December 31, 2006 the Group nalized the allocation of the purchase cost of the acquisition of TKT, which completed on July 27, 2005.
Trade payables comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade payables is 20 days 2005: 30 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
Accruals and deferred income includes accrued rebates and sales return reserves, accrued bonuses and other accrued expenses.
30 Provisions for other liabilities and charges Reorganization IDB Loan Other Total $ million $ million $ million $ million January 1, 2006 7.8 26.1 33.9 Charge for the year 17.2 17.2 Reversed unutilized 0.9 0.9 Utilized 2.8 11.5 14.3 December 31, 2006 5.0 30.9 35.9 Less: Non-current portion 27.6 Current portion 8.3 Reorganization IDB Loan Other Total $ million $ million $ million $ million January 1, 2005 13.0 43.1 15.2 71.3 Charge for the year 2.3 18.1 20.4 Acquired 3.3 3.3 Reversed unutilized 5.8 5.8 Utilized 7.5 43.1 4.7 55.3 December 31, 2005 7.8 26.1 33.9 Less: Non-current portion 25.4 Current portion 8.5 Reorganization The Group began a consolidation of its North American sites in 2004 see Note 15.
The costs recognized as a provision as at December 31, 2006 consist of onerous lease provisions of $5.0 million in respect of duplicate facilities that are expected to be released over the remaining life of the relevant leases, which all expire before October 31, 2012.
Other Other provisions primarily relate to long-term bonuses, provisions for guarantees and insurance, and onerous lease provisions in relation to vacated properties.
Provisions recognized in relation to long-term bonuses total $11.5 million, of which $4.6 million is expected to be paid in 2007 and the remainder on the maturity of the underlying schemes over the next three years.
Provisions for insurance and guarantees totaling $15.2 million are expected to be settled between one and three years.
Onerous lease provisions of $3.9 million will be paid over the next three years, the remaining life of the relevant leases.
Annual report and accounts for the 95 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 Retirement obligations The Group has a number of dened contribution retirement plans that together cover substantially all employees.
The Groups contribution is xed as a set percentage of employees base salary.
The pension cost charge for the dened contribution schemes for the year was $13.2 million 2005: $14.1 million.
The closing creditor in respect of pension premiums at December 31, 2006 is $3.6 million 2005: $1.8 million.
The Group has two Supplemental Executive Retirement Plans SERPs, which are dened benefit plans.
The Roberts SERP is for some US employees of Roberts Pharmaceutical Corporation Roberts who met certain age and service requirements.
Shire acquired Roberts in 1999, and the plan was discontinued in 2000.
There were no contributions payable by the Group in respect of 2006 and 2005.
The Group paid a lump sum of $18.0 million into the Roberts SERP, which was accounted for as a fair value adjustment on the acquisition of Roberts to make good the deficit on this scheme at the time of acquisition.
This lump sum payment has led to the Group having no future liability under the SERP, which has been closed to new members with contributions no longer payable by existing members.
Assets are set aside to fund these benets in a Rabbi Trust.
Accordingly, the assets held by the trust are not plan assets as dened by IAS 19 Employee Benets, and are recorded on the balance sheet see Note 26.
The Shire SERP dened benefit scheme is an unfunded arrangement: the benets are payable to certain senior US employees as lump sums on leaving the Groups employment or earlier due to death, disability or termination.
The amount of benefit is based on the value of notional contributions increased with earned investment returns as if they were invested in investments of the employees choice.
The entire benefit liability has been recognized on the balance sheet.
The liabilities of the two SERPs totaling $4.7 million at December 31, 2006 2005: $4.6 million are shown in Note 29.
32 Share capital 2006 2005 Number Number Ordinary shares 000 $ million 000 $ million Authorized At January 1, Ordinary shares of 5p each 750,000 64.6 750,000 64.6 At December 31, Ordinary shares of 5p each 750,000 64.6 750,000 64.6 Allotted, issued and fully paid At January 1, Ordinary shares of 5p each 495,734 42.7 484,916 36.1 Effect of scheme of arrangement and capital reduction 5.7 Restated position at January 1, 495,734 42.7 484,916 41.8 Issued on exercise of options for cash consideration 8,312 0.2 4,702 0.4 Issued on exchange of exchangeable shares 2,700 0.8 6,116 0.5 Issue of Ordinary share capital At December 31, Ordinary shares of 5p each 506,746 43.7 495,734 42.7 2006 2005 Number Number Special ordinary voting shares 000 $ million 000 $ million Authorized At January 1, special ordinary voting shares of 0.00001p 10,000 10,000 At December 31, special ordinary voting shares of 0.00001p 10,000 10,000 Allotted, issued and fully paid At January 1, 2,188 101.2 4,226 195.8 Cancelled following an exchange of exchangeable shares for Ordinary shares 900 41.7 2,038 94.6 At December 31, 1,288 59.5 2,188 101.2 Authorized share capital The authorized stock of Shire plc as at December 31, 2006 was 750,000,000 Ordinary shares 2005: 750,000,000, 10,000,000 special voting shares 2005: 10,000,000, and 2 deferred Ordinary shares 2005: 2.
On November 1, 2006 50,000 non-voting preference shares were redeemed by the shareholders at par.
The special voting shares are held by a Voting Trustee, providing the holders of exchangeable shares in Shire Acquisition, Inc. with as nearly as practicable voting rights equivalent to those attached to Shires Ordinary shares.
96 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 32 Share capital continued Issue of Ordinary shares During the year ended December 31, 2006 the Company allotted 2,700,262 Ordinary shares 2005: 6,116,049 Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 0.1 million $0.2 million 2005: 0.3 million $0.5 million on the exchange of exchangeable shares, which were issued following the acquisition of BioChem in 2001.
These shares were issued at a premium of 29.2 million $41.5 million 2005 66.2 million $94.1 million.
Exchange of exchangeable shares and cancellation of special ordinary voting shares The Company exchanged 900,087 exchangeable shares and cancelled the equivalent number of special ordinary voting shares during the year ended December 31, 2006.
Each exchangeable share is capable of being exchanged for Ordinary shares or ADSs, at a rate of one exchangeable share for three Ordinary shares or one exchangeable share for one ADS, at any time at the request of the holder.
Only BioChem shareholders with Canadian residency had the option to receive exchangeable shares for their shares of BioChem at the time of acquisition.
The exchangeable shares were issued by Shire Acquisition Inc. a company incorporated under the Canada Business Corporations Act, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Holders of exchangeable shares are entitled to vote at shareholder meetings of the Company and are entitled to a dividend and other rights that are economically equivalent to those of Ordinary shares, through a voting trust and by means of the special ordinary voting shares in Shire.
As at December 31, 2006 1,287,706 exchangeable shares remained unconverted.
The Company can redeem all outstanding exchangeable shares for Ordinary shares after May 11, 2011 or earlier if the total number of exchangeable shares falls below one million.
The exchangeable shares are included as part of share capital in the consolidated balance sheet to present a true and fair view of the consolidated Groups capital structure, which differs from the Companies Act 1985 requirements to reect these amounts as minority interests, as they will become, and are equivalent, to Ordinary shares.
Share warrants On April 24, 2002 the Company issued 741,812 share warrants, at 4.88 per warrant, and on November 21, 2002 the Company issued a further 604,595 share warrants, at 4.895 per warrant, both issues being made to Technology Partnership Canada TPC, pursuant to an agreement between BioChem and the Government of Canada GOC.
Each warrant grants a right to subscribe for a corresponding number of Ordinary shares of the Company within five years from the date of issue of the warrant.
On March 12, 2007 the April 2002 warrants were exercised in full.
Annual report and accounts for the 97 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 Share-based payments Historically the Group has granted options to Directors and employees over Ordinary shares under six stock option plans.
On November 28, 2005 the Ordinary shareholders of Shire approved the adoption of the Shire plc Portfolio Share Plan Parts A and B, a new share-based compensation plan, which provides for stock-settled share appreciation rights and performance share awards to be made to Directors and employees over Ordinary shares and American depositary shares ADS.
No further awards will be made under the previous stock option plans.
The Ordinary shares in Shire plc, to which the above options relate, were valued at 10.59 at December 31, 2006 2005: 7.44.
The highest and lowest market prices during the year ended December 31, 2006 were 10.80 and 7.00 2005: 7.53 and 5.39 respectively.
The average share price during the year was 8.83 2005: 6.37.
98 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 Share-based payments continued The Group has granted options to Directors and employees over Ordinary shares under the following six share option schemes: a Stock option plans i Shire Pharmaceuticals Executive Share Option Scheme Parts A and B Executive Scheme Options granted under the Executive Scheme are subject to performance criteria and cannot be exercised in full, unless Shires Ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of at least 20.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period.
If Shire plcs Ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of 14.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period, 60% of the options may be exercised.
If these conditions are not met after the initial three years, they are thereafter tested quarterly by reference to share price growth over the extended period.
If the share price does not meet these conditions at any time, none of the options will become exercisable.
On February 28, 2000 the Remuneration Committee of the Board exercised its powers to amend the terms of the Executive Share Option Scheme so as to include a cliff vesting provision.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the Executive Scheme.
ii Shire plc 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 Executive Scheme Options granted under this scheme are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
In respect of any option granted prior to August 2002, if Shire plcs Ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of at least 20.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period, the option becomes exercisable in full.
If it increases by at least 14.5% per annum over the same three-year period, 60% of the options granted become exercisable.
If these conditions are not met after the initial three-year measurement period, they will thereafter be tested quarterly by reference to compound annual share price growth over an extended period.
The performance criteria were reviewed in 2002 to ensure the criteria reected the market in which the Group operates.
Given the Groups development, it was considered appropriate that an earnings per share-based measure should be adopted in place of share price growth targets.
The performance criteria are based on real growth in the diluted earnings per share reported in the Groups Form 10-K under US GAAP, adjusted to ensure a consistent basis of measurement, as approved by the Remuneration Committee, including the add back of significant one time items option EPS.
Therefore, the performance criteria were amended so that an option would become exercisable in full if Shires option EPS growth over a three year period from the date of award exceeds the UK Retail Prices Index RPI for the following tranches of grants: Options with a grant value of up to 100% of salary RPI plus 9% Directors, RPI plus 15% Between 101% and 200% of salary RPI plus 15% Between 201% and 300% of salary RPI plus 21% Over 301% of salary RPI plus 27% The new earnings per share performance criteria apply to options granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme from August 2002.
After consultation with certain of its institutional shareholders, the Group has decided that for options granted under the scheme from 2004 onwards, the re-test of the performance condition if Shires option EPS growth has fallen short of the minimum annual average percentage increase over the three year period from grant, has been changed.
The performance condition will be re-tested once only, at five years after the grant.
Hence the level of option EPS growth in the next two years needs to be consequentially higher to meet the test.
Six weeks prior to the expiration date, any options that have not become exercisable at an earlier date, automatically vest without reference to the performance criteria.
In December 2006 the Remuneration Committee of the Board exercised its powers to amend the performance criteria for options granted under the 2000 Executive scheme that had not already vested.
The RPI based growth rate was replaced with equivalent xed growth rates based on historical and forecast ination.
The fair value of the awards were unaffected by this change and no additional compensation cost was recorded.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme.
iii Shire Pharmaceuticals Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are granted with an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to employees.
Employees may enter into three or five-year savings contracts.
iv Shire plc Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
The offering period is for 27 months.
v Pharmavene 1991 Stock Option Plan SLI Plan Options issued under the SLI Plan were originally granted over shares in SLI, formerly Pharmavene Inc. a company acquired by the Group on March 23, 1997.
Exercise of these options results in the option holder receiving Ordinary shares in Shire plc.
As a result of the acquisition of SLI, and in accordance with the terms of the original, share option plan, all options granted under that plan became immediately capable of exercise.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the SLI Plan.
Annual report and accounts for the 99 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 Share-based payments continued vi BioChem Stock Option Plan BioChem Plan Following the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. on May 11, 2001, the BioChem Stock Option Plan was amended such that options over BioChem Pharma Inc. s common stock became options over Ordinary shares of Shire plc.
All BioChem Pharma Inc. options, which were not already exercisable, vested and became exercisable as a result of the acquisition.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the BioChem Stock Option Plan.
b Stock-settled share appreciation rights vii Portfolio Share Plan Part A Stock-settled share appreciation rights granted under the Portfolio Share Plan Part A are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
In respect of any award made to Executive Directors performance conditions will be based on relative total shareholder return.
Vesting will depend on relative total shareholder return performance against two comparator groups.
For one-third of the award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and for two-thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to Executive Directors will vest, the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Group is sufficient to justify this.
Where median performance is achieved, 1 33 3% of stock-settled share appreciation rights will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level will not be subject to performance conditions.
Once awards have vested, participants will have until the fifth anniversary of the date of grant to exercise their awards.
c Performance share plan viii Portfolio Share Plan Part B Performance share awards granted under the Portfolio Share Plan Part B are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
In respect of any award made to Executive Directors, performance conditions will be based on relative total shareholder return.
For one-third of an award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and for two-thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to Executive Directors will vest, the Committee must be satisfied 1 that the underlying performance of the Group is sufficient to justify this.
Where median performance is achieved, 33 3% of stock-settled share appreciation rights will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
In a period of ten years, not more than 10% of the issued share capital of Shire may be placed under option under any share scheme.
In addition, the following terms apply to options that may be granted under the various plans: 2000 Executive Scheme: the maximum number of Shire plc Ordinary shares over which incentive options may be granted under Part 3 of the scheme is 25,000,000: and Share Purchase Plan: up to 2,000,000 Shire plc Ordinary shares.
The maximum term and vesting period of awards granted and outstanding as at December 31, 2006 is summarised below: Expiration Compensation Number of period from type awards date of issue Vesting period Executive Scheme Stock options 663,993 7 to 10 years 3 years, subject to performance criteria 2000 Executive Scheme Stock options 16,955,079 10 years 3 years, subject to performance criteria Sharesave Scheme Stock options 359,004 6 months after vesting 3 or 5 years Stock Purchase Plan Stock options 738,515 On vesting date 27 months SLI Plan Stock options 10 years Immediate on acquisition by the Group BioChem Plan Stock options 843,282 10 years Immediate on acquisition by the Group Total share option schemes 19,559,873 Portfolio Share Plan Part A Stock-settled share 2,919,223 5 years 3 years, subject to performance appreciation rights criteria for Executive Directors only Ordinary shares Portfolio Share Plan Part A Stock-settled share 8,897,394 5 years 3 years, subject to performance i appreciation rights ADSs criteria for Executive Directors only Total Portfolio Share Plan Part A 11,816,617 Portfolio Share Plan Part B Performance shares 130,406 3 years 3 years, subject to performance Ordinary shares criteria for Executive Directors only Portfolio Share Plan Part B Performance shares 526,023 3 years 3 years, subject to performance i ADSs criteria for Executive Directors only Total Portfolio Share Plan Part B 656,429 i For the purposes of this table the ADSs have been converted into Ordinary shares.
One ADS is equivalent to three Ordinary shares.
100 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 Share-based payments continued Options outstanding as of December 31, 2006 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted average average Weighted exercise price exercise price Exercise average of options Number of of options prices remaining outstanding options exercisable Number of options outstanding life exercisable 2,518,812 0.014.00 6.0 3.51 2,387,588 3.50 11,981,596 4.016.00 7.4 5.39 773,918 4.45 3,323,340 6.0110.00 5.7 7.02 920,110 7.39 1,736,125 10.0113.00 3.0 11.82 1,660,490 11.87 19,559,873 5,742,106 Stock-settled share appreciation rights over Ordinary shares outstanding as at December 31, 2006 have the following characteristics: Weighted average Weighted Weighted exercise price average Exercise average of options Number of exercise price prices remaining outstanding options of options Number of options outstanding life exercisable exercisable 2,919,223 6.0110.10 4.5 8.54 Stock-settled share appreciation rights over American depositary shares outstanding as at December 31, 2006 have the following characteristics: Weighted average Weighted Weighted exercise price average Exercise average of options Number of exercise price prices remaining outstanding options of options Number of options outstanding $ life $ exercisable exercisable 2,965,798 35.0150.00 4.4 46.5 Options and stock-settled share appreciation rights granted in the period under plans without market conditions were valued using the BlackScholes option-pricing model.
Grants in the year under plans with market conditions were valued using a binomial model.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: 2006 2005 Weighted-average share price at grant dates 8.77 6.29 Weighted-average share exercise price 8.61 6.23 Shares under option 10,018,948 12,004,477 Vesting period years 2.255 2.255 Expected volatility 2437% 3250% Option life years 2.255 2.2510 Expected life years 2.255 2.257 Risk free interest rate 4.664.96% 3.934.59% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 0.5% 0.6% Estimated annual forfeiture rate 5% 5% Average fair value per option 2.87 2.98 The weighted average expected volatility is based on historical volatility of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
In addition to equity-settled share-based schemes discussed above, the Group operates a cash-settled share-based scheme for senior executives, the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The Long-Term Incentive Plan the Plan was adopted at the Companys 1998 AGM and amended in 2000.
Under the Plan, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to make awards of shares subject to a maximum of 100% of salary per year.
The performance condition attached to the vesting of the share awards made under the Plan is Shires Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to the FTSE 100 Index over a three-year period.
The Committee considers that this measure is a reliable and appropriate measure of the Groups performance and that the FTSE 100 is an appropriate benchmark given that the Company is a member of the Index.
Annual report and accounts for the 101 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 Share-based payments continued Under this Plan: all shares vest if Shires TSR is in the top 10% of the FTSE 100: 20% of the shares vest if Shires TSR is at the median of the FTSE 100, with vesting between these points on a linear basis: and no shares vest if Shires TSR is below the median of the FTSE 100.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether and to what extent the performance condition has been met on the basis of data provided by an independent third party.
To date, all awards made under the Plan have been made as a conditional allocation, thereby allowing, at the Remuneration Committees discretion, for a cash equivalent to be paid on maturity of the award.
Whilst the performance period is measured over three years, an award is normally transferred after the fourth anniversary of grant, to the extent the performance condition has been met.
For awards made under the LTIP prior to June 2001, performance is measured over a three-year period but the performance conditions are based on criteria of i 50% TSR benchmarked against FTSE mid-250 index and ii 50% subject to an EPS condition measured against the diluted EPS of the Group for the financial year ended before the commencement of the performance period and the diluted EPS of the Group for the financial year ended on or before the end of the performance period.
For awards made on March 1, 2000 the Committee determined that 44.84% of the part of the award subject to TSR performance measures and 100% of the part of the award subject to EPS performance measures could be transferred, resulting in 72.42% of the total award being transferred to participants.
These calculations were veried by external advisers.
The total liability under the LTIP scheme is $8.1 million 2005: $2.5 million and is included in trade and other payables as disclosed in Note 29.
There were no liabilities outstanding for which the right to cash had vested at the year-end.
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans was $20.4 million 2005: $27.4 million, all of which related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
34 Treasury shares The Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP reserve arises in connection with the ESOP trust, a discretionary trust established to facilitate the operation of the Groups long-term incentive scheme for senior management.
The amount of the reserve represents the deduction in arriving at shareholders funds for the consideration paid for the Companys shares purchased by the trust which had not vested unconditionally to employees at the balance sheet date.
The Deferred Bonus Plan the Plan provides for participants to use up to 50% of their annual bonus to buy shares in the Company.
The Group will match any shares bought, but the matched shares will vest, for Executive Directors, only if the Groups EPS grows by more than 15% in excess of RPI over a three-year period 9% in excess of RPI for other eligible employees.
Recent scal changes in the US have made the Plan less attractive to participants and the Remuneration Committee discontinued the Plan after bonus awards for the 2004 financial year.
The number and market value of the Ordinary shares held by the ESOP trust at December 31 was: 2006 2005 Number Market value Number Market value 000 $ million 000 $ million Shares allocated but not vested 51 1.1 51 0.6 Unallocated shares 5,735 118.6 198 2.5 5,786 119.7 249 3.1 102 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35 Shareholders funds and statement of changes in shareholders equity Capital Share Share Treasury Exchangeable reduction Other Retained capital premium shares shares reserve reserve earnings Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Balance at January 1, 2006 restated 42.7 3.0 2.8 101.2 2,946.5 2,099.7 1,109.0 4,081.3 Foreign currency translation differences 26.7 26.7 Unrealized holding gain on available-for-sale securities 1.8 1.8 Net income recognized directly in equity 24.9 24.9 Employee share option scheme: value of employee services 20.4 20.4 proceeds from shares issued 0.8 81.2 82.0 Exchange of exchangeable shares 0.2 41.5 41.7 Purchase of treasury shares 92.0 92.0 Dividends 32.4 32.4 Tax benefit associated with exercise of stock options 5.0 5.0 profit for the year 56.2 56.2 Balance at December 31, 2006 43.7 125.7 94.8 59.5 2,946.5 2,099.7 1,034.9 4,145.4 The cumulative foreign exchange differences on translation amount to a $31.9 million gain as at December 31, 2006 2005: $5.2 million gain.
i Capital Restated i Share Share Treasury Exchangeable reduction Capital Other Retained Restated capital premium shares shares reserve reserve reserve earnings Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Balance at January 1, 2005 36.1 4,883.2 0.3 195.8 4.7 36.1 910.8 4,244.8 Effect of Scheme of Arrangement 2,889.5 4,883.2 4.7 1,998.4 Effect of capital reduction 2,883.8 2,883.8 Balance at January 1, 2005 restated 41.8 0.3 195.8 2,883.8 2,034.5 910.8 4,244.8 Foreign currency translation differences 28.8 28.8 Unrealized holding gain on availablefor-sale securities 9.2 9.2 Net income recognized directly in equity 19.6 19.6 Employee share option scheme: value of employee services 27.4 27.4 proceeds from shares issued 0.4 3.0 26.3 7.5 37.2 Exchange of exchangeable shares 0.5 94.6 36.4 57.7 Purchase of treasury shares 2.5 2.5 Dividends 28.5 28.5 Tax benefit associated with exercise of stock options 1.7 1.7 Loss for the year 179.2 179.2 Balance at December 31, 2005 42.7 3.0 2.8 101.2 2,946.5 2,099.7 1,109.0 4,081.3 i Restated to reect the allocation of the cost of the acquisition of TKT.
The capital and other reserves arose in relation to various Group reconstructions and certain nancing transactions.
Annual report and accounts for the 103 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 36 Cash generated from operations i Restated For the For the year ended year ended December 31, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million profit loss for the year 56.2 179.2 profit for the year from discontinued operations 40.6 3.1 Adjustments for: Taxation 114.0 38.5 Finance costs 27.0 12.4 Investment revenues 50.5 35.3 Share of post tax profit from associates and joint ventures 5.8 1.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 40.4 23.0 Amortization of intangible assets 81.5 51.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.5 6.4 Impairment of intangible assets 1.1 4.4 Impairment of goodwill 271.9 527.0 Movements in financial assets 2.2 2.0 profit loss on disposal of non-financial assets 0.8 0.1 profit on disposal of financial assets 4.1 Gain on sale of drug formulation business 3.5 Gain on sale of product rights 63.0 Stock option compensation 20.4 27.4 Operating cash ows before movements in working capital 454.5 468.3 Decrease in inventories 7.2 8.5 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 4.6 146.7 Decrease increase in other assets 0.7 0.7 Increase in trade and other payables 107.7 144.0 Decrease in deferred income 1.8 13.5 Cash ow from discontinued operations 0.3 Cash generated from operations 572.9 459.6 Interest paid 2.3 4.3 Income tax paid 5.6 54.1 Net cash ows from operating activities 565.0 401.2 i Restated to reect the allocation of the cost of the acquisition of TKT.
Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single category of assets on the face of the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
104 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 37 Guarantees, commitments and contingencies a Leases The Group leases property, computer and ofce equipment and motor vehicles on short-term operating leases.
The rents payable under property leases are subject to renegotiation at various intervals specified in the leases.
The Group pays for substantially all of the insurance, maintenance and repair of these assets.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Land and Motor buildings Equipment vehicles Total 2006 $ million $ million $ million $ million Not later than 1 year 23.4 0.6 2.1 26.1 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 61.5 1.1 11.4 74.0 Later than 5 years 43.7 43.7 128.6 1.7 13.5 143.8 Land and Motor buildings Equipment vehicles Total 2005 $ million $ million $ million $ million Not later than 1 year 18.8 1.5 2.8 23.1 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 75.0 1.8 7.6 84.4 Later than 5 years 50.0 50.0 143.8 3.3 10.4 157.5 The future aggregate payments for land and buildings include $52.6 million in respect of operating leases expiring in 2016 on the Groups new headquarters in Wayne, Pennsylvania.
b Guarantees and collateral At December 31, 2006 the Group had $6.7 million 2005: $5.5 million of restricted cash held as collateral for certain equipment leases.
c Letters of credit As at December 31, 2006 the Group had the following letters of credit: i an irrevocable standby letter of credit with Barclays Bank plc, in the amount of $14.2 million 2005: $15.0 million, providing security on the recoverability of insurance claims.
The Group has restricted cash of $15.3 million 2005: $15.0 million, as required by this letter of credit: and ii an irrevocable standby letter of credit with Bank of America in the amount of $7.8 million 2005: $7.9 million, providing security on the payment of lease obligations.
The Group has restricted cash of $7.8 million 2005: $7.9 million, as required by this letter of credit.
d Financial commitments i DAYTRANA In connection with the Groups acquisition in 2003 from Noven Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Noven of the worldwide sales and marketing rights to DAYTRANA, Shire has a remaining obligation to pay Noven up to $50 million, contingent on future sales performance.
DAYTRANA received final regulatory approval from the US Food and Drug Administration FDA on April 6, 2006 and as a result Shire paid a $50 million milestone to Noven.
During the year, the Group also reached a sales milestone for DAYTRANA and as a result, Shire will make a payment to Noven of $25 million in 2007.
Both amounts have been capitalized and amortization of these amounts, together with the upfront milestone payment of $25 million made in 2003, will continue over the estimated life of the product of approximately ten years.
ii VYVANSE In January 2005, Shire entered into an agreement with New River to collaborate in developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling VYVANSE in the US.
In the rest of the world, Shire acquired the license to develop and commercialize VYVANSE, in consideration of a low double-digit royalty.
Under the terms of the agreement, the parties will collaborate on VYVANSE development, manufacturing, marketing and sales in the US.
New River will be nancially and operationally responsible for clinical and manufacturing development.
Shire will book the product sales and New River will supply up to 25% of the sales effort under a co-promotion right.
Shire is obligated to give VYVANSE marketing and promotional priority over its other oral ADHD stimulants should VYVANSEs label contain a claim that it has decreased potential for abuse or overdose protection.
Shire paid an initial sum of $50 million on signing and a further $50 million was paid to New River following acceptance of the ling of a NDA by the FDA in January 2006.
If VYVANSE is approved with a Schedule III, IV or V classication or is unscheduled favorable scheduling, Shire will pay New River a $300 million milestone payment.
US operating profit will be divided as follows: Shire will retain 75% of profits for the first two years following launch, and the parties will share the profits equally thereafter.
Annual report and accounts for the 105 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 37 Guarantees, commitments and contingencies continued In the event that VYVANSE receives a final Schedule II classication, no milestone payment will be payable by Shire to New River upon approval.
Division of profits will be calculated under an alternative profit sharing scheme.
New Rivers share of US product profits for the first two years will be at least 25%, though it may increase to a value determined by a preset sales based formula: for following years, it will be at least 50%, though it may increase to a value determined by a preset sales based formula thereafter.
These formulas, which include yearly threshold sales, are set out in Exhibit 99.02 to the Groups Form 8-K led on October 10, 2006.
If VYVANSE is classied as Schedule II on approval and then gets favorable scheduling within one year of the first commercial sale, Shire will pay New River a $200 million milestone payment: if favorable scheduling occurs by the third anniversary, the milestone payment will be $100 million.
Upon favorable scheduling being achieved under each of these scenarios, the profit sharing formula reverts to that applicable to favorable scheduling.
In addition, New River will be entitled to a $100 million milestone payment at the end of the first calendar year in which cumulative worldwide net sales of all collaboration products during that calendar year exceed $1 billion.
A $5 million milestone payment is payable following the first commercial sale in specified European countries.
Shire intends to capitalize and amortize any milestone payments over the life of the product.
Shire is entitled to terminate the agreement until 30 days following approval of VYVANSE.
If Shire terminates before regulatory approval, no payment would be due to Shire.
If Shire terminates after approval and VYVANSE has received a favorable scheduling assignment, no payment would be due to Shire.
If the approved VYVANSE has received a Schedule II classication, Shire would be entitled to a $50 million termination payment, payable in cash, New River common stock, or an unsecured, five-year promissory note, as will be agreed upon by Shire and New River.
On February 20, 2007 the Company announced that it had agreed to acquire New River for $2.6 billion in cash.
On completion of the acquisition of New River, Shire will terminate these commitments.
For further information see Note 41. iii Womens Health Products Shire and Duramed entered into an agreement related to Durameds transvaginal ring technology that will be applied to at least five womens health products, as well as a license in a number of markets outside of North America, including the larger European markets to Durameds oral contraceptive, SEASONIQUE.
This agreement became effective on September 6, 2006.
Under this agreement, Shire will reimburse Duramed for US development expenses incurred going forward up to a maximum of $140 million over eight years.
US development expenditure reimbursement for the year ended December 31, 2006 totaled $2.5 million, with $2.0 million due for reimbursement at December 31, 2006.
At December 31, 2006, the maximum future reimbursement for Duramed incurred US development expenditure is therefore $137.5 million.
Shire will separately be responsible for development costs in its licensed territories.
iv Tissue Protective Cytokine TPC technology development rights In connection with the Groups licence of TPC rights in non-nervous system indications from Warren, the Group is committed to making payments on achievement of certain milestones.
The Group is not required to make any payments to Warren upon regulatory approval of the first product for the first indication.
However, it is obligated to make milestone payments to Warren of $25 million upon regulatory approval in up to five subsequent major indications.
v Other R&D and sales milestones In addition to the commitments set out in i to iv above, at December 31, 2006 the Group had commitments payable on achievement of specified milestones and fees payable for products under development in-licensed from third parties, of $75.6 million December 31, 2005: $18.0 million of which $12.9 million could be paid in 2007. vi TKT shareholders seeking appraisal rights As at December 31, 2006 appraisal rights had been asserted in respect of approximately 11.3 million shares of TKT common stock.
For further information see section d below.
At December 31, 2006 the Group recorded a liability of $419.9 million based on the merger consideration of $37 per share for the 11.3 million shares outstanding at that time plus a provision for interest of $32.4 million that may be awarded by the Court see Note 13.
Until such time as the appraisal process is complete the Group is unable to determine the extent of its liability.
For every $1 increase decrease in the merger consideration applicable to those TKT shareholders who have asserted appraisal rights, the total estimated purchase price would increase decrease by approximately $11.3 million.
vii Clinical testing As at December 31, 2006 the Group had committed to pay approximately $55.0 million to contract vendors for administering and executing clinical trials.
The Group expects to pay $36.1 million for these commitments throughout 2007.
However, the timing of payments is not reasonably certain as payments are dependent upon actual services performed by the organizations as determined by patient enrollment levels and related activities.
viii Contract manufacturing As at December 31, 2006 the Group had committed to pay approximately $83.4 million in respect of contract manufacturing, of which $64.5 million will be payable in 2007 and a further $18.9 million will be payable in 2008. ix Investment commitments As at December 31, 2006 the Group had outstanding commitments to subscribe for interests in companies and partnerships for amounts totaling $15.9 million 2005: $25.2 million which could be payable in 2007, depending on the timing of capital calls.
106 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 37 Guarantees, commitments and contingencies continued x Manufacturing facilities At December 31, 2006, the Group has committed to spend $0.8 million in 2006 in respect of capital commitments.
This relates to the expansion and modication of its manufacturing facilities at Owings Mills, Maryland.
e Contingent liabilities The Group is involved in various legal proceedings, including those set out below.
Although there can be no assurance regarding the outcome of any of the legal proceedings referred to below, Shire believes that they will not have a materially adverse effect on the Groups reported financial position.
ADDERALL XR i Barr Laboratories, Inc. Shires extended release once daily version of ADDERALL, ADDERALL XR is covered by US Patent No.
6,322,819 the 819 Patent and US Patent No.
In January 2003 the Group was notied that Barr had submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg, 25mg and 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR Barrs ANDA products prior to the expiration date of the Groups 819 Patent, and alleging that the 819 Patent is not infringed by Barrs ANDA products.
In August 2003 Shire was notied that Barr also was seeking permission to market its ANDA products prior to the expiration date of the 300 Patent and alleging that the 300 Patent is invalid.
Shire Laboratories, Inc, Shire Laboratories led suit against Barr for infringement of the 819 Patent in February 2003 and for infringement of the 300 Patent in September 2003.
The schedules for the lawsuits against Barr with respect to the 819 and 300 Patents were consolidated in December 2003.
The Group sought a ruling that Barrs ANDA and ANDA products infringe the 819 and 300 Patents and that its ANDA should not be approved before the expiration date of the patents.
The Group also sought injunctions to prevent Barr from commercializing its ANDA products before the expiration of the 819 and 300 Patents, damages in the event that Barr should engage in such commercialization, and its attorneys fees and costs.
On September 27, 2004 Barr led an amended Answer, Afrmative Defense and Counterclaim in which Barr added the following counterclaims: invalidity of the 819 patent, non-infringement of the 300 Patent and unenforceability of the 819 and 300 Patents due to inequitable conduct.
Shire asserted afrmative defenses, alleging, among other things, that Barr has waived its right to assert the counterclaims set forth in its September 27, 2004 amended Answer.
Under the Courts schedule summary judgment motions were to be led and fully briefed by October 14, 2005.
Neither Shire nor Barr led summary judgment motions.
On December 9, 2005, the Court continued the final pre-trial conference to March 10, 2006.
Shires lawsuits triggered stays of final FDA approval of Barrs ANDA of up to 30 months from the date of the Groups receipt of Barrs notice letters.
The second and final 30 month stay related to the lawsuit regarding the 300 Patent expired on February 18, 2006.
As the stay has expired, the FDA may approve Barrs ANDA, subject to satisfaction by Barr of the FDAs requirements.
The FDA has not approved Barrs ANDA at this time.
On October 19, 2005 Shire brought another lawsuit against Barr in the Southern District of New York alleging infringement of US Patent No.
The Group sought an injunction to prevent Barr from infringing the 768 Patent, damages in the event that Barr should commercialize its ANDA products, attorneys fees and costs.
Barr moved to dismiss this action asserting that there was no subject matter jurisdiction.
A hearing on this motion was held on February 17, 2006.
The Court never ruled on this motion.
During October 2005 Shire led a Citizen Petition with the FDA requesting that the FDA require more rigorous bioequivalence testing or additional clinical testing for generic or follow-on drug products that reference ADDERALL XR before they can be approved.
Shire believes that these requested criteria will ensure that generic formulations of ADDERALL XR or follow-on drug products will be clinically effective and safe.
In January 2006 Shire led a supplemental amendment to its original Citizen Petition, which included additional clinical data in support of the original ling.
On April 20, 2006 Shire received correspondence from the FDA informing Shire that the FDA has not yet resolved the issues raised in Shires pending ADDERALL XR Citizen Petition.
The correspondence states that, due to the complex issues raised requiring extensive review and analysis by the FDAs ofcials, a decision cannot be reached at this time.
The FDAs interim response is in accordance with FDA regulations concerning Citizen Petitions.
On August 14, 2006, Shire and Barr announced that all pending litigation in connection with Barrs ANDA and its attempt to market generic versions of Shires ADDERALL XR had been settled.
As part of the settlement agreement, Barr entered into consent judgments and agreed to permanent injunctions conrming the validity and enforceability of Shires 819, 300 and 768 Patents.
Barr has also admitted that any generic product made under its ANDA would infringe the 768 patent.
Under the terms of the settlement, Barr will not be permitted to market a generic version of ADDERALL XR in the US until April 1, 2009 except for certain limited circumstances, such as the launch of another partys generic version of ADDERALL XR.
No payments to Barr are involved in the settlement agreement.
Shire and Duramed, a subsidiary of Barr, entered into an agreement related to Durameds transvaginal ring technology that will be applied to at least five womens health products, as well as a license to Durameds currently marketed oral contraceptive, SEASONIQUE levonorgestrel ethinyl estradiol tablets 0.15mg 0.03mg and ethinyl estradiol tablets 0.01mg the product development and license agreement.
Shire was granted exclusive rights to market these products on a royalty-free basis in a number of markets outside of North America including the larger European markets.
Duramed will market these products in North America.
SEASONIQUE is already marketed in the US by Duramed but Shire will need to obtain appropriate regulatory authorisations to commence marketing this product in Europe.
Under this agreement, Shire made an initial payment of $25 million to Duramed on September 13, 2006 for previously incurred product development expenses, and will reimburse Duramed for development expenses incurred going forward up to a maximum of $140 million over eight years, with the amount capped at $30 million per annum.
Annual report and accounts for the 107 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 37 Guarantees, commitments and contingencies continued The settlement agreement and the product development and license agreement became effective upon the Courts signing the last of the consent judgments for the litigations on September 6, 2006.
Duramed agreed to purchase Shires ADDERALL immediate-release mixed amphetamine salts product for $63 million.
Shire reported the transaction to the FTC and the DOJ under the Hart Scott Rodino HSR Act on August 28, 2006.
The HSR Acts 30-day waiting period expired on September 27, 2006 and the transaction closed on September 29, 2006.
As required by law, Shire submitted to the FTC and the DOJ all of the agreements with Barr and its subsidiaries that were entered into on August 14, 2006.
On October 3, 2006, the FTC notied Shire that it is reviewing the settlement agreement with Barr.
While the Group has not received any requests for information regarding the settlement agreement, Shire intends on cooperating with the FTC should it receive any such requests.
The FTCs review should not be considered to be an indication that Shire or any other Group violated any law, and Shire believes that the settlement agreement is in compliance with all applicable laws.
In November 2003, Shire was notied that Impax had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of the 30mg strength of ADDERALL XR Impaxs ANDA product prior to the expiration date of the 819 and 300 Patents.
In December 2003, Shire Laboratories led suit against Impax for infringement of the 819 and 300 Patents.
In December 2004, Shire received an additional notication from Impax advising of the ling of an amendment to its ANDA for a generic version of the 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg and 25mg strengths of ADDERALL XR in addition to the 30mg strength, the subject of Impaxs initial ANDA submission.
In January 2005, Shire Laboratories led suit against Impax for infringement of the 819 and 300 Patents by these lower strength dosage forms: this suit was consolidated with the earlier case against Impax.
As part of the October 19, 2005 lawsuit against Barr, Shire also brought suit in the Southern District of New York against Impax for infringing the 768 Patent.
Impax led a declaratory judgment action in Delaware alleging that the 768 Patent was invalid and that its ANDA did not infringe the 768 Patent.
On January 19, 2006, Shire and Impax announced that all pending litigation in connection with Impaxs ANDA had been settled.
As part of the settlement, Impax confirmed that its proposed generic products infringe Shires 819, 300 and 768 Patents and that the three patents are valid and enforceable.
Under the terms of the settlement agreement, Impax will be permitted to market generic versions of ADDERALL XR in the US no later than January 1, 2010 and will pay Shire a royalty from those sales.
In certain situations, such as the launch of another generic version of ADDERALL XR, Impax may be permitted to enter the market as Shires authorized generic.
No payments to Impax are involved in the settlement agreement.
The settlement agreement, which was effective immediately, has been submitted to the US Federal Trade Commission for its review, as required by law.
In December 2004, Shire was notied that Colony Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Colony had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg, 25mg and 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration date of the Groups 819 and 300 Patents.
Shire has chosen not to sue Colony.
In March 2007, Shire LLC led suit in the District Court of Maryland against Colony for infringement of the Groups 819, 300 and 768 Patents.
iv Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.
In February 2005, Shire was notied that Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Teva Pharmaceuticals had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 10mg and 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration date of the Groups 819 and 300 Patents.
In June 2005, Shire was notied that Teva Pharmaceuticals had amended its ANDA to seek permission to market additional strengths of 5mg, 15mg and 20mg of its generic ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration of the 819 and 300 Patents.
In January 2006, Shire received a third notice letter that Teva Pharmaceuticals had further amended its ANDA to seek permission to market the 25mg strength generic version of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration of the 819 and 300 Patents.
On March 2, 2006 Shire led a lawsuit in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. Teva Israel and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. Teva USA collectively Teva alleging that all of Tevas ANDA products infringe both the 819 and the 300 Patents.
The lawsuit triggered a stay of FDA approval of Tevas 25mg strength product for 30 months from the date of the Groups receipt of Tevas third notice letter.
There is no such stay with respect to Tevas 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg and 30mg strengths versions of ADDERALL XR.
On January 30, 2007 the case was transferred to the civil suspense docket with an Order requiring the parties to notify the Court of the status of the case on the first business day of every month.
No trial date has been set.
108 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 37 Guarantees, commitments and contingencies continued v Andrx Pharmaceuticals, LLC In September 2006, Shire was notied that Andrx Pharmaceuticals, LLC Andrx had submitted a ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg, 25mg and 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration date of the Groups 819 and 300 patents.
Shire Laboratories and Shire LLC.
have led lawsuits in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey and the Southern District of Florida against Andrx Pharmaceuticals, LLC.
and Andrx Corporation collectively Andrx for infringement of the Groups 819 and 300 Patents.
Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. the recent acquiror of Andrx, is also named in the lawsuits.
The lawsuits allege that all of Andrxs generic strengths infringe the patents in suit.
Pursuant to Hatch-Waxman legislation, there will be a 30-month stay with respect to Andrxs proposed generic products.
In December 2006, Shire was notied that Sandoz Inc. Sandoz had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg, 25mg, 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration of the Groups 819 and 300 patents.
On January 26, 2007 Shire led suit in the US District Court for the District of Colorado for infringement of the 819 and 300 patents.
The lawsuit triggers a stay of FDA approval of up to 30 months from the Groups receipt of Sandozs notice.
The court has ordered a scheduling and planning conference for March 21, 2007.
None of Colony, Andrx, Teva or Sandoz may launch their generic versions of ADDERALL XR before they receive final FDA approval of their respective ANDAs and before the expiration of the first to les exclusivity rights.
In August 2003, the Group was notied that Nostrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Nostrum had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of the 300mg strength of CARBATROL Nostrums ANDA product prior to the expiration date of the Groups US patents for CARBATROL, US patent No.
5,912,013 the 013 Patent and US patent No.
The notication alleges that the 013 and 570 Patents are not infringed by Nostrums ANDA product.
On September 18, 2003 Shire led suit against Nostrum in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging infringement of these two patents by Nostrums ANDA and ANDA product.
The Group was seeking a ruling that Nostrums ANDA infringes the 013 and 570 Patents and should not be approved before the expiration date of the 013 and 570 Patents.
The Group was also seeking an injunction to prevent Nostrum from commercializing its ANDA product before the expiration of the 013 and 570 Patents, damages in the event that Nostrum should engage in such commercialization, as well as its attorneys fees and costs.
On January 23, 2004, the Group amended the complaint to drop the allegations with respect to the 013 Patent while maintaining the suit with respect to the 570 Patent.
By way of counterclaims Nostrum is seeking a declaration that the 570 and 013 Patents are not infringed by Nostrums ANDA product.
Nostrum also was seeking actual and punitive damages for alleged abuse of process by Shire.
On July 12, 2004, the Court dismissed Nostrums abuse of process counterclaim for failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted.
On December 10, 2004, Nostrum led a summary judgment motion seeking a declaration of non-infringement of the 570 Patent, which Shire opposed.
The Court heard arguments with respect to Nostrums motion on July 15, 2005.
At the conclusion of the hearing the Court denied Nostrums motion for summary judgment of non-infringement.
On July 17, 2006 the Court entered an order staying discovery in this case until and through September 15, 2006.
The parties requested, and the Court granted, an extension of the stay of discovery until and through December 29, 2006.
On January 8, 2007 the parties requested a further stay discovery until March 30, 2007, which has not yet been granted by the Court.
Nostrum may not launch a generic version of CARBATROL before it receives final approval of its ANDA from the FDA.
The lawsuit triggered a stay of FDA approval of up to 30 months from Shires receipt of Nostrums notice letter.
The 30 month stay expired on February 6, 2006.
Following expiry of the stay, Nostrum could be in a position to market its 300mg extended-release carbamazepine product upon FDA final approval of its ANDA.
ii Corepharma LLC On March 30, 2006 the Group was notied that Corepharma LLC Corepharma had led an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of carbamazepine extended release products in 100mg, 200mg and 300mg strengths prior to the expiration date of the 013 and the 570 Patents.
On May 17, 2006, Shire led suit against Corepharma in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging infringement of these two patents by Corepharmas ANDA and ANDA products.
The Group was seeking a ruling that Corepharmas ANDA infringes the 013 and 570 Patents and should not be approved before their expiration dates.
The Group was also seeking an injunction to prevent Corepharma from commercializing its ANDA products before the expiration of the 013 and 570 Patents, damages in the event that Corepharma should engage in such commercialization, as well as its attorneys fees and costs.
On September 1, 2006 the Group amended the complaint to drop the allegations with respect to the 013 Patent while maintaining the suit with respect to the 570 Patent.
By way of counterclaims, Corepharma is alleging non-infringement and invalidity of the 570 Patent, non-infringement of the 013 Patent and federal and state antitrust violations.
The parties have agreed to, and the court has accepted, a dismissal without prejudice of the antitrust counterclaims until a final judgment has been entered in the patent case.
Corepharma has also led a motion for a judgment on the pleadings of non-infringement of the 013 Patent, which Shire has opposed, including moving to dismiss the 013 Patent non-infringement counterclaim for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.
The Court heard oral argument on these two motions on February 26, 2007, immediately after which the Court granted Shires motion to dismiss for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, rendering moot Corepharmas motion for non-infringement of the 013 Patent.
Annual report and accounts for the 109 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 37 Guarantees, commitments and contingencies continued The parties exchanged written discovery on January 26, 2007 and will appear before the Court for a status conference on March 13, 2007.
No further discovery schedule or trial date has been set.
Corepharma may not launch a generic version of CARBATROL before it receives final approval of its ANDA from the FDA.
The lawsuit triggered a stay of FDA approval of up to 30 months from Shires receipt of Corepharmas notice letter.
GENE ACTIVATION In 1996, Applied Research Systems Holding N. V. a wholly-owned subsidiary of Serono S. A. Serono and Cell Genesys became involved in a patent interference involving Seronos US Patent No.
5,272,071 the 071 Patent, which purportedly covers certain methods of gene activation.
In June 2004, the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences of the US Patent and Trademark Ofce PTO held that both Serono and Cell Genesys were entitled to certain claims in their respective patent and patent application, and Serono and Cell Genesys each appealed the decision of the interference to the US District Court of Massachusetts and the US District Court of the District Court of Columbia, respectively.
Shire HGT formerly known as TKT was not a party to this interference.
The District of Columbia action was subsequently transferred and consolidated with the District of Massachusetts action the Appeal.
In August 2004, Serono served Shire HGT with an amended complaint in the Appeal.
The amended complaint alleges that Shire HGT infringes Seronos 071 Patent.
In August 2005, the US District Court of Massachusetts severed and stayed the infringement action pending resolution of the interference claim of the Appeal at the District Court level.
Pre-trial proceedings concerning the Appeal between Serono and Cell Genesys are ongoing and Seronos infringement action against the Group remains stayed pending resolution of those proceedings.
In view of the stay, the Group has not yet answered Seronos compliant.
GA-GCB In January 2005, Genzyme Corporation Genzyme led suit against Shire HGT in the District Court of Tel Aviv-Jaffa, Israel, claiming that Shire HGTs Phase 1 2 clinical trial in Israel evaluating GA-GCB for the treatment of Gaucher disease infringes one or more claims of Genzymes Israeli Patent No.
In addition, Genzyme led a motion for preliminary injunction, including a request for an ex parte hearing and relief on the merits, to immediately seize and destroy all GA-GCB being used to treat patients and to prevent Shire HGT from submitting data generated from the clinical trial to regulatory agencies.
In March 2005 the District Court refused to grant Genzymes motion for a preliminary injunction.
The lawsuit was dismissed in January 2006.
DYNEPO Since 1997, Shire HGT and Sano-Aventis have been involved in ongoing patent litigation regarding Amgens allegations that DYNEPO infringes claims of five of Amgens patents.
In 2001, the US District Court of Massachusetts concluded that DYNEPO infringed certain claims of the patents that Amgen had asserted.
This decision was appealed to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit the Federal Circuit which afrmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded the action to the US District Court of Massachusetts for further proceedings.
In 2004, the US District Court of Massachusetts issued a decision on the remanded issues, nding that certain claims related to four of the patents asserted by Amgen are infringed by Shire HGT and Sano-Aventis.
This decision was subsequently appealed to the Federal Circuit which afrmed in part, reversed in part, and once again remanded certain issues to the District Court.
Recently, Amgen has led a request for an extension of time to le a petition for certiorari with the Supreme Court.
Under the most recent Federal Circuit decision, the Group and Sano-Aventis would be precluded from making, using and selling DYNEPO in the US until the expiration of the relevant patents.
The Group is required to reimburse Sano-Aventis, which controls the litigation and is paying the litigation expenses, for 50% of the expenses incurred in connection with the litigation from and after March 26, 2004.
This litigation has no impact on Shires ability to make, use and sell DYNEPO outside of the US.
Appraisal rights In connection with Shires merger with TKT, former holders of approximately 11.7 million shares of TKT common stock submitted written demands to the Delaware Court of Chancery for appraisal of these shares and, as a result, elected not to accept the $37 per share merger consideration.
On October 10, 2005, at the request of one of the holders to tender 365,000 shares at the merger price of $37 per share, TKT led a motion to dismiss the holders demand.
On October 12, 2005, the Delaware Court of Chancery granted this motion, and the holder tendered the shares at the merger consideration of $37 per share.
Therefore, as at December 31, 2006, former holders of approximately 11.3 million shares of TKT common stock maintained written demands for appraisal of these shares and have elected not to accept the $37 merger consideration.
In November 2005, the Delaware Court of Chancery approved a consolidation order led by Shire HGT whereby actions brought by all petitioners have been consolidated as one case.
In April 2006, Shire led a motion for partial summary judgment in respect of approximately eight million shares, claiming that the petitioners were not entitled to assert appraisal rights in connection with such shares.
110 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 37 Guarantees, commitments and contingencies continued To the extent that petitioners demands were validly asserted in accordance with the applicable requirements of Delaware law and the former holders perfect their rights thereunder, such former holders will be entitled to receive the fair value of these shares as determined by the Delaware Court of Chancery.
The determination of fair value will be made excluding any element of value arising from the transaction, such as cost savings or business synergies.
The total consideration for the acquisition of TKT, including amounts payable in respect of stock options and convertible securities, is approximately $1.6 billion at the merger price of $37 per share.
This could change if Shire is required to pay a different amount of consideration in respect of the approximately 11.3 million shares for which holders have asserted appraisal rights.
For every dollar increase decrease in the merger consideration applicable to those TKT shareholders who have asserted appraisal rights, the total estimated purchase price would increase decrease by approximately $11.3 million.
Until such time as the appraisal process is complete, the Group is unable to determine the extent of its liability.
Certain of the former TKT shareholders who have asserted appraisal rights led a second suit in the Delaware Court of Chancery on March 8, 2007 alleging, among other claims, breaches of duciary duty by TKT and certain members of its board in connection with the merger with Shire.
Both Shire and the former TKT are named as defendants, as are four of the five former directors of TKT who voted in favor of the merger.
The new complaint also asserts a claim that the merger itself was not properly approved by a majority of TKTs record shareholders, based on TKTs alleged inability to produce evidence documenting the vote.
The complaint seeks rescissory damages with interest, attorneys fees and costs.
Shire believes that this action is without merit and intends to vigorously defend itself.
In particular, Shire believes that petitioners claim challenging the approval of the merger is completely unfounded as a legal and factual matter.
Class Action Shareholder Suit In January and February 2003, various parties led purported securities fraud class action lawsuits against TKT and Richard Selden, TKTs former Chief Executive officer, in the US District Court for the District of Massachusetts.
In April 2003, the Court appointed a Lead Plaintiff and Lead Counsel and consolidated the various matters under one matter: In re Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. Securities Litigation, C. A.
In July 2003, the plaintiffs led a Consolidated and Amended Class Action Complaint the Amended Complaint against TKT: Dr Selden: Daniel Geffken, TKTs former Chief Financial officer: Walter Gilbert, Jonathan S. Leff, Rodman W. Moorhead, III, and Wayne P. Yetter, then members of TKTs board of directors: William R. Miller and James E. Thomas, former members of TKTs board of directors: and SG Cowen Securities Corporation, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Pacic Growth Equities, Inc. and Leerink Swann & Company, underwriters of TKTs common stock in prior public offerings.
The Amended Complaint alleges that the defendants made false and misleading statements and failed to disclose material information concerning the status and progress for obtaining US marketing approval of REPLAGAL during the period between January 4, 2001 and January 10, 2003.
The Amended Complaint asserts claims against Dr Selden and TKT under Section 10 b of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated there under: and against Dr Selden under Section 20 a of the Exchange Act.
The Amended Complaint also asserts claims based on TKTs public offerings of June 29, 2001, December 18, 2001 and December 26, 2001 against each of the defendants under Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933 and against Dr Selden under Section 15 of the Securities Act: and against SG Cowen Securities Corporation, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Pacic Growth Equities, Inc. and Leerink Swann & Company under Section 12 a 2 of the Securities Act.
The plaintiffs seek equitable and monetary relief, an unspecified amount of damages, with interest, and attorneys fees and costs.
In May 2004, the Court granted in part and denied in part TKTs motion to dismiss In particular, the Court dismissed allegations against TKT to the extent they arose out of certain forward-looking statements protected by the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and dismissed claims based on the public offerings of June 29, 2001 and December 18, 2001.
The Court allowed all other allegations to remain.
In July 2004, the plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed all claims based on the third public offering dated December 26, 2001.
In November 2005, the court granted the plaintiffs motion for class certication.
On May 23, 2005, the court entered judgment on all claims alleged against SG Cowen Securities Corporation, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Pacic Growth Equities, Inc. and Leerink Swann & Company.
On June 5, 2006 the court entered judgment on all claims alleged against Messrs. Gilbert, Leff, Moorhead, Yetter, Miller, and Thomas.
On November 9, 2006 Mr Geffken led an Agreement for Judgment on all claims alleged against him.
The Company is obligated to indemnify Dr Selden for his costs incurred in connection with the SEC Action.
Annual report and accounts for the 111 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 38 Principal subsidiaries The Company and the Group have investments in the following subsidiary undertakings which principally affected the results or net assets of the Group.
To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of investments which are not significant have been omitted.
ii Country Principal activity Holding % Shire LLC US Licensing, development, production and distribution of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire US, Inc.
US Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Pharmaceuticals Limited UK Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Pharmaceutical Contracts Limited UK Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire France SA France Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG Germany Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Italia SpA Italy Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Pharmaceuticals Iberica SL Spain Marketing and distribution of pharmaceuticals 100% i Shire Pharmaceuticals Group Limited UK Holding Company 100% Shire Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
US Management services company 100% Shire Development, Inc.
US Development of pharmaceuticals, including on behalf of other Group companies 100% Shire Regulatory, Inc.
US Development of pharmaceuticals, including on behalf of other Group companies 100% Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland Marketing and distribution of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire BioChem, Inc. Canada Marketing, research and development of pharmaceuticals, including on behalf of other Group companies 100% Shire International Licensing BV Netherlands Licensing and development of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Pharmaceutical Development Limited UK Development of pharmaceuticals, including on behalf of other Group companies 100% Shire Pharmaceuticals US Development, Inc.
US Development of pharmaceuticals, including on behalf of other Group companies 100% Shire Finance Limited Cayman Islands Issuer of convertible notes 100% Shire US Manufacturing, Inc.
US Manufacturer of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Human Genetic Therapies, Inc. formerly US Marketing, research and development of pharmaceuticals, including known as Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. on behalf of other Group companies 100% TKT Europe AB Sweden Marketing and distribution of pharmaceuticals 100% i Held directly by Shire plc.
All subsidiary undertakings have been included in the consolidated financial statements.
ii Country of incorporation or principal business address 112 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 39 Employees, directors and key management Staff The average monthly number of people employed by the Group during the year was as follows: 2006 2005 Number Number Manufacturing and distribution 584 384 Sales and marketing 1,299 994 General and administrative 429 300 Research and development 556 412 2,868 2,090 Aggregate remuneration of Directors The total amounts for remuneration and other benets were as follows: 2006 2005 $ million $ million Emoluments 6.0 4.3 Post-employment benets 0.5 0.5 Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes Termination benets Gains on exercise of share options 0.4 0.2 6.9 5.0 No fees were payable to third parties in respect of Directors services for either year.
The numbers of Directors who were members of Group retirement schemes were as follows: 2006 2005 Number Number Dened contribution schemes 2 2 Dened benefit scheme SERP 1 1 The above amounts for remuneration include the following in respect of the highest paid Director: 2006 2005 $ million $ million Aggregate emoluments 3.2 2.3 Pension contributions 0.4 0.3 3.6 2.6 Aggregate remuneration of key management The total amounts for remuneration and other benets were as follows: 2006 2005 $ million $ million Salaries and other short-term employee benets 14.9 8.7 Post-employment benets 1.3 0.8 Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes Termination benets Share-based payments 5.6 5.2 21.8 14.7 The key management gures given above include Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Annual report and accounts for the 113 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 40 Related-party transactions The Group incurred professional fees with Stikeman Elliott, a law rm in which the Hon James Grant is a partner, totaling $0.6 million for the year to December 31, 2006 2005: $0.5 million.
In April 2004, the Group contributed cash of $3.7 million CAD $5.0 million and equipment and intellectual property to the start-up of a new Canadian-based pharmaceutical research and development organization, ViroChem Pharma Inc. ViroChem, in return for an equity interest and royalties on the sale of certain products subsequently launched by ViroChem.
Dr Bellini, a Non-Executive Director of BioChem and, until May 10, 2003, a Non-Executive Director of Shire, had, at the time of the transaction, an indirect substantial interest in a company, which is a co-investor of ViroChem.
In April 2006 and April 2005, the Group contributed cash of $8.0 million CAD $9 million and $4.1 million CAD $5 million respectively to ViroChem in return for an additional equity interest.
The Group has undertaken to invest an additional $5.0 million CAD $6.0 million in ViroChem.
In October 2005, the Group sub-leased its ofce premises in Newport, Kentucky to Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. Dr James Cavanaugh, the Non-Executive Chairman of the Group, was the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. up to February 9, 2007 and remains a Board Director of Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. As a result of the transaction the Group will receive $7.8 million net of inducements in lease income over the sub-lease period from Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. 41 Post balance sheet events Acquisition of New River On February 20, 2007 Shire announced that it has agreed to acquire New River for $64 per New River share, or approximately $2.6 billion for the fully diluted equity interest, in an all cash transaction unanimously recommended by the Boards of both companies.
The acquisition is structured as a tender offer for all outstanding shares of New River followed by a merger.
The acquisition is subject to the approval of the Companys shareholders as well as the satisfaction of certain customary conditions, including the tender of a majority of the outstanding New River shares on a fully-diluted basis.
On March 19, 2007 the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period expired, satisfying one of the conditions of the tender offer.
For accounting purposes, the acquisition of New River will be accounted for as a purchase business combination in accordance with IFRS 3.
The total consideration for the acquisition of New River amounts to approximately $2.6 billion in cash.
Shire has entered into new bank facilities of $2.3 billion to provide part of the nancing for the acquisition.
This new facility is conditional upon, amongst other things, approval being given by Shire plcs shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting for the Company to exceed the limit on its aggregate borrowings set out in its Articles of Association.
The Company has also raised approximately $900 million through the private placement of 42,883,721 new Ordinary shares to certain institutional investors worldwide at a price of 1,075 pence per share.
The newly issued shares represent approximately 8.4% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital prior to the placing.
114 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc We have audited the individual Company financial statements of Shire Basis of audit opinion plc for the year ended December 31, 2006 which comprise the balance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards sheet and the related Notes A to J.
These individual company financial on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant out therein.
to the amounts and disclosures in the individual Company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates The corporate governance statement and the Directors remuneration and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the report are included in the Group annual report of Shire plc for the year individual Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting ended December 31, 2006.
We have reported separately on the Group policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently financial statements of Shire plc for the year ended December 31, 2006 applied and adequately disclosed.
and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the individual accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit company financial statements are free from material misstatement, work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, of information in the individual Company financial statements.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, Opinion for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the individual Company financial statements give a true and fair view, The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, individual company financial statements in accordance with applicable of the state of the Companys affairs as at December 31, 2006: law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
the individual Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Our responsibility is to audit the individual Company financial statements in accordance with relevant UK legal and regulatory the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the individual Company Deloitte & Touche LLP financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the individual Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Company financial statements have been properly prepared in Reading, UK accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you if, in our March 22, 2007 opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the individual Company financial statements.
We also report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the individual Company financial statements.
Annual report and accounts for the 115 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Company balance sheet UK GAAP As at December 31, 2006 As at As at December 31, December 31, 2006 2005 Note $ million $ million Fixed assets Intangible assets C 0.4 0.4 Investments D 3,111.5 3,088.8 3,111.9 3,089.2 Current assets Debtors due within one year E 62.9 13.6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year F 118.8 9.7 Net current assets 55.9 3.9 Net assets 3,056.0 3,093.1 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital G 43.7 42.7 Share premium H 125.7 3.0 Treasury shares H 94.8 Exchangeable shares H 59.5 101.2 Capital reduction reserve H 2,914.5 2,946.5 Other reserves H 22.7 profit and loss account H 15.3 0.3 Equity shareholders funds 3,056.0 3,093.1 These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on March 22, 2007 and signed on its behalf by: Angus Russell Director The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet.
116 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the Company balance sheet UK GAAP As at December 31, 2006 A Presentation of the financial statements Description of the business Shire plc is the parent company of the Shire Group, the principal activity of which is the research, development and marketing of prescription medicines.
Preparation of financial statements These financial statements are drawn up in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP as at December 31, 2006, with comparative gures as at December 31, 2005.
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of the Company is not presented in this annual report.
The Company reported a loss for the year ended December 31, 2006 of $15.4 million period from September 6, 2005 to December 31, 2005: loss of $0.4 million.
Accounting convention and standards The balance sheet has been prepared under the historical cost convention and complies with applicable UK accounting standards.
Accounting principles and policies The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with UK GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Actual amounts could differ from those estimates.
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the Companys accounting policies approved by the Board and described in Note B.
Directors emoluments and employees Details of Directors remuneration can be found in Note 39 and the Directors Remuneration Report of the Group accounts.
There was one employee of the Company in the period period from September 6, 2005 to December 31, 2005: one.
Details of the Groups share option schemes are contained in the Note 33 of the Group accounts.
The charge recorded by the Company during the period is $468,000 period from September 6, 2005 to December 31, 2005: $76,000 relating to one Director, being an apportionment of the Group charge.
Dividends Details of the dividends paid during the period can be found in Note 17 of the Group accounts.
Audit fees Details of the audit and non-audit fees payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP and their associates by the Company and the Group can be found in Note 7 of the Group accounts.
B Accounting policies Intangible assets brand name Intangible assets comprise the cost of acquiring a brand name, which has not been amortized as the end of its useful economic life cannot be foreseen.
Provision is made for any impairment.
Investments Investments held as xed assets are stated at cost or, if applicable under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985, the nominal value of the shares issued, less any provision for impairment.
Exchangeable shares The exchangeable shares are included as part of share capital in the Companys balance sheet to present a true and fair view of the Companys capital structure, which differs from the Companies Act 1985 requirements to reect these amounts as minority interests, as they will become, and are equivalent, to Ordinary shares.
Dividends paid and received Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognized as a liability in the Companys financial statements in the period in which the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
Expenditure Expenditure is recognized in respect of goods and services received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Annual report and accounts for the 117 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the Company balance sheet UK GAAP As at December 31, 2006 B Accounting policies continued Foreign currency transactions Items included in the financial statements of the Company are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates the functional currency.
These financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is the Companys functional and presentational currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet dates are reported at the rate of exchange prevailing at that date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net investments and on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in such operations, are reported in the statement of total recognized gains and losses.
Share-based compensation The Company operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options was valued using option pricing models.
Options granted without market-based performance conditions were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
Options granted with market-based performance conditions were valued using a binomial model.
In accordance with FRS 20 Share-based Payments, the resulting cost for the Companys employee is recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the options.
The cost for options granted to the Companys subsidiaries employees represents additional capital contributions by the Company in its subsidiaries.
An additional investment in subsidiaries has been recorded with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity.
The additional capital contribution is based on the grant date fair value of the options issued, allocated over the underlying grants vesting period.
The Company also provides its employee with the option to purchase the Companys Ordinary shares under the Shire Pharmaceuticals Sharesave Scheme at an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to the employee.
The Company provides finance to an ESOP Trust to purchase Company shares on the open market to meet the obligation to provide shares when employees exercise their options or awards.
Costs of running the ESOP Trust are charged to the income statement.
Shares held by the ESOP Trust are deducted from reserves.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classied according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognized in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognized in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognized only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not provided in timing differences arising on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax is measured at the rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
C Intangible assets As at As at December 31, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million At January 1, 0.4 Additions in the period 0.4 At December 31, 0.4 0.4 118 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the Company balance sheet UK GAAP As at December 31, 2006 D Fixed asset investments As at As at December 31, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million Shares in subsidiary undertakings At January 1, 3,088.8 Additions in the period 3,088.8 Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 22.7 At December 31, 3,111.5 3,088.8 On November 25, 2005 the Company acquired the share capital of Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc under the Scheme of Arrangement at a nominal value of 350 pence per share.
See Note I for further details.
Principal subsidiaries of the Group are shown in Note 38 of the Group accounts.
E Debtors As at As at December 31, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million Amounts due from Group undertakings 62.3 13.4 Other debtors 0.6 0.2 62.9 13.6 F Creditors: amounts falling due within one year As at As at December 31, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million Amounts owed to group undertakings 117.6 9.3 Other taxes and social security payable 0.6 0.3 Accruals and deferred income 0.6 Non-voting redeemable preference shares 0.1 118.8 9.7 The non-voting redeemable preference shares were issued at par on September 5, 2005 and were redeemed at par on November 1, 2006.
The rights and restrictions attached to the non-voting redeemable preference shares are set out below: a Income The holders of the non-voting redeemable preference shares shall, with effect from the date of adoption of these articles, have the right to receive, out of the profits of the Company available for distribution and resolved to be distributed, a xed non-cumulative preferential dividend at a rate of 5% per annum on the capital sum paid up thereon.
The non-voting redeemable preference shares shall rank for dividends in priority to any Ordinary shares in the capital of the Company including, but not limited to, the subscriber Ordinary shares from time to time in issue: b Capital The holders of the non-voting redeemable preference shares on a return of capital on liquidation or otherwise shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Company available for distribution among the members the amounts paid up on those shares, together with any accrued but unpaid dividend on those shares, in priority to any distribution to any holder of Ordinary shares in the Company including, but not limited to, the subscriber Ordinary shares from time to time in issue: Except as provided in a and b above, the holders of the non-voting redeemable preference shares shall not have any other right to participate in the profits or assets in the Company: Annual report and accounts for the 119 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements F Creditors: amounts falling due within one year continued c Redemption 1 Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company shall redeem the non-voting redeemable preference shares a at any time at the discretion of the Directors of the Company: or b at any time after the earlier of a reduction of capital of the Company implemented subsequently to the Scheme becoming effective or June 30, 2006 at the request of the holders of the non-voting redeemable preference shares and shall on redemption pay the nominal amount paid up thereon together with any accrued but unpaid dividend on those shares provided always that if the Company shall at any time be unable, by reason of any provision of the Companies Acts, to redeem the non-voting redeemable preference shares on the date specified by the directors or requested by the holders of the non-voting redeemable preference shares, then the Company shall redeem such shares as soon as it is able to comply with such provisions of the Companies Acts: 2 Subject to sub-paragraph c 1 above, any notice of redemption served shall specify the date xed for redemption and upon such date the holders of the non-voting redeemable preference shares shall present the certicate thereof in order that the same may be cancelled.
Upon such delivery the Company shall pay the holders the amount due to them in respect of such redemption.
d Transfer The Board may decline to register any transfer of any of the non-voting redeemable preference shares to any person they do not approve and decline to give any reason for that disapproval.
If the Board declines to register a transfer of any of the non-voting redeemable preference shares, they shall within two months after the date the transfer was lodged with the Company send to the transferee notice of their declining to register the transfer and the relevant instrument of transfer: and e Voting The holders of the non-voting redeemable preference shares shall have no right as such to receive notice of or attend any general meeting of the Company unless a resolution is to be proposed to wind up the Company or a resolution is to be proposed which varies, modies, alters or abrogates any of the rights of the non-voting redeemable preference shares.
G Share capital As at December 31, 2006: $ million Authorized 750,000,000 Ordinary shares of 5 pence each 64.6 10,000,000 Special voting shares of 0.00001 pence 64.6 Called-up and allotted 506,745,967 Ordinary shares of 5 pence each 43.7 As at December 31, 2005: Authorized 750,000,000 Ordinary shares of 5 pence each 64.6 10,000,000 Special voting shares of 0.00001 pence 64.6 Called-up and allotted 495,733,782 Ordinary shares of 5 pence each 42.7 Number $ million As at January 1, 2006 495,733,782 42.7 Issued on exchange of exchangeable shares 2,700,262 0.2 Issued on exercise of options for cash consideration 8,311,924 0.8 As at December 31, 2006 506,745,968 43.7 Number $ million As at 5 September 2005 2 Issued in Scheme of Arrangement 495,173,820 2,987.5 Capital Reduction 2,946.5 Issued on exercise of options for cash consideration 559,960 1.7 As at December 31, 2005 495,733,782 42.7 Details of the Capital Reduction are included in Note H below.
Details of the Companys shares under option are shown in Note 33 of the Group accounts.
120 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc H Movement on reserves Distributable reserves Capital Share Exchangeable Treasury Other reduction profit and premium shares shares reserves reserve loss account $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million As at January 1, 2006 3.0 101.2 2,946.5 0.3 Options exercised 81.2 Exchange of exchangeable shares 41.5 41.7 Purchase of treasury shares 94.8 Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 22.7 Share-based compensation 0.4 Transfer of distributable reserves 32.0 32.0 Dividends 32.0 Loss for period 15.4 As at December 31, 2006 125.7 59.5 94.8 22.7 2,914.5 15.3 On November 25, 2005, Shire plc, a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales Shire, became the holding company of Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc SPG pursuant to a scheme of arrangement under section 425 of the UK Companies Act 1985 that was approved by the High Court of Justice in England and Wales and the shareholders of SPG the Scheme of Arrangement.
Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement, Ordinary shares, each having a nominal value of 3.50, of Shire Shire Ordinary shares were exchanged for Ordinary shares, each having a nominal value of 5 pence of SPG SPG Ordinary shares, on a one-for-one basis.
As a result of the Scheme of Arrangement, SPG now renamed Shire Pharmaceuticals Group Limited is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shire.
On November 28, 2005 the High Court of Justice in England and Wales approved a reduction of Shires share capital to take effect on November 29, 2005, when the nominal value of each Shire Ordinary share was reduced from 350 pence to 5 pence.
This gave rise to a capital reduction reserve of $2,946.5 million which is distributable.
As at December 31, 2006 distributable reserves were $2,899.2 million.
I Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds As at As at December 31, December 31, 2006 2005 $000 $000 Balance as at January 1, 3,093.1 Loss for the period 15.4 0.4 Dividends 32.0 Employee share-based compensation: value of employee services 0.4 0.1 proceeds from shares issued 123.7 4.7 Exchange of exchangeable shares 41.7 Purchase of treasury shares 94.9 Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 22.7 Shares issued in Scheme of Arrangement 2,987.5 Issue of exchangeable shares 101.2 Balance as at December 31, 3,055.9 3,093.1 Annual report and accounts for the 121 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc J Post balance sheet events Acquisition of New River On February 20, 2007 Shire announced that it has agreed to acquire New River for $64 per New River share, or approximately $2.6 billion for the fully diluted equity interest, in an all cash transaction unanimously recommended by the Boards of both companies.
The Company has entered into new bank facilities of $2.3 billion to provide part of the nancing for the acquisition.
The Company has also raised approximately $900 million through the private placement of 42,883,721 new Ordinary shares to certain institutional investors worldwide at a price of 1075 pence per share.
122 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Shire head ofce and main operating locations UK Singapore Spain Shire plc Shire Pharmaceutical Contracts Ltd Shire Spain S. L. World Headquarters Singapore representative ofce Paseo Pintor Rosales num.
40 Hampshire International Business Park 77, Science Park Drive, Bajo Izda Chineham #02-10, CINTECH lll 28008 Madrid Basingstoke Singapore Science Park 1 Spain Hampshire RG24 8EP Singapore 118256 Tel 34 9 1550 0691 UNITED KINGDOM Republic of Singapore Fax 34 9 1549 3695 Tel 44 1256 894 000 Mobile: 65 9739 2568 Fax 44 1256 894 708 Tel 65 6775 3772 Shire Human Genetic Therapies SL Fax 65 6775 7032 Serrano 240 Shire Pharmaceuticals Ltd 28016 Madrid Hampshire International Business Park Germany Spain Basingstoke, Hampshire RG24 8EP Shire Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG Tel 34 91 458 9844 United Kingdom Siegburger Strae 229b Fax 34 91 457 2079 Tel 44 0 1256 894000 50679 Kln Fax 44 0 1256 894708 Deutschland Canada Tel 49 0 221 8 02 50 0 Shire BioChem Inc.
Suite 500 Shire plc Ville Saint-Laurent, Qubec H4S 2C9 US Headquarters Shire Human Genetic Therapies GmbH Canada 725 Chesterbrook Blvd.
Wayne, PA 19087- Am Weissen Berg 21 Tel 1 514 787 2300 5637 USA D-96193 Wachenroth Fax 1 514 787 2427 Tel 1 484 595 8800 Deutschland Fax 1 484 595 8200 Tel 49 0 9548 980 190 Belgium Fax 49 0 9548 980 191 Shire Belgium bvba Shire Human Genetic Therapies Lambroekstraat 5a 700 Main Street France 1831 Diegem Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139 Shire Human Genetic Therapies SAS and Belgium USA Shire France S. A. Tel 32 0 719 04 25 Tel 1 617 349 0200 88, rue du Dme Fax 32 0 719 00 10 Fax 1 617 613 4004 92514 Boulogne-Billancourt France Sweden Shire US Manufacturing Inc. Tel 33 1 46 10 90 00 Shire Human Genetic Therapies AB 11200 Gundry Lane Fax 33 1 46 08 21 49 Rinkebyvgen 11B Owings Mills, Maryland 21117 182 36 Danderyd USA Italy Sweden Tel 1 410 413 1000 Shire Italia S. p. A. Tel 46 8 544 964 00 Fax 1 410 413 2000 Corso Italia, 29 Fax 46 8 544 964 09 50123 Firenze Ireland Italy The Netherlands Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd Tel 39 055 288 860 Shire International Licensing BV 5 Riverwalk Fax 39 055 296 931 Olympic Plaza Citywest Business Campus Fred.
Roeskestraat 123-3 Dublin 24 Shire Human Genetic Therapies SRL 1074 EE Amsterdam Tel 00 353 1 429 7700 Via V. Monti, 8 PO Box 1070 AA Amsterdam Fax 00 353 1 429 7701 20123 Milano The Netherlands Italy Tel 39 02 46 71 22 46 Fax 39 02 48 01 32 33 Annual report and accounts for the 123 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Shareholder information Cautionary statements Registered ofce address US Shareholders Statements included herein that are not Hampshire International Business Park i ADSs historical facts are forward-looking Basingstoke, Hampshire RG24 8EP The Companys American Depository statements.
Such forward looking statements United Kingdom Shares ADSs, each representing three involve a number of risks and uncertainties Registered in England Ordinary shares, are listed on the NASDAQ and are subject to change at any time.
05492592 national market under the symbol SHPGY.
event such risks or uncertainties materialise, The Company les reports and other Shires results could be materially affected.
Investor relations documents with the Securities and Exchange The risks and uncertainties include, but are ROW: Cla Rosenfeld Commission SEC which are available for not limited to: risks associated with the inherent Tel 44 0 1256 894160 inspection and copying at the SECs public uncertainty of pharmaceutical research, Fax 44 0 1256 894708 reference facilities or can be obtained by product development, manufacturing and Email investorrelations@shire.
com writing to the Company Secretary.
commercialisation: the impact of competitive products, including, but not limited to the North America: Eric Rojas ii ADS Depositary impact of those on Shires ADHD franchise: Tel 1 484 595 8800 Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of patents, including but not limited to, legal Fax 1 484 595 8151 New York is the depositary for Shire plc challenges relating to Shires ADHD franchise: Email erojas@shire.
All enquiries concerning ADS records, government regulation and approval, including certicates or transfer of Ordinary shares but not limited to the expected product www.
com into ADSs should be addressed to: approval dates of SPD503 guanfacine extended release ADHD and SPD465 Registrars and transfer ofce JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. extended release of mixed amphetamine All administrative enquiries relating to c o Mellon Investor Services salts ADHD : Shires ability to complete, and shareholdings should be addressed PO Box 3500 achieve anticipated benets from, the to Lloyds TSB Registrars, clearly South Hackensack, NJ 07606-3500 acquisition of New River Pharmaceuticals, stating the registered shareholders Tel 1 800 990 1135 Inc. : Shires ability to secure new products for name and address.
commercialisation and or development: and Canadian Shareholders other risks and uncertainties detailed from Lloyds TSB Registrars i Exchangeable Shares of time to time in Shires lings with the Securities Customer Services, The Causeway Shire Acquisition Inc. and Exchange Commission, including its Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Exchangeable shares in Shire Acquisition Inc.
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year United Kingdom are convertible into three Ordinary shares of ended December 31, 2006.
Tel 44 870 600 3970 Shire or one ADS representing three Ordinary shares of Shire.
Exchangeable shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol SHQ.
Shires Ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and Shires ADSs are listed on the NASDAQ national market.
ii Trustee for Exchangeable Shareholders Computershare Trust Company of Canada acts as Trustee for Exchangeable Shareholders.
All enquiries concerning Exchangeable Share records or conversions of Exchangeable Shares into ordinary shares of Shire or ADSs should be addressed to: Computershare Trust Company of Canada 650, fide Maisonneuve Boul.
West, 7th oor, Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3A 3T2 Tel 1 800 564 6253 or 514 982 7555 Fax 514 982 7580 124 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Shire plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 6746 UK Cover 2006. qxd 16 5 07 15:12 Page fc1 Shire plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Hampshire International Business Park Shire plc Basingstoke, Hampshire RG24 8EP United Kingdom Tel 44 0 1256 894000 Fax 44 0 1256 894708 www.
com Question: How do you make a specialty biopharmaceutical company special?
