Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial financial statements.
The Directors have chosen to prepare accounts position of the Group, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities Standards IFRS and for the Company in accordance with UK and for the preparation of a Directors report and Directors Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Company remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the law requires the Directors to prepare Group financial statements in Companies Act 1985. accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Directors are required to prepare and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair other jurisdictions.
view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period and comply with UK GAAP and the Companies Act 1985.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Annual report and accounts for the 53 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc
