Significant accounting policies for the year ended 16 September 2006 Associated British Foods plc the Company is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 16 September 2006 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the group and the groups interest in associates and jointly-controlled entities.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 7 November 2006.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS.
These are the groups first consolidated financial statements prepared under Adopted IFRS and IFRS 1 has been applied.
An explanation of how the transition to Adopted IFRS has affected the reported financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the group is provided in note 34.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
These are presented on pages 111 to 118.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments, biological assets and other current investments are stated at their fair value.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Judgements made by management in the application of IFRS that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment next year are discussed in note 33.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised.
The financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings are prepared for the 52 weeks ended 16 September 2006, except that, to avoid delay in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, those of Australia, New Zealand, China, Poland and the North and South American subsidiary undertakings are made up to 31 August 2006.
Adjustments are made for significant transactions or events occurring between 31 August and 16 September.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied to all periods presented except where the policy relates to the implementation of the following Adopted IFRS, as permitted by IFRS 1: Business combinations the provisions of IFRS 3 have been applied from 3 September 2004.
The net carrying value of goodwill at 18 September 2004, after adjustment to include the acquisition of the US Herbs & Spices business on 3 September 2004 under IFRS, has been deemed to be the cost at 19 September 2004: Financial instruments the provisions of IAS 32 and IAS 39 have been adopted from 18 September 2005.
Comparatives have not been restated: Cumulative translation differences arising on consolidation of subsidiaries IAS 21 requires such differences to be held in a separate reserve rather than included in the profit and loss reserve under UK GAAP.
The translation reserve has been deemed to be nil on 19 September 2004: Share-based payments the measurement provisions of IFRS 2 have not been applied to share options granted prior to 7 November 2002 nor to any options that vested prior to 19 September 2004: Employee benefits pursuant to IAS 19, all cumulative actuarial gains and losses in relation to employee benefit schemes were recognised as at the date of transition of 19 September 2004: and Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations IFRS 5 has been early adopted from 19 September 2004.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the results of the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings from the date that control commences to the date that control ceases.
The consolidated financial statements also include the groups share of the results of its joint 52 Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2006 ventures and associates on an equity-accounted basis from the point at which joint control or significant influence respectively commences, to the date that it ceases.
Subsidiary undertakings are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
Associates are those entities in which the group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Business combinations On the acquisition of a business or an interest in a joint venture or associate, fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition.
Adjustments to fair values include those made to bring accounting policies into line with those of the group.
Revenue Revenue represents the net invoiced value of goods delivered to customers, excluding sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of the underlying products have been substantially transferred to the customer.
Revenue is stated net of price discounts, certain promotional activities and similar items.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are defined as items of income and expenditure which are material and unusual in nature and which are considered to be of such significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement in accordance with paragraphs 86 and 87 of IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements.
Foreign currencies In individual companies, transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting differences are taken to the income statement.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign operations that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange other than substantial transactions which are translated at the rate of exchange on the date of the transaction.
Differences arising from the retranslation of opening net assets of group companies, together with differences arising from the restatement of the net results of group companies from average or actual rates, to rates at the balance sheet date, are taken to the translation reserve.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The groups principal pension funds are defined benefit plans.
In addition the group has defined contribution plans and other unfunded post-employment liabilities.
For defined benefit plans, the amount charged in the income statement is the cost of vested benefits accruing to employees over the year, plus any benefit improvements granted to members by the group during the year.
It also includes a credit equivalent to the groups expected return on pension plan assets over the year, offset by a charge equal to the expected interest on plan liabilities over the year.
The difference between the market value of plan assets and the present value of plan liabilities is disclosed as an asset or liability on the consolidated balance sheet.
Any related deferred tax to the extent it is recoverable is disclosed separately on the consolidated balance sheet.
Any actuarial gains or losses are recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Contributions payable by the group in respect of defined contribution plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
Share-based payments: employee benefits The Share Incentive Plan allows executives to receive an allocation of shares to be received at the end of 2005 6 subject to attainment of certain financial performance criteria.
The fair value of the shares to be awarded is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the executives become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of the shares allocated is measured taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the shares were allocated.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest.
53 Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Significant accounting policies continued for the year ended 16 September 2006 The Share Option Scheme 1994 and Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 allow executives to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the executives become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a binomial lattice model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items taken directly to reserves.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, together with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than those acquired in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Financial instruments The group has adopted the exemption granted by IFRS 1 that IAS 32 and IAS 39 need not be applied to the comparative period.
Consequently the 2005 disclosure provided for financial instruments note 27 is in accordance with UK GAAP.
Under UK GAAP, forward foreign exchange contracts hedging transactional exposures were revalued at year end exchange rates with net unrealised gains and losses being deferred to match the maturity of the underlying exposures.
The accounting policies described below for financial instruments are applicable from 18 September 2005 and are in accordance with IFRS.
The effect of adopting these standards was to recognise a net derivative asset of 7m in the opening balance sheet refer to note 34.
Derivative financial instruments The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates and also to changes in the price of certain commodities used in the manufacture of its products.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at their fair value calculated using either discounted cash flows or option pricing models consistently applied for similar types of instrument.
Both techniques take into consideration assumptions based on market data.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are charged or credited to the income statement.
The purpose of hedge accounting is to mitigate the impact on the group of changes in exchange or interest rates and commodity prices, by matching the impact of the hedged item and the hedging instrument in the income statement.
To qualify for hedge accounting the hedging relationship must meet several conditions with respect to documentation, probability of occurrence, hedge effectiveness and reliability of measurement.
At inception of the transaction the group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
This process includes linking all derivatives designated as hedges to specific assets and liabilities or to specific firm commitments or forecast transactions.
The group also documents its assessment, both at the hedge inception and on a quarterly basis, as to whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions have been, and are likely to continue to be, highly effective.
The group designates derivatives that qualify as hedges for accounting purposes as either: a a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge, b a hedge of a forecast transaction or firm commitment cash flow hedge, or c a hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity.
The method of recognising the resulting gains or losses from movements in fair values is dependent on whether the derivative contract is designated to hedge a specific risk and qualifies for hedge accounting.
54 Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of an asset or liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from reserves and is included in the initial measurement of the non-financial asset or liability.
Otherwise the cumulative gain or loss is removed from reserves and is recognised in the income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction.
To the extent that any part of the hedge is ineffective, the gain or loss on that part is recognised in the income statement.
Net investment hedges take the form of either foreign currency borrowings or derivatives.
All foreign exchange gains or losses arising on translation of net investments are recorded in equity and included in the translation reserve.
Monetary liabilities used as a net investment hedge are revalued at closing exchange rates with resulting gains or losses taken to equity.
Foreign exchange contracts hedging net investments in overseas businesses are revalued at fair value.
Fair value movements on effective hedges are taken to equity with any ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other non-financial host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
In these circumstances the host contract is not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses on the derivative reported in the income statement for the period.
Non-derivative financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured initially at fair value, plus directly attributable transaction costs, and thereafter at amortised cost, except for other current investments.
The group has designated some current investments financial assets at fair value through profit and loss because these instruments are managed, and their performance is evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with the groups risk management and investment strategy.
Investments other than those designated as at fair value through profit and loss are classified as investments available for sale, where gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the period.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows expire or the contractual rights to receive the cash flows are transferred.
The contractual rights to receive cash flows are transferred when substantially all the risk and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Comparative accounting policy for 2005 The following accounting policy has been applied to the key financial instruments used by the group for the year ending 17 September 2005, in accordance with UK GAAP.
Forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options are used to hedge forecast transactional cash flows and accordingly, any gains or losses on these contracts are recognised in the profit and loss account when the underlying transaction is settled.
Derivative commodity contracts are used to hedge committed purchases or sales of commodities and accordingly, any gains or losses on these contracts are recognised in the profit and loss account in the same accounting period as the underlying purchase or sale.
Gains or losses on hedging instruments that are cancelled due to the termination of the underlying exposure are taken to the profit and loss account immediately.
Property, plant & equipment Items of property, plant & equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment charges.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant & equipment sufficient to reduce them to their estimated residual value.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Freehold buildings 66 years Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings sugar factories 20 years other operations 12 years Vehicles 8 years 55 Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Significant accounting policies continued for the year ended 16 September 2006 Biological assets Cane roots and growing cane are valued at fair value determined on the following bases: Cane roots the escalated average cost, using appropriate inflation related indices, of each year of planting adjusted for the remaining expected life.
Growing cane the estimated sucrose content valued at the estimated sucrose price for the following season, less the estimated costs for harvesting and transport.
Leases Where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset that is subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
Other leases are treated as operating leases.
Finance leases are stated at the lower of fair value and present value of minimum lease payments less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
The benefit of lease incentives received is recognised in the income statement over the life of the lease.
Intangible assets other than goodwill Intangible assets that are acquired by the group and have a finite life are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Customer relationships up to 5 years Grower contracts up to 10 years Technology and brands up to 15 years Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 3 September 2004, goodwill represents the excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired, including separately identified intangible assets.
In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, represented by the net book value recorded under previous GAAP.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 3 September 2004 has not been reconsidered in preparing the groups opening IFRS balance sheet at 18 September 2004.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the group has sufficient resources to complete development.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
Impairment The carrying amounts of the groups assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment charge is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment charges are recognised in the income statement within operating costs.
56 Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Impairment charges recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit or group of units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit or group of units on a pro rata basis.
Goodwill was tested for impairment at 18 September 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, even though no indication of impairment existed.
Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Reversals of impairment An impairment charge in respect of goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment charge is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine recoverable amount.
An impairment charge is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment charge had been recognised.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes raw materials, direct labour and expenses, an appropriate proportion of production and other overheads, but not borrowing costs.
Cost is calculated on a first-in first-out basis.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits and investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 16 September 2006 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures require extensive disclosures about the significance of financial instruments for an entitys financial position and performance, and qualitative and quantitative disclosures on the nature and extent of risks.
IFRS 7 and amended IAS 1, which will be adopted for the groups 2007 financial statements, will require additional disclosures with respect to the groups financial instruments and share capital.
IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies addresses the application of IAS 29 when an economy first becomes hyperinflationary and in particular the accounting for deferred tax.
IFRIC 7, which becomes mandatory for the groups 2008 financial statements, is not expected to have any significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions in which some or all of goods or services received cannot be specifically identified.
IFRIC 8 will become mandatory for the groups 2007 financial statements, with retrospective application required.
The group has not yet determined the potential effect of the interpretation.
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives requires that a reassessment of whether embedded derivatives should be separated from the underlying host contract should be made only when there are changes to the contract.
IFRIC 9, which becomes mandatory for the groups 2007 financial statements, is not expected to have any significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment prohibits the reversal of an impairment loss recognised in a previous interim period in respect of goodwill, an investment in an equity instrument or a financial asset carried at cost.
IFRIC 10 will become mandatory for the groups 2008 financial statements, and will apply to goodwill, investments in equity instruments, and financial assets carried at cost prospectively from the date that the group first applied the measurement criteria of IAS 36 and IAS 39 respectively i. e. 18 September 2005.
IFRIC 10 is not expected to have any significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The group does not consider that any other standards or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not yet applicable, will have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
57 Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2006
