Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company and of the profit or loss of the parent company for that period.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a directors report, directors' remuneration report and corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company's website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
46 Directors responsibilities Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Independent auditors report to the members of Associated British Foods plc We have audited the group and parent company financial statements We read the other information contained in the annual report and the financial statements of Associated British Foods plc for the year consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
ended 16 September 2006 which comprise the consolidated income We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any statement, the consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
recognised income and expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out Basis of audit opinion therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the members those matters we are required to state to them in an directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and Companys permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall by the EU, for preparing the parent company financial statements adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and for preparing the directors remuneration report are set out in the statement of Opinion directors responsibilities on page 46.
In our opinion: the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the of the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance group's affairs as at 16 September 2006 and of its profit for the year with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International then ended: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared whether the financial statements and the part of the directors in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in IAS Regulation: accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors the state of the parent company's affairs as at 16 September 2006: report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information the parent company financial statements and the part of the presented in the Operating review and Financial review that is cross directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly referred from the business review section of the Directors report.
In prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept the information given in the directors report is consistent with the proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information financial statements.
and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects Registered Auditor the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 8 Salisbury Square Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the London Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not EC4Y 8BB required to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the 7 November 2006 effectiveness of the group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
47 Independent auditors report Annual Report & Accounts 2006
