F. Cash and Borrowings continued currency swaps and there were no debit balances on currency swaps 2005 $29m as credit balances on currency swaps and $10m as debit balances on currency swaps the net of which is a credit balance of $19m.
Currency swaps comprise floating interest rate contracts and forward foreign exchange contracts and were used in 2006 to hedge intragroup loans.
In the prior year the Company additionally used currency swaps to hedge its net investments .
All of the Groups currencyswaps are held by the Companyand therefore the maturity of currencyswaps set out inNote 19 of the Notes to the Group Accountsis that of the Company.
G. Financial Instruments ForeignExchange Exposures The Companys policy is to protect equity by matching foreign currencyassets  wherever practicable.
The Company has foreign currency intragroup loans with several subsidiaries and hedges the foreignexchange exposure onthese by either .
Interest Rate Exposures The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on cash, borrowings and currency swaps which are all at floating rates.
TheCompanyhad not fixed future interest rates at 31 December 2006. Credit Risk Exposures The Company limits exposure to credit risk on counterparties used for financial instruments through a system of internal credit limits which, with certain minor exceptions due to local market conditions, require counterparties to have a minimum A rating from the major ratings agencies.
The financial exposure of a counterparty is determined as the total of cash and deposits, plus the risk on derivative instruments, assessed as the fair value of the instrument plus a risk element based on the nominal value and the historic volatility of the market value of the instrument.
The Company does not anticipate non-performance of counterparties and believes it is not subject to material concentrationof credit risk.
The maximum credit risk exposure on derivatives at 31 December 2006 was less than $1m being the gross debit fair value onforward foreignexchange contracts.
Currency and Interest Rate Profile of Interest Bearing Liabilitiesand Assets There were no market risk sensitive instruments at 31 December 2006 or 31 December 2005.
Floating rates on liabilities are typically based on the three-month LIBOR interest rate relevant to the currency concerned.
There were no fixed rate liabilities at 31 December 2006 or 31 December 2005.
