Contingent Liabilities The Group is party to legal proceedings in the normal course of business.
Other than as set out below the Group considers that these will not result in any material adverse effect on the Groups results of operations orfinancialposition.
In August 2003 the Group withdrew voluntarily from all markets the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components.
As at that date 2,971 components had been implanted of which approximately 2,471 were in the USA, 450 in Australia and 50 in Europe, the first component having been implanted in December 2001.
As at 31 December 2006 999 implants required revision surgery as a result of some patients not achieving adequate fixation and settlements had been agreed with patients in respect of 923 of these revisions.
A provision of $154m was established in 2004 for the estimated cost of settling patient claims.
The total amount paid out to date in settlements, legal costs and associated expenses has been $172m of which $60m was recovered from the insurer who provided the primary layer and 65% of the first excess layer in the Groups global product liability programme.
The balance of $112m is due from five other insurers whohave declined coverage.
A provision of $42m remains available to cover the estimated cost of settling pending and future claims by patients assuming that insurance cover continues to be declined.
The key variables in assessing the adequacy of the provision are the number of revisions likely to arise in the next three years and the average cost of settling patient claims for those revisions.
Whilst managements estimate of the most probable cost remains $154m, it is possible that the eventual outcome may be different.
Based on independent statistical projectionsof revisionsthroughto the end of 2009 the range of possible costs is $133m to $194m.
The Groups assessment of the impact of these revisions and related matters constitute forward looking statements that are subject to uncertainties,  to the outcomeof settlements as compared to the assumptions made in estimating claim amounts.
Smith & Nephew cannot provide assurance that these estimates will prove correct.
Depending on the number and average cost of future settlements, costs may be greater orless than the amountprovided.
