Acquisitions 2006 On 10 July 2006, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of OsteoBiologics Inc. OBI a company providing bioabsorbable implants for bone healing for a net cost of $73m in cash.
OBI has been integrated with the endoscopy business.
The fair value adjustments reflect the recognition of intangible assets, deferred tax thereon and the recognition of tax losses available to the Group.
This acquisition gives the Group access to intellectual property and technology for use in cartilage repair and management believes that goodwill represents the value of the synergies that are expected to arise for the Group.
Goodwillis not deductible for tax purposes.
In 2006, from the date of acquisition on 10 July 2006, OBI contributed $3m to revenue and a loss of $3m to attributable profit for the year.
Had the acquisition occurred at the beginning of the year the revenue of the combined Group would have been $2,782m and attributable profit for the year would have been $743m.
Had the acquisition occurred at the beginning of the previous year, the revenue of the combined Group in 2005 wouldhave been $2,555m and attributable profit for the year wouldhave been $329m.
In addition to the cash consideration of $73m, deferred consideration of $10m in respect of previous years acquisitionswas paid inthe year.
Acquisitions continued 2005 The business and assets of an orthopaedic distributor in Japan were acquired on 30 June 2005 and a milestone payment was accrued in respect of a previous acquisition.
There was no material difference between the fair value and bookvalue of net assets acquired.
2004 On 16 March 2004, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Midland Medical Technologies MMT for a net cost of $142m in cash and loan notes.
Consideration included a contingent sum dependent on the date on which certain regulatory approvals were received.
The value of goodwill was determined including contingent consideration, payment of whichwas consideredprobable.
Management believes that goodwill represents value to the Group for which recognition as a discrete intangible asset is not permitted.
The majority of the value was assessed to consist of synergy benefits expected to be achieved by bringing a leading technology to market through the Groups worldwide distributionnetwork.
