Accounting Policies  inthe preparation of the Groups accountsare set out below: Basis of preparation The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of Smith & Nephew plc the Company and all the subsidiaries and the joint venture for the periods duringwhichthey were members of the Group.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
Subsidiaries are included in the Group accounts from the date that the Group obtains control.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses ontransactions between groupcompaniesare eliminated onconsolidation.
BusinessCombinations On acquisition, identifiable assets and liabilities  of subsidiaries are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition with any excess of the cost of acquisition over this value being capitalised as goodwill.
The fair value of assets includes the taxation benefits resulting from amortisation for income taxation purposes from which a third party separately acquiring the assets would reasonably be expected to benefit.
The Group elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations retrospectively to transactions occurring prior to the date of transition to IFRS, as permitted by IFRS 1.
Goodwill and intangible assets would be different had this election not been made.
Had prior business combinations been restated, goodwill arising from transactions occurring prior to 31 December 1998 which was previously set-off against reserves would be reinstated.
Goodwill arising from transactions from 1 January 1999 to 31 December 2002 would be lower as significant amounts wouldbe reclassified as separately identified intangibleassets.
 be increased by the reversal of amortisation charged during that period.
In the Income Statement goodwill  been zerobut amortisationof intangibleassets wouldhave been higher.
Interest in Joint Venture A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
The Groups interest in the results and assets and liabilities of its joint venture BSN Medical, which was a jointly controlled entity prior to disposal, were included in the accounts usingthe equity method of accounting.
Non-Current Assets Held for sale Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale rather than from continued use.
Assets held for sale are valued at the lower of their carrying amountand fair value less costs to sell.
Thejointventure was classified as suchfrom 1 October 2005.
Revenue Revenue comprises sales of products and services to third parties at amounts invoiced net of trade discounts andrebates, .
 customer of the significant risks and rewards of ownership.
This is generally when goods are despatched to customers except that sales of inventory located at customer premises and available for customers immediate use are recognised when notification is received that the product has been implanted or used.
Appropriate provisions for returns, trade discounts and rebates are deducted from revenue.
Rebates comprise retrospective volume discounts granted to certain customers on attainment of certain levels of purchases from the Group.
These are accrued over the course of the arrangement based on estimates of the level of business .
Accounting Policies continued ForeignCurrencies Balance sheet items of foreign operations are translated into US Dollars at year end rates of exchange.
Income statement items and the cash flows of overseas subsidiary undertakings and associated undertakings are translated at average rates for the year.
For those items where the average rate is not a reasonable approximationto the exchange rate onthe date of the transactionthe actual rate is used.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreignentity and translated at the closingrate.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange rulingat the balance sheet date.
The following are recorded as movements in other reserves: exchange differences on the translation at closing rates of exchange of non-US Dollar opening net assets: the differences arising between the translation of profits into US Dollars at average and closing exchange rates: and, to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective, the difference on translation of foreign currency borrowings or swaps that are used to finance or hedge the Groups net investments in foreign operations.
All other exchange differences are dealt with in arriving at profit before taxation.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative translation amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation, net of related movements onhedginginstruments, wouldbe recycledfrom equity intoincome.
Under IFRS 1, the Group was not required to record cumulative translation differences arising prior to the transition date.
In utilising this exemption, all cumulative translation differences were deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2003 and subsequent foreign business disposals will exclude any translation differences arising prior to the date of transition.
Full retrospective presentation of cumulative translation differences would either increase or decrease Other reserves depending on historic exchange rate fluctuations with the corresponding movement taken to Accumulated profits.
Gains or losses on the disposals of foreign operations in the future would be different as a result of the different amount of recycled cumulative translation differences.
Taxation The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the accounts and the correspondingtax bases used incomputationof taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of investments in subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that this will not reverse in the foreseeable future: on the initial recognition of non-deductible goodwill: and on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combinationand that, at the time of the transaction, does not affect the accountingortaxable profit.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date onthe same basis.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis, and at the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date that are expected to apply in the periods in whichthe asset or liability is settled.
It is recognised in the income statement except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, inwhichcase the deferred tax is also dealt withinequity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authorityand whenthe Group intends to settle its currenttax assets and liabilities ona net basis.
Accounting Policies continued AdvertisingCosts Expenditure onadvertising costs is expensed as incurred.
Intangible Fixed Assets Goodwill recognised prior to the date of transition to IFRS is stated at net bookvalue as at that date.
Goodwill recognised subsequent to 1 January 2003, representing the excess of purchase consideration over fair value of net assets acquired, is capitalised.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually.
Purchased intangibles, including purchased patents, know-how, trademarks, licences and distribution rights are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The amortisation of intangibles acquired as part of a business combination is presented separately after trading profit but before operating profit.
The estimated useful life of an intangible asset ranges between 3 and 20 years depending onits nature.
Purchased computer software and the costs of information technology projects are capitalised as intangible fixed assets.
Software that is integral to computer hardware e. g. its operating system is capitalised as plant and equipment.
Research and Development The Group considers that the regulatory, technical and market uncertainties inherent in the development of new products means that development costs should not be capitalised as intangible fixed assets until products receive approval from the appropriate regulatory body.
Substantially all development expenditure is complete by the time the product is submitted for regulatory approval.
Consequently all expenditure on research and development is expensed as incurred.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and provision for impairment where appropriate.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis at between 2% and 5% per annum.
Leasehold land and buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their estimated useful lives and the terms of the leases.
Plant and equipment is depreciated over lives ranging between three and 20 years by equal annual instalments to write down the assets to their estimated disposal value at the end of their working lives.
Assets in course of construction are not depreciated untilthey are broughtintouse.
Financecosts relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are not capitalised.
Impairment of assets Goodwill is allocated to the reported business segments which are the same as the cash-generating units.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for  orchanges  it mightbe impaired.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amountof the  whichit belongs instead.
In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill and other intangible assets a number of significant assumptions have to be made when preparing cash flow projections.
These include annual sales growth, trading margins, capital utilisation and anticipated volume and value growth in the markets served by the Group.
If actual results should differ or changes in expectations arise impairment charges may be required which would adversely impact operating results.
The Group tested all goodwill for impairment at the date of transitionto IFRS and noimpairmentwas identified.
LeasingCommitments Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownershipto the Group.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Accounting Policies continued Assets held under finance leases are capitalised as property, plant or equipment and depreciated accordingly.
The capital element of future lease payments is included in borrowings and interest is charged to profit before taxation ona reducingbalance basis over the term of the lease.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Investments From 1 January 2005, after initial recognition at fair value plus transaction costs, investments are designated as available for sale financial assets.
Investments in unlisted equity instruments are measured at cost as management believe that their fair value cannot be reliably measured.
Losses relating to impairment are recognisedas an expense immediately.
Inventories Finished goods and work-in-progress are valued at factory cost, including appropriate overheads, on a first-in first-out basis.
Raw materials and bought in finished goods are valued at purchase price.
All inventoriesare reduced to net realisable value where lowerthan cost.
Reconstruction and trauma instruments are generally not sold but loaned to customers and distributors for use in orthopaedic surgery.
They are recorded as inventory until they are deployed at which point they are transferred to plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives.
A feature of the reconstruction and trauma businesses is the high level of product inventory required, some of which is located at customer premises and is available for customers immediate use.
Complete sets of product, including large and small sizes, have to be made available in this way.
These outer sizes are used less frequently than standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value are therefore required to be made to orthopaedic inventory to anticipate this situation.
These adjustments are calculated in accordance with a formula based on levels of inventory compared with historical or forecast usage.
This formula is applied on an individual product line basis and is first applied when a product group has been on the market for two years.
This method of calculation is considered appropriate based on experience but it involves management judgements on effectiveness of inventory deployment, length of product lives, phase-out of old products and efficiency of .
DerivativeFinancial Instruments Management has elected to use the exemption under IFRS 1 not to present comparative information prior to 1 January 2005 in compliance with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
UK GAAP continues to apply to financial instruments for comparative information purposes.
Had the Group reported the 2004 comparative information to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39, derivatives contracted to hedge purchases which remain forecast at the balance sheet date and derivatives contracted to fix future interest costs would be included as assets or liabilities at fair value with the valuation movements reflected in the income statement to the extent that hedge accounting criteria were not met.
Derivatives contracted to hedge transactions which have occurred, and for whicha financialasset orliabilityhas been recognised, wouldbe treated similarly.
From 1 January 2005, derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value and then for reportingpurposes remeasured to fair value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of forecast third party and intercompany transactions are recognised directly in equity until the associated asset or liability is recognised.
Amounts deferred in this way are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged firm commitments or forecasted transactions are recognisedinthe incomestatement.
Currency swaps to match foreign currency net assets with foreign currency liabilities are fair valued at year end.
Changes in the fair values of currency swaps that are designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched inequity against changes invalue of the related net assets.
Accounting Policies continued Any ineffectiveness on hedging instruments and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement in other finance income costs as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained there until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulativegainorloss recognisedinequity is transferred to the incomestatement for the period.
Recognitionof Financial Assets and Liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognisedona trade date basis.
TheGroup carries borrowingsinthe Balance Sheet at amortised cost.
Retirement Benefits The Groups major pension plans are of the defined benefit type.
For these plans, the employers portion of past and current service cost is charged to trading profit, with the interest cost net of expected return on assets in the plans reported within other finance costs.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised directly in equity such that the balance sheet reflects the plans surplus or deficit as at the balance sheet date.
Where defined contribution plans operate the contributions to these plans are charged to trading profit as they become payable.
A number of key judgements have to be made in calculating the fair value of the Groups defined benefit pension plans.
These assumptions impact the balance sheet liability, trading profit and finance costs.
The most critical assumptions are the discount rate and mortality assumptions to be applied to future pension plan liabilities.
In making these judgements management takes into account the advice of professional external actuaries and benchmarksits assumptions against external data.
Share based payments The Group operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
For all grants of share options and awards, the fair value as at the date of grant is calculated using option pricing models and the correspondingexpense is recognisedover the vesting period.
Under IFRS 1, the Group is required to restate its comparative years for all grants of equity instruments made on or after 7 November 2002.
A first time adopter is encouraged to apply IFRS to grants made before this date to the extent information on the fair value of these equity instruments has previously been publicly disclosed.
The Group disclosed share option valuations in its US GAAP reporting in prior years and these valuations were used to restate comparatives.
Contingenciesand Provisions In the normal course of business the Group is involved in numerous legal disputes.
Provision is made for loss contingencies when it is deemed probable that an adverse outcome will occur and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
Where the Group is the plaintiff in pursuing claims against third parties legal and associated expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Contingent assets are not recognisedinthe accounts.
The recognition of provisions for legal disputes is subject to a significant degree of estimation.
In making its estimates management takes into account the advice of internal and external legal counsel.
Provisions are reviewed regularlyand amounts updated where necessary to reflect developments inthe disputes.
The ultimate liability may differ from the amount provided depending on the outcome of court proceedings and settlement negotiationsorif investigations bringto light new facts.
The estimation of the liability for the costs of the macrotextured product withdrawal for which insurance coverage has been declined is dependent upon two main variables.
These are, the number of implant revisions that will ultimately be required and the average cost of settlements with patients.
