Post Balance Sheet Events On 12 March 2007 the Group announced that it had agreed the purchase of Plus Orthopedics Holding AG Plus, a private Swiss orthopaedic company, for a total of CHF 1,086m $889m in cash, including assumed debt.
Completion of the agreement is conditional on receipt of competition clearances which are expected to take two to three months.
Plus reported revenues of CHF367m $300m in 2006 and profit before interest and tax of CHF 44m $36m.
On 8 February 2007, the Group announced its intention to undertake a share buy back programme of up to $1.5 billion over the next two years.
This followed an assessment of the medium term capital needs of the Group both internally and for acquisitions in which management determined that shareholder value and balance sheet efficiencywouldbe enhancedby returningcapital to shareholders.
As at 20 March2007, 2,910,000 OrdinaryShares had been purchased at a cost of $35m.
New Accounting Standards New IFRS Accounting Standards The following IFRS and IFRIC interpretations, which are relevant to the Group, have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB but are not yet effective.
None is likely to have a material effect onthe Groups results of operations orfinancialposition.
In August 2005, the IASB issued IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures which the Group will adopt in the financial year commencing 1 January 2007.
The Group will have to disclose additional information about its financial instruments, their significance and the nature and extent of risks that they give rise to.
More specifically the Group will need to disclose the fair value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater detail.
In August 2005, the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements which the Group will adopt in the financial year commencing 1 January 2007.
The Group will disclose additional informationabout its objectives, policiesand process for managingcapital.
In November 2006, the IASB issued IFRS 8 Operating Segments which is required to be implemented in the financial year commencing 1 January 2009.
This aligns the IFRS reporting of segmental analysis with that provided inaccordancewithUS GAAP.
New Accounting Standards continued In July 2006, the IASB issued IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment which is required to be implemented in the Groups financial year commencing 1 January 2007.
This interpretation requires that any impairment loss recognised in respect of goodwill or an equity investment in a quarterly interim statement shall not subsequently be reversed insubsequent quarterly orannualstatements.
In November 2006, the IASB issued IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions which is required to be implemented in the Groups financial year commencing 1 January 2008.
This interpretation provides guidance on whether share-based transactions involvinggroup entities should be accounted for as equity settled orcash settled transactions.
New Accounting Standardsinthe US New accounting policiesadopted during the year  been adopted by the Group inthe currentyear.
In May 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB issued SFAS 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, which replaces APB Opinion No.
The Statement established retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit  for new .
In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements, regarding the process of quantifying financialstatement misstatements.
The Group has adopted SFAS 123 revised 2004 Share-Based Payment and SFAS 158 Employers Accountingfor   an amendmentof FASB Statements No.
87, 88, 106, and 132 R in the current financial year: the impact of adopting these Statements is described inNote 40 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
In June 2006, the EITF issued EITF 06-03 How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Government Authorities should be presented in the Income Statement That is, Gross versus Net Presentation.
This interpretation requires disclosure of the accounting policy adopted for presentation of taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities and the disclosure of the amount included where a gross presentation is adopted.
As disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Group Accounts, the Group presents Revenue excluding such taxes i. e. a net presentation and there is, therefore, no material impact onthe financialstatements.
New accounting policiesnot yet adopted  been issued by the FASB but are not yet effective.
In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No.
48, Accounting for uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No.
109, FIN 48, to create a single model to address accounting for uncertainty in tax positions.
FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for income taxes, by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognised in the accounts.
FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition.
FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after 15 December 2006.
The Group will adopt FIN 48 for its year commencing 1 January 2007, as required.
The cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 will be recorded in retained earnings.
The Group, has not determined the effect, if any, the adoptionof FIN 48 willhave onthe Groups financialpositionand results of operations.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157, Fair Value Measurements, which sets out a framework for measuring fair value where such is required elsewhere within generally accepted accounting principles.
The Group will adopt this Statement in the financial year commencing 1 January 2008 at latest.
The adoption of SFAS 157 is not expected to have a material effect onthe Groups results of operations orfinancialposition.
