NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS 1.
General Information Smith & Nephew plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Acts.
In these accounts, Group means the Company and all its subsidiaries.
The principal activities of the Group are described inDescriptionof the Group Business Description.
Presentation of financial information As the Groups principal assets and operations are in the US and the majority of its operations are conducted in US Dollars, the Group changed its presentational currency from Pounds Sterling to US Dollars with effect from 1 January 2006.
The Company redenominated its share capital into US Dollars on 23 January 2006 and will retain distributable reserves and declare dividends in US Dollars.
Consequently its functional currency became the US Dollar.
This lowers the Groups exposure to currency translation risk on its revenue, profits and equity.
Financial informationfor prior periods has been restated from Pounds Sterling intoUS Dollars inaccordancewithIAS 21.
The cumulative translation reserve was set to nil at 1 January 2003 i. e. the transition date to IFRS.
All subsequent movements comprising differences on the retranslation of the opening net assets of non US Dollar subsidiaries and hedging instruments have been charged to the cumulative translation reserve included in Other Reserves.
Share capital and share premium was translated at the rate of exchange on the date of redenomination.
As a result of the above the presentational currency of the Group i. e. US Dollars in the restated years of 2005 and 2004 is different from the functionalcurrencyof the Company i. e. Pounds sterling.
In previous years the Group protected its equity, as measured in Sterling, by matching non-Sterling assets with non-Sterling liabilities principally by the use of currency swaps.
Exchange movements on both the non-Sterling net assets and the hedging instruments were recorded as movements in Other Reserves.
As hedging was effective up to the date of the change in functional currency, the Group has continued to present these as movements in Other Reserves as this hedging is regarded as valid in the comparator years.
When presenting comparative periods in US Dollars the retranslation of the net Sterling assets results inthe large exchange differences showninthe Statement of Recognised Incomeand Expense.
As detailed in Note 25 the Group has made certain restatements to the comparative years balances.
All prior year comparatives in affected Notes to the Group accounts have been restated to reflect these restatements.
As required by the European Unions IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 1985, the Group has prepared its accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU effective as at 31 December 2006.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU differ in certain respects from IFRSs as issued by the  Board IASB.
However, the Group accounts for the years presented would be no different had the Group applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
References to IFRS hereafter shouldbe construedas reference to IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The Group applied IFRS 1 First Time Adoption for International Financial Reporting Standards in 2005 to provide a starting point for reporting under IFRS.
The Groups date of transition to IFRS was 1 January 2003 and all comparative information in the financial statements was restated to reflect the Groups adoption of IFRS, except where otherwise required orpermitted underIFRS 1.
IFRS 1 required an entity to comply with each IFRS effective at the reporting date for its first IFRS financial statements.
As a general principle, IFRS 1 required the standards effective at the reporting date to be applied retrospectively.
However, retrospective application was prohibited in some areas, particularly where retrospective application would require judgements by management about past conditions after the outcome of the particular transaction is already known.
A number of optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRSs were granted where the cost of compliance was deemed to exceed the benefits to users of the financial statements.
Where applicable, the options selected by management are set out inNote 2.
