GLOSSARY OF TERMS Unless the context indicates otherwise, the followingterms have the meaningsshownbelow: Term Meaning ACL reconstruction Tissue reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament ACL in the knee.
The most common procedures for ACL reconstruction involve harvesting ligament or tendon tissue from the patients own body to replace the torn ligament.
ADR In the US, The Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the term of ADSs evidenced by  ADRs.
ADS In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the term of AmericanDepositary Shares ADSs.
Access A product group within endoscopy comprising fluid management and insufflationdevices for surgicalaccess.
Advanced WoundManagement products A product group comprising products associated with the treatment of skin wounds, ranging from products that provide moist wound healing using breathable films and polymers to products providing active wound healing by .
AGM AnnualGeneral Meeting of the Company.
Arthroscopy Endoscopy of the joints is termed arthroscopy, with the principal applications being the knee and shoulder.
Bandaging A  adhesive and support bandaging.
Basis Point One hundredthof onepercentage point.
CADEX Starch likepolymerfor cleaningand absorbing fluid inwounds.
Chronicand acute wounds Chronic wounds are those with long or unknown healing times including leg ulcers, pressure sores and diabetic foot ulcers.
Acute wounds are those for which healing times can be reasonably predicted such as surgicaland post-operative wounds.
Company Smith & Nephew plc or, where appropriate, the Companys Board of Directors, unless the context otherwise requires.
Class III medical device A medical device that requires pre-market approval by the relevant regulatorybody inthe US orEurope.
Companies Act Companies Act 1985, as amended, of England and Wales.
Debridement A medical treatment or surgical procedure to remove dead tissue and other unwanted material from a woundto aid healing.
Demineralisedbone matrix Corticalbone processed from donors:primarilyused as a bone void filler.
Digitaloperating room The digital operating room is a custom-designed operating room solution providing auto-video connectivity, medical device control, integration with hospital information systems and surgical documentation devices for medical facilities to help improve efficiency, cost effectiveness and, by extension, patient care.
EBITA Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciationand amortisation.
Endoscopy Endoscopy allows surgeons to operate through coin-sized openings in the body, rather than large incisions.
176 Term Meaning Endoscopyproducts A product group comprising specialised viewing and access devices surgical instruments and powered equipment used in minimally invasive surgical procedures Through a small incision surgeons are able to see inside the body usinga monitorand identify and repair defects.
Euroor References to the commoncurrencyused in the majority of the countries of the European Union.
External fixation The use of wires or pins transfixed through bone to hold a frame to the positionof a fracture.
FDA US Food and DrugAdministration.
FAS A  whichis part of US GAAP.
Financialstatements Refers to the consolidated Group Accountsof Smith & Nephew plc.
Fracture casting A product group comprising products that are used externally to immobilize a bone fracture or damaged joint, usually made of plaster of paris orsynthetic materials.
Group orSmith & Nephew Used for convenience to refer to the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires.
IDET procedure Intradiscal Electrothermal Therapy IDET is a thermal procedure intended for the shrinkage and decompression of the spinal disc to treat patients  containedherniations.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International AccountingStandards Board as adopted by the EU.
Insufflation The use of carbon dioxide to inflate body cavities during endoscopic surgery to enable surgeons to view internalorgans.
Intramedullary nailsystem Stainless or titanium implants shaped like a nail implanted in the intramedullarycanal indiaphyseal fractures.
Metal-on-metal hipresurfacing A less invasive surgical approach to treating arthritis in younger patients whereby only the surfaces of the hip joint are replaced leaving the hip head substantially preserved.
 Any product that is primarily intended to act as a scaffold and or actively stimulates bone growth.
Orthopaedic products Products that comprise implants, devices and systems to replace diseased or injured hip, knee and shoulder joints, and trauma devices such as rods, pins, screws, plates and external fixation used to treat bone fractures.
OXINIUM OXINIUM material is an advanced load bearing technology.
It is created through a proprietary manufacturing process that enables zirconium to absorb oxygen and transform to a ceramic on the surface, resulting in a material that incorporates the features of ceramic and metal.
Management believes that OXINIUM material used in the production of components of knee and hip implants exhibits unique performance characteristics due to its hardness, low-frictionand resistance to rougheningand abrasion.
Papain urea Papain urea is a compound of an enzyme extracted from papaya and an  agent.
PoundSterling, Sterling, pence References to UK currency.
1p is equivalent to onehundredthof 1. orp Reconstruction Joint replacement systems for knees, hips and shoulders and support products such as computer assisted surgery and minimally invasive surgery techniques.
177 Investor Information Term Meaning Repair A product group within endoscopy comprising specialised devices, fixation systems and bioabsorbable materials to repair joints and associated tissue.
Resection Products that cut or ablate tissue within endoscopy comprising mechanical blades, radio frequency wands, electromechanical and hand instruments for resecting tissue.
Traditionalwoundcare Product group comprising medical textile products, adhesive tapes and fixative sheets to secure woundmanagement products to the body.
Traumaand clinicaltherapies Trauma devices are used in the treatment of bone fractures including rods, pins, screws, plates and external frames.
Clinical therapies products comprise a joint fluid therapy for pain reduction of the knee and an ultrasoundtreatment to accelerate the healingof bone fractures.
UK United Kingdomof Great Britainand NorthernIreland.
UK GAAP  accepted inthe United Kingdom.
US United States of America.
US Dollars, US $ orcents References to US currency.
1 cent is equivalent to onehundredthof US$1.
US GAAP  accepted inthe United States of America.
Visualisation Products within endoscopy comprising digital cameras, light sources, monitors, scopes, image capture, central control and multimedia broadcasting systems for use inendoscopicsurgery withvisualisation.
Woundbed An area of healthy dermal and epidermal tissue of a wound.
