Our Board 1 John Buchanan Independent non-executive Chairman 63 was appointed independent non-executive Deputy Chairman in 2005 and became Chairman in April 2006.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He is Deputy Chairman of Vodafone Group Plc and a nonexecutive director of AstraZeneca PLC and BHP Billiton.
He was formerly Group Chief Financial Of cer of BP p. l. c. 2 Sir Christopher ODonnell Chief Executive 60 joined the Group in 1988 as managing director of the Groups medical division, was appointed a director in 1992 and was appointed Chief Executive in 1997.
He is a member of the Nominations Committee.
Previously he held senior positions with UK and US companies in the medical engineering and devices industry.
3 Adrian Hennah Chief Financial Of cer 49 joined the Group and was appointed a director in June 2006.
He was previously Chief Financial Of cer of Invensys plc and held various senior positions within GlaxoSmithKline.
2 4 1 4 David Illingworth Chief Operating Of cer 53 joined the Group in May 2002 as President Orthopaedics and was appointed a director and Chief Operating Of cer in February 2006.
Prior to joining the Group he held posts within GE Medical, as Chief Executive Of cer of a publicly traded medical devices company, President of a respiratory critical care company and President of a technology incubator company.
5 Dr Pamela Kirby Independent non-executive director 53 was appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
She is non-executive Chairman of Scynexis Inc and a non-executive director of Informa plc and Curalogic A S. 6 Warren Knowlton Independent non-executive director 60 was appointed a director in November 2000 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is Chief Executive Of cer of Graham Packaging Inc. and a non-executive director of Filtrona plc and Ameriprise Financial Inc.
Previously he was Group Chief Executive of Morgan Crucible plc.
7 Brian Larcombe Independent non-executive director 53 was appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Audit Committee.
He is a non-executive director of F&C Asset Management plc and Gallaher Group plc.
Previously he was Chief Executive Of cer of 3i 5 8 6 Group plc.
8 Richard fide Schutter Independent non-executive director 66 was appointed a director in January 2001 and is a member of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
He is nonexecutive Chairman of Incyte Corporation and a non-executive director of Varian Inc. MedPointe Pharmaceuticals, Ecolab Inc and Navicure Inc. 9 Dr Rolf Stomberg Independent non-executive director and Senior Independent Director 66 was appointed a director in 1998 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and Nominations Committee.
He is Chairman of Management Consulting Group plc, Francotyp-Postalia Holding AG and Lanxess AG and a non-executive director of Reed Elsevier plc, Hoyer GmbH, TNT N. V. Deutsche BP AG, Biesterfeld AG and Severstal.
9 7 3 In April 2006, Dudley Eustace retired as Chairman and in June 2006, Peter Hooley retired as Finance Director.
Non-executive director Kenneth Kemp is Member of the Nominations Committee Honorary Life President.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee 14 2006 Summary Financial Statement
