The provision for bad and doubtful debts is based on specific assessments of risk and reference to past default experience.
The bad debt expense excluding the macrotextured claim for the year was $15m 2005 $18m.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of customers.
Management considers that the carryingamountof trade and other receivables approximates the fair value.
Cash and Borrowings Net cash net debt comprises borrowings and credit balances on currency swaps less cash and bank and debit balances oncurrencyswaps.
Cash and Borrowings continued The Loan Notes are denominated in Sterling, pay interest quarterly at floating rates and are repayable in full in2007.
The Board has established a set of policies to manage funding and currency risks.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments only to manage the financial risks associated with underlying business activities and their financing.
The Groups policy is to ensure that there is sufficient funding and facilities in place to meet foreseeable .
Bank loans and overdrafts are drawings under uncommitted facilities of $446m.
The Group has undrawn committed facilities of $610m.
In 2005 the Group had uncommitted and committed facilities of $441m and $610m respectively.
Of the committed facilities, $10m expires within one year and $600m after two but within five years 2005 undrawn committed facilities: $412m of which $7m expired within one year and $405m after two but within five years.
Borrowings secured on property, plant and equipment and current assets were $16m 2005 $17m.
The interest payable on borrowings under committed facilities is at floating rate and is typically based on the LIBOR interest rate relevant to the term and currency concerned.
Borrowingsare shownat bookvalue whichis the same as fair value.
In September 2004 the Group entered into a committed $600m five-year revolving multicurrency loan facility.
The margin payable on drawings under this facility is 25 basis points per annum, with a further 5 basis points per annum utilisation fee payable on drawings over $400m.
The commitment fee on the undrawn amount is 8.75 basis points per annum.
The Group is subject to restrictive covenants under the facility agreement requiring the Groups ratio of net debt to EBITDA to not exceed 3.0 to 1 and the ratio of EBITA to net interest to not be less than 3.0 to 1, net debt, EBITDA, EBITA and net interest all being calculated as defined in the agreement.
These financial covenants are tested at the end of each half year for the 12 months ending on the last day of the testing period.
The Group is currently in compliance with these covenants.
The facility is also subject to customary events of default, none of which are currently anticipated to occur.
All currency swaps are stated at fair value.
Gross US Dollar equivalents of $249m 2005 $910m receivable and $251m 2005 $929m payable have been netted.
$2m is reported as credit balances on currency swaps and there were no debit balances on currency swaps 2005 $29m as credit balances on currency swaps and $10m as debit balances on currency swaps the net of which is a credit balance of $19m.
Currency swaps comprise floating interest rate contracts and forward foreign exchange contracts and were used in 2006 to hedge intragroup loans.
In the prior year the Group additionally used currency swaps to hedge its net investments .
