Accounting Policies continued the remaining number of implant revisions is based on trends to date and the advice of external statistical and other advisors.
The estimate of average settlement costs is based on the most recent six months experience updated where necessary for other knownfactors.
The Group operates in multiple tax jurisdictions around the world and records provisions for taxation liabilities and tax audits when it is considered probable that a tax charge will arise and the amount can be reasonably estimated.
Although Group policy is to submit its tax returns to the relevant tax authorities as promptly as possible, at any time the Group has unagreed years outstanding and is involved indisputes and tax audits.
Significant issues may take many years to resolve.
In estimating the probability and amount of any tax charge management takes into account the views of internal and external advisors and updates the amount of the provision whenever necessary.
The ultimate tax liability may differ from the amount provided depending oninterpretations of tax law, settlement  inlegislation.
Adjustedearnings per share The Group includes separate line items and headings in its income statement in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements in order to better enable an understanding of the Groups financial performance.
The Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be presented separately: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets: significant restructuring events: and gains and losses arising from legal disputes and uninsured losses.
The Group further presents an alternative measure of earnings per share adjusted earnings per share that .
3 a. BusinessSegmental Analysis Information required under IFRS For management purposes, the Group is organised into four business segments Reconstruction, Trauma and Clinical Therapies, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management.
These business segments are the basis onwhichthe Group reports its primarysegment information.
At the beginning of 2006 the Orthopaedics business, previously reported in the full accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2005, was restructured into two separate businesses with separate management in order to improve focus on the distinct market segments of Reconstruction and Trauma and ClinicalTherapies.
Comparative periods have been restated.
No impairment losses were recognised within operating profit in 2006 2005 $32m, 2004 nil.
The impairment losses of $32m in 2005 were recognised in restructuring and rationalisation expenses and can segmentally be allocated as follows: Endoscopy$5m and Advanced WoundManagement $27m.
BusinessSegment information Group management reviews and monitors Group and business segment performance by use of key performance indicators that are not measured on the same basis as the measures presented in accordance withIFRS and US GAAP.
The measures of revenue and trading profit by business segment that are reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM use the prior years closing exchange rate to translate non-Dollaramounts instead of the average rate for the year as required for the measures presented in accordance with IFRS and US GAAP.
Furthermore, the measure of revenue by business segment that is reviewed by the CODM is adjusted for revenue from sales of products acquiredinbusiness combinationsinthe currentyear.
In its internal reporting the Group also adjusts the prior year revenue and trading profit measures reviewed by the CODM, in a similar manner to that described above, to enable a comparison of the current and prior years.
Thepresentation of this adjusted comparative informationis not required by SFAS 131.
