PARENT COMPANY AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholdersof Smith & Nephewplc We have audited the Parent company accounts of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the balance sheet and the related Notes A to M. These Parent company accounts have been prepared underthe  out therein.
We have also audited the informationinthe Remuneration Report that is described as havingbeen audited.
We have reported separately on the Group accounts of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2006.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companysmembers as a body, for ouraudit work, for this report, orfor the opinionswe have formed.
 directorsand auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the Parent company accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted AccountingPractice are set out inthe  for the Accounts.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent company accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent company accounts give a true and fair view, the Parent company accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and whether the informationgiven in the Directors Report is consistent withthe accounts.
We also report to you if, in our opinion the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remunerationand other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent company accounts.
The other information comprises only the Financial Summary, the Description of the Group, the Operating and Financial Review, Liquidity and Prospects, the Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent company accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Parent company accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Parent company accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Parent company accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinionwe also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Parent company accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
147 Parent Company Accounts Opinion In ouropinion: the Parent company accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted AccountingPractice, of the state of the companysaffairs as at 31 December 2006: the Parent company accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared inaccordancewiththe Companies Act 1985: and the informationgiven inthe report of the directors is consistent withthe Parent companyaccounts.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London, England 20 March2007 148
