INTRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL SUMMARY The Smith & Nephew Group is a global medical devices business engaged in orthopaedic reconstruction, orthopaedic trauma and clinical therapies, endoscopy and advanced wound management having revenue of over $2.7 billion in 2006.
Smith & Nephew plc is the parent company of the Smith & Nephew Group.
It is an English public limited company with its shares listed on the official list of the UK Listing Authority and it is traded on the LondonStock Exchange and onthe New YorkStock Exchange inthe form of ADSs.
This report is the Annual Report of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2006.
It comprises in a single document the Annual Report and Accounts of the company in accordance with UK requirements and the Annual Report on Form 20-F in accordance with the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US.
A summary report on the year, the Summary Financial Statement 2006, intended for the investor not requiringthe full detail of the Annual Report, is produced as a separate document.
The Summary Financial Statement includes a summaryreview of operations, a  and .
Both the Annual Report and Summary Financial Statement are available on Smith & Nephews corporate website at www.
The Groups fiscal year ends on 31 December of each year.
References in this Annual Report to a particular year are to the fiscal year unless otherwise indicated.
Except as the context otherwise requires, Ordinary Share or share refer to the OrdinaryShares of Smith & Nephew plc of US 20 each.
For the convenience of the reader, a Glossary of technical and financial terms used in this document is included on page 176.
The product names referred to in this document are identified by the use of capital letters and are trademarks ownedby orlicensed to members of the Smith & Nephew Group.
Key Performance Indicators The Report of the Directors includes a number of measures that management uses as key performance indicators.
Underlying growth in revenue is not presented in the accounts prepared in accordance with IFRS and is therefore a non Generally Accepted Accounting Principles non-GAAP measure.
The principal key  inthe AnnualReport are: Underlying growth in revenue Underlying growth in revenue is a non-GAAP financial measure which is a key performance indicator used by the Groups management in order to compare the revenue in a given year to that of the previous year on a like-bylike basis.
This is done by adjusting for the impact both of sales of products acquired in business combinationsin the current year and the prior year, and of movements in exchange rates.
An explanation of how this non-GAAP measure is calculated is presented inthe Business Overview onpage 28.
The Group believes that the tabular presentation and reconciliationof revenue growthfrom reported to underlying assists investors in their assessment of the Groups performance in each business segment and for the Group as a whole.
Underlying growth in revenue is considered by the Group to be an important measure of performance in terms of local functional currency since it excludes those items considered to be outside the influence of local management.
The Groups management uses this non-GAAP measure in its internal financial reporting, budgeting and planning to assess performance on both a business segment and a consolidated Group basis.
Revenue growth at constant currency is important in measuring business performance compared to competitors and compared to the growth of the market itself.
The Groups annual bonus incentive plans include an element which relates to revenue growth performance in which targets are set and performance measured in constant currencyexcludingthe step-change impact of acquisitions.
The Group considers that the revenue from sales of products acquired in business combinations results in a step-up in growth in revenue in the year of acquisition that cannot be wholly attributed to local managements efforts with respect to the business in the year of acquisition.
Depending onthe timingof the acquisitionthere will usually be a further step change in the following year.
A measure of growth excluding the effects of business i combinations also allows senior management to evaluate the performance and relative impact of growth from the existing business and growth from acquisitions.
The process of making business acquisitions is directed and approved from the Group Corporate centre inlinewithstrategic objectives and also funded centrally.
The material limitation of the underlying growth in revenue measure is that it excludes certain factors, described above, which ultimately have a significant impact on total revenues.
The Group compensates for this limitation by taking into account relative movements in exchange rates in its investment, strategic planning and resource allocation.
In addition, as the evaluation and assessment of business acquisitions is not within the control of local management, performance of acquisitions is monitored centrally for the first two years.
The Groups management considers that both the non-GAAP measure of underlying growth in revenue and the GAAP measure of growth in revenue are complementary measures neitherof whichmanagement use exclusively.
Basic adjusted earnings per ordinary share EPSA and adjusted attributable profit Growth in EPSA is a measure which presents the trend growth in the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions that management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group presents this measure to assist investors in their understanding of trends.
EPSA growth is also the key measure used for remunerating senior management in order to align the interests of senior management with those of investors.
The Groups internal financial reporting budgets, monthly reporting, forecasts, long-term planning and incentive plans, therefore, focuses primarily on profit and earnings before these items.
The items to be adjusted are identified in principle as those for which the Group presents separate lines and headings in its incomestatement in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, in order to better enable an understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Specifically, the Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be identified separately: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets: significant restructuring events: and gains and losses arising from legal disputes and uninsured losses.
A reconciliation of attributable profit to adjusted attributable profit, which represents the numeratorused inthe EPSA calculation, is presented inSelected FinancialData onpage 165.
EPSA is a permitted measure under IFRS but not under US GAAP.
The material limitation of EPSA is that it excludes significant income and costs that have a direct impact on current and prior years profit attributable to shareholders.
It does not, therefore, measure the overall performance of the Group presented by the GAAP measure of earnings per share.
The Group considers that no single measure enables it to assess overall performance and therefore it compensates for the limitation of the adjusted earnings per share measure by considering it in conjunction with the GAAP measure of earnings per share.
Gains or losses which are identified separately arise from irregular events or transactions.
Such events or transactions are authorised centrally and require a strategic assessment to be made which includes consideration of financial returns, generation of shareholder value and the impact on the Groups accounts.
Amortisation of  will occureach year, whilst other excluded items will disappear over time: some items may appear irregularly depending on the events that give rise to suchitems.
Presentation The results of the Group, as reported in US Dollars, are affected by movements in exchange rates between US Dollars and overseas currencies.
The Group used the average exchange rates prevailing during the year to translate the results of overseas companies into US Dollars.
The currencies which most influenced these translations inthe years covered by this report were Sterling and the Euro.
The Group Accounts of Smith & Nephew in this Annual Report are presented in US Dollars.
Solely for the convenience of the reader, certain parts of this Annual Report contain translations of amounts in US Dollars into Sterling at specified rates.
These translations should not be construed as representations that the US Dollar amounts actually represent such Sterling amounts or could be converted intoSterling at the rate indicated.
Except as where stated otherwise, the translation of US Dollars and cents to pounds Sterling and pence appearing inthis Annual Report has been made at the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers in Sterling as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Noon Buying Rate on the date indicated.
On 15 March2007, the NoonBuyingRate was US$1.94 per 1.
TheAccountsof the Group inthis AnnualReport are presented inmillions m unless otherwise indicated.
Smith & Nephews corporate website, www.
com, gives additional information on the Group.
Information made available on the website is not intended to be, and should not be regarded as being, part of this AnnualReport.
