Auditors statement Independent auditors statement to the members of This Summary Financial Statement is a summary of Smith & Nephew plc We have examined the Groups information in the Groups full annual accounts and was Summary Financial Statement for the year ended 31 approved by the Board on 20 March 2007 and signed on December 2006 which comprises the Group income its behalf by John Buchanan, Sir Christopher ODonnell and statement, Group statement of recognised income and Adrian Hennah.
It does not contain suf cient information expense, Group balance sheet, abridged Group cash to allow a full understanding of the results of the Group ow and the related notes 1 to 7. and state of affairs of the Company or of the Group.
A review of the business is included in the directors report.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a The report of the auditors on the full accounts for the year body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act ended 31 December 2006 was unquali ed and did not 1985.
To the fullest extent required by law, we do not accept contain a statement made under either Section 237 2 of or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company the Companies Act 1985 accounting records or returns and the Companys members as a body for our audit work, inadequate or accounts not agreeing with records or returns for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
or Section 237 3 failure to obtain necessary information and explanations.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Summary For further information the full accounts and the auditors Financial Statement in accordance with applicable law.
report on those accounts should be consulted.
Shareholders have the right to demand, free of charge, a copy of the Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the Groups full Annual Report, which may be obtained from consistency of the Summary Financial Statement with the Companys registrars.
the full annual accounts, directors report and directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the Companys full annual accounts describes the basis of our audit opinions on those accounts and the directors remuneration report.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the full annual accounts, directors report and directors remuneration report of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and regulations made thereunder.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London, 20 March 2007 16 2006 Summary Financial Statement
