Market value xation $3 billion Market growth 11% Our company: 14% 11% 6% Orthopaedic Global market overview 2006 8% Smith & Nephew Synthes Trauma and Stryker DePuy 45% 16% Zimmer Clinical Therapies Others What we do Our products help repair and accelerate We also received approval for a exible three, four or five the healing of bone fractures, relieve joint pain and correct weekly injection regimen for SUPARTZ Joint Fluid Therapy, bone deformities.
Our products cover the areas of internal which signi cantly increases the number of potential and external bone xation, orthobiologics, long bone repair customers for this product.
stimulation and joint uid therapy.
We are No3 in the global xation market, No2 in the US long bone repair stimulation At the beginning of the year we created a separate division market and No3 in the US joint uid therapy market.
Our key for Orthopaedic Trauma and Clinical Therapies, and objectives are to improve the quality of life for more patients, established a dedicated headquarters.
This organisational provide innovative treatment options for surgeons and deliver change caused some disturbance to operations, but in the health economic bene ts to healthcare systems.
second half of the year the first bene ts in ef ciency and effectiveness appeared.
We believe our sales coverage across all points of care hospitals, surgical centres, orthopaedic clinics and doctors Where were going Around the world healthcare systems of ces enables us to respond rapidly to surgical trends and need products and services able to generate economic and the changing needs of customers.
This breadth of coverage clinical bene ts.
At the same time, an ageing population, is rare in our market.
active lifestyles and increasing rates of osteoporosis and OA mean more people require treatment each year.
This How we performed In 2006, led by our president Mark combination of patient demand and economic need is Augusti, we increased revenues by 13% overall.
In Fixation creating a strong market for our products.
revenues grew by 9% and in Clinical Therapies by 23%.
New products were again a major feature of the year with the main The market also bene ts from stability in pricing and launches being: Medicare reimbursement increases.
In addition, TRIGEN INTERT AN intramedullary inside the bone hip specialisation among surgeons and the growing trend for fracture device, which uses an innovative two-screw more operations to take place outside traditional inpatient con guration to secure the nail in place after surgery.
hospital settings are also increasing demand for TRIGEN MET A intramedullary nail for femur and tibia fractures, innovative products.
which provides innovative locking options and screw holes.
PERI-L OC plates for the wrist, elbow, shoulder and clavicle, In such dynamic market conditions we strive to ll the unmet adding to our plates for fractures around the ankle and knee.
needs of patients, providers and payors.
We continue to The ea sier-to-use EXOGEN 4000 Bone Healing System.
develop and commercialise new products for established Applied externally to the site of a broken bone, EXOGEN markets, leverage our unique coverage of points of care ultrasound devices are clinically proven to speed up the and explore opportunities in new and emerging areas.
healing of certain new fractures by 38% and heal 86% of We believe our new TRIGEN products and PERI-LOC hard-to-heal bone fractures.
systems will be particularly important generators of growth in 2007.
We are also addressing new high-growth market Overall 26% of our revenues in 2006 were from new opportunities in outpatient treatment for spine injuries products, and our teams trained more than 3,400 surgeons following the move of this area from Endoscopy to Clinical worldwide at various locations including more than 50 Therapies at the beginning of 2007 and in orthobiologics.
medical education meetings and events.
We expanded our sales force and made good progress in developing Long bones include t he femur, tibia and bula leg : the humerus, partnerships and securing market approvals.
For example, radius and ulna arm : and the phalanges of the toes and ngers.
we formed a joint product development agreement with Q-MED AB to address osteoarthritis OA and other diseases.
DUROLANE is a trademark of Q-Med AB.
This includes global distribution rights for DUROLANE joint SUPARTZ is a trademark of the Seikagaku Corporation.
uid therapy, a single injection treatment for OA.
9 2006 Summary For more information visit Financial Statement www.
US When high school softball star Meghan Borst injured her knee, she and her parents were concerned about her college sports scholarship.
But just a few months after Dr Craig Levitz in foreground of South Nassau Communities Hospital successfully treated her injury using the CALAXO Osteoconductive Interference Screw, Meghan was back on her feet Changing peoples lives and is now playing softball for her Our new CALAXO college team.
Osteoconductive Interference Screw doesnt look particularly remarkable but it does something extraordinary.
Used to secure a graft after anterior cruciate ligament surgery in the knee joint, the screw stimulates the natural process of bone formation while it is being resorbed into the body.
