TAXATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS The comments below are of a general and summary nature and are based on the Groups understanding of certain aspects of current UK and US federal income tax law and practice relevant to the ADSs and Ordinary Shares not in ADS form.
The comments address the material US and UK tax consequences generally applicable to a person who is the beneficial owner of ADSs or Ordinary Shares and who, for US federal income tax purposes, is a US citizen or resident of the United States, a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation created or organised in or under the laws of the United States, or an estate or trust the income of which is included in gross income for US federal income tax purposes regardless of its source each a US Holder.
The comments set out below do not purport to address all tax consequences of the ownership of ADSs or Ordinary Shares whichmay be material to a particular holder and in particular do not deal with the position of shareholders who directly or indirectly own 10% or more of the Companys issued Ordinary Shares.
This discussion does not apply to persons whose holding of ADSs or Ordinary Shares is effectively connected with or pertains to either i a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom through which a US Holder carries on a business in the United Kingdom, ii a fixed base from which a US Holder performs independent personal services in the United Kingdom, or iii whose registered address is inside the UK.
This discussion does not apply to certain investors such as certain financial institutions, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, broker-dealers, traders in securities that elect to mark to market, partnerships or other entities treated as partnerships for US federal income tax purposes, US Holders holding ADSs or Ordinary Shares as part of a hedging, conversion or other integrated transaction or whose functional currency is other than the US Dollar and investors liable for alternative minimum tax.
In addition, the comments below do not address US state, local or non-US other than UK taxes.
The summary deals only with US Holders who hold ADSs or Ordinary Shares as capital assets.
The summary is based on current UK and US law and practice which is subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect.
US Holders are recommended to consult their own tax advisors as to the particular tax consequences to them of the ownershipof ADSs orOrdinaryShares.
This discussion is based in part on representations by the depositary and assumes that each obligation under the deposit agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
For purposes of US federal income tax law, US Holders of ADSs will generally be treated as owners of the Ordinary Shares represented by the ADSs.
However, the US Treasury has expressed concerns that parties to whom depositary shares are pre-released may be taking actions that are inconsistent with the claiming of foreign tax credits by owners of ADSs.
Such actions would also be inconsistent with the claiming of the reduced rate of tax, described below, applicable to dividends received by certain noncorporate US Holders.
Accordingly, the analysis of the availability of the reduced tax rate for dividends received by certain non corporate US Holders could be affected by actionsthat may be taken by parties to whomADSs are pre-released.
Taxation of Dividendsin the United Kingdom and the United States The UK does not currently impose a withholding tax on dividends paid by a UK corporation, such as the Company.
Distributions paid by the Company will be treated for US federal income tax purposes as foreign source ordinary dividend income to a US Holder to the extent paid out of the Companys current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Such dividends will not be eligible for the dividendsreceived deductiongenerally allowed to corporateUS Holders.
Dividends paid to certain noncorporate US Holders of Ordinary Shares or ADSs in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 may be subject to US federal income tax at lower rates than other types of ordinary income if certain conditions are met.
Noncorporate US Holders should consult their own tax advisors to determine whether they are subject to any special rules that limittheir ability to be taxed at these favourable rates.
Taxation of Capital Gains US Holders, who are not resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the UK, will not generally be liable for UK capital gains tax on any capital gain realised upon the sale or other disposition of ADSs or Ordinary Shares unless held in connection with a trade carried on in the UK through a permanent establishment or in the case of individuals, through a branch or agency.
Furthermore, UK resident individuals who acquire ADSs or Ordinary Shares before becoming temporarily non-UK residents, may remain subject to UK taxation of capital gains on gains realised whilenon-resident.
For US federal income tax purposes, gains or losses realised upon the sale or disposition of ADSs or Ordinary Shares by US Holders generally will be US source capital gains or losses and will be long-term US source capital 168 gains or losses if the ADSs or Ordinary Shares were held for more than one year.
The amount of the US Holders gain or loss will be equal to the difference between the amount realised on the sale or disposition and such holders tax basis inthe ADSs, orOrdinaryShares, determined inUS Dollars.
Redenomination of ExistingOrdinary Shares UK Taxation The cancellation of the Existing Ordinary Shares and the issue of the new Dollar Shares on 23 January 2006 should not give rise to any liability for the purposes of UK taxation of capital gains as the new Dollar Shares should be treated as the same asset and acquired at the same time as a Shareholder holding of the Ordinary Shares held, priorto the redenomination.
US Taxation No gain or loss will be recognised by a US Holder upon the cancellation of the existing Ordinary Shares on 23 January 2006 and the issue of the new Dollar Shares pursuant to the redenomination.
A US Holders aggregate tax basis in its new Dollar Shares following the redenomination will be the same as the US Holders aggregate tax basis in its existing ordinary Shares prior to the redenomination.
A US Holders holding period for the new Dollar Shares following the redenomination will include the holding period of the existing Ordinary Shares for periods priorto the redenomination.
Any person, wherever their residency, who is in any doubt as to his or her tax position is strongly recommended to consulttheir professional advisors immediately.
Inheritance and Estate Taxes The HM Revenue & Customs imposes inheritance tax on capital transfers which occur on death, and in the seven years preceding death.
The HM Revenue & Customs considers that the US UK Double Taxation Convention on Estate and Gift Tax applies to inheritance tax.
Consequently, a US citizen who is domiciled in the United States and is not a UK national or domiciled in the United Kingdom will not be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of ADSs and Ordinary Shares.
A UK national who is domiciled in the United States will be subject to both UK inheritance tax and US federal estate tax but will be entitled to a credit for US federal estate tax charged in respect of ADSs and Ordinary Shares in computing the liability to UK inheritance tax.
Conversely, a US citizen who is domiciled or deemed domiciled in the United Kingdom will be entitled to a credit for UK inheritance tax charged in respect of ADSs and Ordinary Shares in computing the liability for US federal estate tax.
Special rules apply where ADSs and Ordinary Shares are business property of a permanent establishment of an enterprise situated inthe United Kingdom.
US Information Reporting and Backup WithholdingTax A US Holder may be subject to US information reporting and backup withholding tax on dividends paid or the proceeds of sales from ADSs or Ordinary Shares made within the US or through certain US-related financial intermediaries, unless the US Holder is a corporation or other exempt recipient or, in the case of backup withholding, provides a correct US taxpayer identification number and certain other conditions are met.
US backup withholding tax may also apply if there has been a notification from the US Internal Revenue Service of a failure to report all interest ordividends.
Any backup withholding tax deducted may be credited against the US Holders US federal income tax liability, and, where the withholding tax exceeds the actual liability, the US Holder may obtain a refund by timely filing the appropriate refund claimwiththe US Internal Revenue Service.
UK Stamp Duty and Stamp Duty ReserveTax UK stamp duty is charged on documents and in particular instruments for the transfer of registered ownership of Ordinary Shares.
Transfers of Ordinary Shares in certificated form will generally be subject to UK stamp duty at 1 the rate of 2% of the considerationgiven for the transfer withthe duty roundedup to the nearest 5.
UK stamp duty reserve tax SDRT arises when there is an agreement to transfer shares in UK companies for consideration in money or moneys worth, and so an agreement to transfer Ordinary Shares for money or other 1 considerationmay give rise to a charge to SDRT at the rate of 2% rounded up to the nearest penny.
Thecharge of SDRT will be cancelled, and any SDRT already paid will be refunded, if within six years of the agreement an instrumentof transfer is producedto HM Revenue & Customs and the appropriate stamp duty paid.
169 Investor Information Transfers of Ordinary Shares into CREST an electronic transfer system are exempt from stamp duty so long as the transferee is a member of CREST who will hold the Ordinary Shares as a nominee for the transferor and the transfer is ina form that willensure that the securities become held inuncertificatedform withinCREST.
Paperless transfers of Ordinary Shares within CREST for consideration in money or moneys worth are liable to SDRT rather 1 than stamp duty.
SDRT on relevant transactions will be collected by CREST at 2%, and this will apply whether or not the transfer is effected in the United Kingdom and whether or not the parties to it are resident or situated in the United Kingdom.
1 A charge of stamp duty or SDRT at the rates of 1 2% of the consideration or, in some circumstances, the value of the shares concerned will arise on a transfer or issue of Ordinary Shares to the Depositary or to certain persons providing a clearance service or their nominees or agents for the conversion into ADRs and will generally be payable by the Depositary or person providing clearance service.
In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, any tax or duty payable by the Depositary ondeposits of OrdinaryShares willbe charged by the Depositary to the party to whomADRs are delivered against suchdeposits.
No liability for stamp duty or SDRT will arise on any transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS or beneficial ownership of an ADS, provided that the ADS and any instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer remains at all times outside the United Kingdom, and provided further that any instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer is not executed in the United Kingdom and the transfer does not relate to any matter or thing done or to be done in the United Kingdom the location of the custodian as a holder of Ordinary Shares not being relevant in this context.
In any other case, any transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS or beneficial ownership of an ADS could, depending on all the circumstances of the transfer, give rise to a charge to stamp duty orSDRT.
