SHAREHOLDER RETURN Dividend History Following the capital restructuring and dividend reduction in 2000 the Group adopted a policy of increasing its dividend cover the ratio of EPSA, as set out in the Selected Financial Data, to ordinary dividends declared for the year.
This was intended to increase the financing capability of the Group for acquisitions and other investments.
From 2000 to 2004 the dividend increased in line with inflation and, in 2004, dividend cover stood at 4.1 times.
Having achieved this level of dividend cover the Board changed its policy from that of increasing dividends in line with inflation to that of increasing dividends for 2005 and after by 10%.
Following the redenomination of the Companys share capital into US Dollars the Board re-affirmed its policy of increasing the dividend by 10% a year inUS Dollarterms.
Smith & Nephew has paid dividends on its Ordinary Shares in each year since 1937.
An interim dividend in respect of each fiscal year is normally declared in August and paid in November.
Up to 2004 a final dividend for each year was recommended by the Board of Directors in the following February and paid in May after approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Following shareholder approval in December 2005, the directors may now declare and pay interim dividends.
Following the change in the functional currency of the parent Company to US Dollars in January 2006, a second interim dividend for that year has been declared by the Board in US Dollars with a Sterling equivalent.
This allows the Sterling element of the dividend to be hedged through a forward foreign exchange contract.
In 2006 shareholders received two interim dividends.
Shareholders are also expected to receive two interimdividends annuallyin2007 and thereafter.
Future dividends of Smith & Nephew will be dependent upon: future earnings: the future financial conditionof the Group: the Boards dividend policy: and the additional factors that might affect the business of the Group set out inSpecial Note Regarding  and Risk Factors.
The following table shows the dividends on each Ordinary Share as increased by the associated UK tax credit of 10%, but before deduction of withholding taxes for the fiscal years 2002 through 2006.
The 2006 second interim dividend will be payable in Sterling on 11 May 2007.
All dividends, up to the second interim dividend for 2005, have been declared in pence per Ordinary Share and have been translated into US cents per share at the Noon Buying Rate on the payment date.
All dividends from the second interim dividend for 2005 have been declared in US cents per OrdinaryShare.
