Market value $4 billion Market growth 9% 17% 25% Global market Our company: overview 2006 Smith & Nephew KCI Convatec Advanced Wound 26% 6% Molnlycke 3M Johnson & Johnson 7% Management Others 8% 11% What we do We provide a range of products that help In 2006 we also launched the IODOSORB Cadexomer Iodine doctors and nurses treat dif cult-to-heal wounds, such range in the US.
These products contain iodine bound into a as pressure sores, venous leg ulcers, burns and complex starch matrix: the iodine is released on contact with moisture surgical wounds.
Our products support customers clinical in the wound and kills a broad spectrum of bacteria quickly, approach to managing wounds, helping them to identify the while a unique slow-release mechanism means the product best treatment, the best way to prepare the wound and the is effective for up to three days.
We believe the products best way to stimulate the wound area to promote full and combination of effectiveness and durability will prove fast healing.
attractive to customers and patients.
Our strength comes from our ability to develop new Our VERSAJET Hydrosurgery System, which removes dead technologies and transform these into affordable, high quality tissue from in and around wounds, achieved strong growth products that reduce the cost of treatment and improve the in its second full year and won recognition in Wall Street healing process.
While competitors tend to focus on one type Journals 2006 Technology Innovation Awards.
The device of product, we provide a full portfolio to customers and our accelerates a hair-thin stream of uid to the speed of sound, products are used to treat the largest number of wounds in enabling surgeons to simultaneously grasp, cut and remove our sector worldwide.
We support the product range with damaged tissue and contaminants with great precision.
The comprehensive learning and education programmes for systems exceptional accuracy means it causes less damage medical staff and patients and every year we train more to surrounding tissue than existing surgical methods.
Where were going The potential rewards for success in How we performed Our new management team, this market are considerable.
Continued economic pressure appointed in 2006 and led by our president Joe Woody, on healthcare systems, an ageing population and increasing was successful in increasing both revenue and margin this concern about superbugs and their resistance to antibiotics year.
Overall revenue growth was 1% but after adjustments means demand for both innovation and affordable solutions for the exit from the DERMAGRAFT tissue engineering is strong and growing.
Growth in the US was 11% excluding the DERMAGRAFT tissue engineering business.
We concentrate on demonstrating that our products and customer service can generate better results for patients We continued to prioritise our innovative ALLEVYN and and greater value for healthcare systems.
This focus will ACTICOAT dressing ranges, achieving revenue growth.
enable us to invest more in developing and commercialising Our ALLEVYN product is the biggest selling woundcare innovative products and supporting our customers.
With product in the market for moist wound healing dressings.
many competitors seeking to compete on price, our ability It can be left in place for much longer than traditional to deliver both greater economic and clinical value helps dressings such as gauze and tape, saving nursing time us to compete successfully.
ACTICOAT dressings use Nanocrystalline Silver to protect wounds from bacteria including so-called A pa tented technology of NUCRYST Pharmaceuticals Corp. superbugs such as MRSA and VRE which can delay or complicate the healing process.
In 2006 we enhanced the ALLEVYN range through the launch of a highly absorbent version of our Adhesive range of dressings and a shaped and sealed version of the standard, non-adhesive range.
DERMAGRAFT is a trademark of Advanced Biohealing Inc. 13 2006 Summary For more information visit Financial Statement www.
