NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS A.
General Information Sale of Assetsand Business The Company entered into an agreement with Smith & Nephew UK Limited, a subsidiary company, to sell the net trading assets and business, excluding intellectual property, of Smith & Nephew plc at net book value with effect from 1 January 2006.
Assets with a fair value of 35m were settled by the transfer of liabilities witha fair value of 22m and an intercompanyloanof 13m.
Presentation of Financial Information The Company redenominated its share capital into US Dollars on 23 January 2006 and will retain distributable reserves and declare dividends in US Dollars.
Consequently its functional currency became the US Dollar.
Financial information for prior periods has been restated from Sterling into US Dollars in accordance with FRS 23.
As a result the presentational currency of the Company i. e. US Dollars in the restated 2005 accountsis different from the functionalcurrencyof the Company.
Share capital and share premium in comparative periods was translated at the rate of exchange on the date of redenomination.
Accounting Policies The separate accounts of the parent company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as described below, and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
In applying these policies management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Research and Development Revenue expenditure onresearch and development is written off as incurred.
ForeignCurrencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences are dealt with in arriving at profit before taxation.
Tangible Fixed Assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation and provision for impairment where appropriate.
Plant and equipment is depreciated over lives ranging between three and 20 years by equal annual instalments to write downthe assets to their estimated disposal value at the end of their workinglives.
LeasingCommitments Rentals payable underoperating leases are charged to the profit and loss accountas incurred.
Investments Investments insubsidiaries are stated at cost less provisionfor impairment.
Financial Instruments Currency swaps are used to match foreign currency net assets with foreign currency liabilities.
They are initially recorded at fair value and then for reporting purposes remeasured to fair value at 150
