INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS  The Group currently issues a summary report on the year, the Summary Financial Statement, unless a shareholder requests the Groups full Annual Report.
Over 90% of non-US shareholders have chosen to only receive a copy of the Summary Financial Statement.
Following the NYSEs decision that companies do not have to send a hard copy of the Annual Report and Accounts to ADS holders the Company will not be sending a copy of the Annual Report and Accounts or Summary Financial Statement to ADS holders.
The documents will be available on the Groups website at www.
com and ADS holders can request hard copies of these documents which will be provided free of charge should they so wish.
In addition, following the enactment of enabling provisions in UK law in January 2007, the Company is seeking shareholder approval at the 2007 AGM to give the flexibility to have electronic communications as the default position for shareholders.
If the Company did adopt these changes, shareholders wouldstill be able to receive hard copies if they so wished.
At the half year, an Interim Report was previously sent to all shareholders.
In 2006, the Interim Report was published in a national newspaper and from 2007, following regulatory changes in the UK, the Interim Report will be made available through Stock Exchange announcements and on the Groups website.
Quarterly reports are made available through Stock Exchange announcements and on the Groups website.
Hard copies are available on request.
Copies of recent Annual Reports, Summary Financial Statements and Interim Reports are also available on the Smith & Nephew website along with press releases, institutional presentations and audio webcasts.
 There is a regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders, together with results presentations.
To ensure that all members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, the executive directors review significant issues raised by investors with the Board.
In addition, during 2006, the Chairman and two non-executive directors met withseveral major shareholders.
 are sent copies of analysts and brokers briefings.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the directors at the AGM, at which the level of proxy votes received are advised, and the Company regularly responds to letters from shareholders ona range of issues.
Financial Calendar Quarter One results announcedand AGM 3 May 2007 Payment of 2006 second interimdividend 11 May 2007 Half year results announced 2 August 2007 i Quarter Threeresults announced 1 November 2007 Payment of 2007 first interimdividend November 2007 Full year results announced February 2008 i AnnualReport available March2008 AnnualGeneral Meeting May 2008 i Dividend declaration dates.
Dividend The Ordinary Shares and ADSs will trade ex-dividend on both the London and New York Stock Exchanges respectively from 18 April 2007 and the record date will be 20 April 2007 in respect of the second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 6.71 per Ordinary Share to be paid on 11 May 2007.
All shareholders willreceive the Sterling equivalent of 3.41 pence per OrdinaryShare.
Ordinary Shares Payment of cash dividends Shareholders who wish their dividends to be paid directly to a bank or building society and who have not already completed an electronicbank transfer mandate shouldcontactthe Companys Registrars.
 plan The Company has a dividend re-investment plan that offers shareholders, except those in North America, the opportunity to invest their cash dividends in further Smith & Nephew Ordinary Shares, which are purchased in 160 the market at competitive dealing costs.
Application forms for re-investing the 2006 second interim dividend and for future dividends are available from Lloyds TSB Registrars whoadminister the plan onbehalf of the Company.
UK capital gains tax For the purposes of UK capital gains tax the priceof OrdinaryShares on31 March1982 was 35.04p.
Smith & Nephew share price The Companys share price is available on the Smith & Nephew website www.
com where it is updated at intervals throughout the day.
It is quoted daily in UK nationalnewspapers, as well as onCeefax and Teletext.
Share dealing service A postal and telephone facility that provides a competitive method of buying and selling Smith & Nephew shares is available through Hoare Govett Ltd. For information contact Hoare Govett Ltd. 250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA, UK.
Lloyds TSB Registrars or your bank or building society may also provide a share dealing service.
Smith & Nephew corporateISA The Company has a corporate Individual Savings Account ISA, for UK shareholders, administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
For informationabout this service please contacttheir helplineontelephone 0870 2424 244.
Shareview To view information about your shareholdings on the internet, register at www.
com, the Lloyds TSB Registrars enquiry and portfolio management service for shareholders.
When you have registered for shareview you will also be able to register your proxy instructions online and elect to receive future shareholder communications via our website at www.
Such electronic communications cut down printing and distributioncosts and are less harmfulto the environment.
Shareholder enquiries For information about the AGM, shareholdings, dividends and changes to personal details all shareholders should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DS, UK on telephone 0870 600 3996.
American DepositaryReceipts ADRs In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the form of ADSs, evidenced by ADRs, and trade on the NYSE under the symbol SNN.
Each American Depositary Share represents five Ordinary Shares.
The Bank of New York is the authorised depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme.
A Global BuyDIRECT plan is available for US residents, enabling investment directly in ADSs with reduced brokerage commissions and service costs.
For further information on Global BuyDIRECT contact: Bank of New York on 1-888-BNY-ADRS toll-free or visit www.
The Company furnishes the Bank of New York, as depositary, with copies of this annual report containing Consolidated Financial Statements and the opinionexpressed thereon by its independent auditors.
Suchfinancial statements are prepared under IFRS.
The annual report contains reconciliations of net income and equity prepared under IFRS to those prepared under US GAAP.
Upon receipt thereof, the Bank of New York will mail all such reports to recorded holders who have elected to receive hard copy versions.
The Company also furnishes to The Bank of New York all notices of shareholders meetings and other reports and communicationsthat are made generally available to shareholders of the Company.
The Bank of New York makes such notices, reports and communications available for inspection by recorded holders of ADSs and mails to all recorded holders of ADSs noticesof shareholders meetings received by TheBankof New York.
Smith & Nephew ADS price The Companys ADS price can be obtained from the official New York Stock Exchange website at www.
com and is quoted daily inthe Wall Street Journal.
161 Investor Information ADS Enquiries All enquiries regarding ADS holder accounts and payment of dividends should be addressed to The Bank of New York, PO Box 11258, ChurchStreet Station, New York, NY 10286-1258, USA.
Annual General Meeting The Companys seventieth Annual General Meeting is to be held on 3 May 2007 at The Institute of Mechanical Engineers, 1 Birdcage Walk, London, SW1H 9JJ, UK at 2pm.
Notice of the meeting is enclosed with an accompanyingletter from the Chairman.
Corporate Headquarters and Registeredoffice The corporate headquarters is in the UK and the registered office address is: Smith & Nephew plc, 15 Adam Street, London WC2N 6LA, UK.
Registered in England and Wales No.
com Advisors Solicitors: Ashurst Pinsent Masons Auditors: Ernst & YoungLLP Stockbrokers: JP MorganCazenove Dresdner Kleinwort 162
