Market value arthroscopy $2 billion Market growth 9% 13% 23% Global market 8% overview 2006 Smith & Nephew Arthrex 9% Mitek Our company: Stryker 19% Linvatec 11% Arthrocare Endoscopy Others 17% What we do We are the global market leader in arthroscopy Labral tears can be traumatic or degenerative and are minimally invasive surgery to treat and repair cartilage, common in athletes who make sudden stops or turns.
tendons and ligaments in articulating joints such as the knee, The BIORAPTOR anchor enables surgeons to close a tear shoulder and hip.
Often performed in day surgery centres, or tighten the labral tissue as required.
2006 also saw us these procedures involve much smaller incisions than launch our user-friendly Hip Positioning System: this attaches traditional open surgery with less trauma for the patients to standard operating room tables and removes the need to body.
This leads to quicker recovery times and a marked use fracture tables, which are cumbersome and costly.
improvement in function and quality of life.
In July 2006 we acquired OsteoBiologics Inc OBI, the only We develop and distribute uid management systems for company to provide off-the-shelf bioabsorbable implants for surgical access: scopes, cameras and light sources for articular cartilage repair in Europe.
This is a very promising visualisation: radiofrequency wands, arthroscopic shaver market opportunity as less than 20% of cartilage defects in blades and hand instruments for removing damaged soft the knee are treated due to the lack of an effective, tissue: and joint xation systems.
We are experts in the use patient-friendly solution.
of bioabsorbable materials to repair tissue.
We also design and support Digital Operating Rooms DOR customWe also introduced two potentially valuable innovations in the designed surgical suites that use advanced digital imaging DOR.
CONDOR Control System is user-friendly equipment and information management technologies.
for monitoring and managing devices during a procedure, while the high-fide nition 660HD Image Management System How we performed In 2006 we increased revenue 9%.
captures, distributes and prints digital endoscopic images.
Revenue from arthroscopic repair products was up 19%, driven by the success of continuous innovation in our Where were going Our market is strong.
The treatment shoulder, hip and knee repair product portfolios.
of sports injuries for all age groups combined with a growing population of more active people is increasing Successful product launches meant new products accounted demand for treatment.
We are seeing more patients opting for 28% of revenue.
These included the introduction of for endoscopic procedures, and more payors responding the CALAXO Osteoconductive Interference Screw, which favourably to the clinical effectiveness of endoscopic promotes bone regrowth around the ligament xation site treatments.
Unlike metal screws, which remain in the body unless removed by further surgery, the CALAXO Led by Michael Frazzette, who was appointed president screw is resorbed while compounds within the screw in July 2006, we have established clear strategic priorities.
stimulate the natural process of bone formation, speeding Our emphasis will be on our core arthroscopy business the patients return to an active life.
We are first to market with and leveraging more strongly our leading position in this this unique technology and intend to build on its capabilities.
We will continue to focus on developing a very strong pipeline of knee, shoulder, hip and small joint repair Early in the year we launched the BIORAPTOR Suture Anchor products to enhance our market position.
for arthroscopic repair of the hip joint.
It is the first device cleared by the FDA to repair the labrum, a ring of cartilage We look forward to launching our new generation camera that helps to stabilise the hip joint.
in 2007, which will offer true high fide nition to our surgeon customers.
We will also explore and develop the cartilage repair applications from our acquisition of OBI to establish ourselves in this exciting new market.
We believe this technology has great potential to make a major difference to the treatment of patients suffering from cartilage degeneration.
11 2006 Summary For more information visit Financial Statement www.
com endoscopy Hospital Fondazione Macchi, Varese, Italy Smith & Nephew wound expert Paolo Giudici dedicates much of his time to helping woundcare specialists and nurses such as Ornella Forma train colleagues and maximise the bene ts of our range of dressings and cleaning systems.
Demonstrating the bene ts We make some of the worlds most advanced woundcare technologies, such as ALLEVYN and ACTICOAT dressings, but thats not the only reason we stand out in a crowded market.
Whenever our specialists provide education and training support for customers they also learn from them, enabling both sides to get excellent clinical and financial results from our products.
