DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE ACCOUNTS The directors are responsible for preparing the Group and Parent Company accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.
As a consequence of the Parent companys Ordinary Shares being traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares the directors are responsible for the preparation and filing of an annual report on Form 20-F with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The directors are required to prepare Group accounts for each financial year, in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the European Union EU which present fairly the financial position of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period.
In preparing those Group accounts, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimatesand Errorsand then apply them consistently: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable comparable and understandable information: Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of , other events and conditionsonthe Groups financialpositionand financialperformance:and State that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
Under United Kingdom law the directors have elected to prepare the Parent company accounts in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, which are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Parent company and of the profit or loss of the Parent company for that period.
In preparing the Parent company accounts, the directors are required to: Select suitable  then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained inthe accounts:and Prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continueinbusiness.
Thedirectors confirmthat they have compliedwiththe above requirements inpreparing the accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Parent company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, in the case of the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Parent company and hencefor takingreasonable steps for the preventionand detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
It should be noted that information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and disseminationof accountsmay differ from legislation inother jurisdictions.
