Principal Subsidiary Undertakings continued Principal Associated Undertakings, Joint Ventures and Other Arrangements Until 23 February 2006, the Group owned 50% of BSN Medical GmbH & Co KG, a medical supplies  located inGermany.
DifferencesBetween IFRS and Accounting PrinciplesGenerally Accepted in the US The Group accounts are prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU which differ in certain respects from US GAAP.
Differences that existed between UK GAAP, which was used before IFRS, will continue to exist in certain areas as a result of the transitional provisions applied under IFRS 1 even though an IFRS accounting policy may be the same, or similar, to that applied under US GAAP.
Those differences which have or could have a significant effect on the Groups profit for the financial year and equity are as follows: Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Under IFRS, goodwill is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews whereas other intangible assets are capitalised and amortised over their useful lives.
This is generally consistent with US GAAP, except that the goodwill balance recognised under IFRS at the transition date of 1 January 2003 is the balance recognised under UK GAAP adjusted for certain fair value adjustments.
Intangible assets separately identified and amortised under US GAAP on acquisition prior to the transition date of 1 January 2003 were not separately identified under UK GAAP and not restated on adoption of IFRS but were included as part of goodwill.
These differences will remain for the foreseeable future unless and until impairment charges are recorded orthe disposal of the related business occurs.
Under UK GAAP, since 1998, goodwill on acquisition was capitalised and amortised over a period not exceeding 20 years.
Under IFRS, from 1 January 2003 goodwill is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Under US GAAP, prior to 2002 goodwill has been capitalised and amortised over its expected useful life.
Commencing 2002, goodwill has not been amortised and is subject to annual impairmentreviews.
Under IFRS, purchase consideration contingent on a future event is estimated and included as part of the cost at the date of acquisition, discounting the amounts payable to fair value as at the date of acquisition.
This estimate is revised each year until the eventual outcome is certain.
Under US GAAP, contingent consideration is not recognised until the contingency is resolved or the amount is determinable.
Upon the resolution of the contingency, the cost of the acquisition is adjusted.
The accretion of the contingent consideration discounting taken to profit in accordance with IFRS does not arise under US GAAP since the liabilityfor the considerationis not recognisedinthe balance sheet untilthe contingencyis resolved.
Under IFRS, goodwill is allocated to a cash-generating unit CGU and any impairment is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the CGU to the recoverable amount of the CGU.
Under US GAAP, goodwill is assessed at a reporting unit level equivalent to the CGU for the Groups purpose and the Group applies a two-step impairment method: a the carrying amount of the reporting unit is compared to its fair value: b if a indicates an impairment, then this is measured by comparing the implied fair value of the goodwill within that reportingunitwiththe carryingamountof that goodwill.
Under IFRS, other intangible assets subject to amortisation are tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the asset or asset group to its recoverable amount.
Under US GAAP, the Group applies a two-step impairment method: a the carrying amount of the asset or asset group is compared to the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposal of the asset: b if a indicates an impairment this is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset or asset group to its fair value.
Joint Venture Prior to its disposal in 2006, one of the components of the goodwill in the joint venture, under IFRS, was the difference between the fair value of consideration given and the book value of net assets acquired in the joint venture by the Group.
Under US GAAP, this gain was not recognised on formation of the joint venture but has been recognisedinthe current year as part of the profit ondisposal.
DifferencesBetween IFRS and Accounting PrinciplesGenerally Accepted in the US continued Under IFRS, goodwill arising on the formation of the joint venture was not amortised but was subject to annual impairment review.
Under US GAAP, this goodwill was amortised until December 2001.
Under US GAAP, in previous years impairment of the investment in the joint venture was assessed in accordance  OpinionNo.
On 1 October 2005 the Group ceased to equity account for its interest in the joint venture, under IFRS, following the announcement of the intention to sell this interest.
It has also classified all results relating to this interest in the income statement as discontinued.
Under US GAAP, the interest does not qualify as being discontinued and the Group continued to equity account until disposal of the interest in February 2006, withthe Groups share of the joint ventures trading profit reported inearningsinequity.
The profit on disposal under US GAAP differs from that calculated in accordance with IFRS for the above factors.
Additionally, as the currency translation differences were set to nil at 1 January 2003 under IFRS, the amount of translation differences recycled through profit on disposal in accordance with US GAAP is different from that underIFRS.
Furthermore since the disposal is treated as part of continuing operations for US GAAP, the profit is shown before tax with the related tax on the disposal shown in the income tax line.
Under IFRS the disposal is classified as a  shownnet of related tax.
Retirement Benefits Under IFRS, deficits on defined benefit plans are recognised on the balance sheet with actuarial gains and losses included directly in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Under US GAAP, actuarial gains and losses that exceed 10% of the greater of the obligation and assets are amortised over the average remaining service period of employees on a straight line basis.
In addition, following the adoption of FAS 158 from 31 December 2006, the deficit on defined benefit plans is recognised on the balance sheet with changes in the funded status being recognised through other comprehensive income.
Prior periods have not been restated for FAS 158 and are accounted for under FAS 87.
As such, where the value of plan assets was below the value of liabilities valued on an accumulated benefit obligation basis, a minimum pensionliabilitywas  comprehensiveincome.
Taxation IFRS and US GAAP both provide deferred taxation on a full provision basis.
However, there are certain specific differences in the methodology used by IAS 12 and FAS 109.
These comprise deferred tax arising as a result of the elimination of intra-group transactions and deferred tax on share based payments.
In addition, where appropriate, deferred tax has been provided on other accounting differences identified between IFRS and US GAAP.
 and Hedging Activities Under the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, comparative information for periods up until 31 December 2004 for financial instruments was not restated for IFRS but retained its presentation as reported under previous UK GAAP.
Reference to UK GAAP in the following policies refers to the accounting presentation for the 2004 comparatoryear only.
Under IFRS, on adoption of IAS 39 on 1 January 2005 derivative financial instruments were recorded at fair value with the gain or loss taken directly to equity and later recognised in the income statement in the same period that the hedged item affected income.
Under US GAAP, the derivative financial instruments were already at fair value withthe gain loss havinggonethroughthe incomestatement inprioryears.
Gains and losses taken directly to equity under IFRS on adoption of IAS 39 were recognised in the income statement in 2005.
Under US GAAP, these gains and losses were taken through the income statement in prioryears whichresults ina GAAP difference inthe 2005 incomestatement inrespect of these amounts.
No further differences arose on the accounting for derivative financial instruments during 2005 or 2006 on remeasurement to fair value at the balance sheet date.
DifferencesBetween IFRS and Accounting PrinciplesGenerally Accepted in the US continued Under UK GAAP, derivative instruments in respect of anticipated future foreign currency transactions, interest rate risks and intragroup equity investments were accounted for as hedges.
Differences to US GAAP arose, in 2004, as US GAAP requires all derivative instruments including those embedded in other contracts to be recognised as either assets or liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at their fair values.
US GAAP prescribes requirements for designation and documentation of hedging relationships and ongoing assessments of effectiveness in order to qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as part of a hedge transaction would be recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive income, depending on the type of hedge transaction.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting would be recognised each period in profit for the financialyear.
Forward ForeignExchange Contracts In 2004 forward foreign exchange contracts in respect of anticipated future foreign currency transactions were treated as hedges under UK GAAP and not marked to market.
Gains and losses thereon were recognised only when the exposure that was being hedged was itself recognised.
Under US GAAP, such contracts were valued using the forward rates at the balance sheet date and the gains and losses which did not qualify as hedges included in profit for the financial year.
On maturity of the contract the gain loss not recognisedto date was recognisedinprofit for the financialyear.
Interest Rate Swaps In 2004 interest rate swaps used to fix interest rates on the Groups major exposures were treated as hedges under UK GAAP and not marked to market.
Under US GAAP, these swaps were not treated as hedges, as the requirements to qualify were not met and gains and losses on valuing such contracts at the balance sheet date were includedinprofit for the financialyear.
Currency Swaps In previous years, currency swaps were used to hedge intra Group equity investments and under UK GAAP realised and unrealised gains losses were not recognised in profit for the year but were recorded as movements in equity.
In 2004, due to the more prescriptive documentary requirements under US GAAP compared to UK GAAP these swaps did not qualify to be treated as hedges and the gains and losses recorded as movements in equity under UK GAAP were included in the profit for the financial year under US GAAP.
Acquired In-ProcessResearch and Development Under IFRS, acquired in-process research and development is capitalised as an intangible asset during the development phase.
Once the associated output is available for use the intangible asset is amortised over its useful economic life.
Under US GAAP, acquired in-process research and development is charged to the income statement in the selling, general, administrative and research and development expenses line on the date of acquisition.
Capitalised Interest Under IFRS, the Group does not capitalise interest incurred in financing fixed asset additions.
Under US GAAP, interest incurred as part of the cost of constructing fixed assets under long-term projects is capitalised and amortised over the life of the asset.
Stock Based Compensation On 1 January 2006, the Group adopted FAS 123 R Share Based Payment, underthe modified prospective method, for US reporting requirements.
As such no restatement of prior periods is necessary.
Since the Group already accounted for stock based compensation schemes under the fair value provisions of IFRS 2 and FAS 123, this adoption did not have a material impact.
The UK Approved and Unapproved plans have, however an inflation-related vesting condition, which, under FAS 123 R, requires awards not vested at the date of transition, and new awards made subsequent to this date, to be recognised as liabilities based on their fair value at each reporting date until vesting has taken place, at which point the liability is transferred to reserves.
DifferencesBetween IFRS and Accounting PrinciplesGenerally Accepted in the US continued The revaluation of the UK Approved and Unapproved awards has had no impact on income, cashflow or earnings per share.
Prior to the adoption of FAS 123 R, the LTIP was valued on an intrinsic value basis for US reporting.
Since all charges were materially recognised by 31 December 2005 for the LTIP adoption of FAS 123 R had noimpact onthe incomestatement.
Factoring of debts Under IFRS, trade debtors excludes those covered by any non-recourse factoring agreements as substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the factor.
Under US GAAP, the factored debts are includedwithintrade debtors and the .
Provisions Under IFRS, provisions are made for restructuring and rationalisation expenses expected to be incurred once management is committed to a detailed formal plan and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the plan.
Under US GAAP, costs associated with exit or disposal activities are provided when incurred except for one-time termination benefits that are recognised over the remaining future service period.
Under IFRS, where an operating lease is considered onerous, a provision for the present value of net future lease obligations is made at that point.
Under US GAAP, a liability for such a lease is only provided when the entity ceases usingthe rightconveyedby the lease.
Staff Costs Under IFRS, an accrual for employers liability for payroll taxes is made at the date when share options are granted.
This is adjusted annually for movements in the value of the options.
Under US GAAP, an employers liabilityfor payroll taxes is recognisedonlyonthe exercise of the share options.
Cumulative Translation Reserve Under IFRS the  reserve was set to nilat 1 January 2003 i. e. the transitiondate to IFRS and all subsequent movements charged to the cumulative translation reserve included in Other Reserves in equity.
Under US GAAP, the cumulative translation reserve named Currencytranslation differences was translated from Sterling to US Dollars at 1 January 2002 i. e. the start of the first year presented in the five year summary and all subsequent movements charged to the currency translation differences reserve includedinequity.
As a consequenceof the different amounts inthe  reserve priorto 1 January 2003 different amounts may be recycledfrom equity intoincomeondisposal of a foreignoperation.
Earnings Per Ordinary Share Adjusted basic earnings per Ordinary Share and adjusted diluted earnings per Ordinary Share as described inNote 11 are permitted measures underIFRS.
Under US GAAP, these wouldnot be permissible.
DifferencesBetween IFRS and Accounting PrinciplesGenerally Accepted in the US continued Effect of Differences The effect of the adjustments to attributable profit for the year and to equity that would be required if US GAAP were to be applied instead of IFRS is summarised as follows.
The condensed consolidated income statement presented below reflects the adjustments to attributable profit for the year.
Restated ii Restated ii 2006 2005 2004 cents Basic earningsas adjusted for US GAAP Per Ordinary Share i............................................ 75.3 32.8 27.5 Diluted earningsas adjusted for US GAAP Per Ordinary Share i............................................ 75.1 32.7 27.3 Basic earningsas adjusted for US GAAP Per ADS i........ 377 164 138 Diluted earningsas adjusted for US GAAP Per ADS i....... 376 164 137 i Allthe above earnings are derived fromcontinuing operations.
DifferencesBetween IFRS and Accounting PrinciplesGenerally Accepted in the US continued ComprehensiveIncome Theconsolidated statement of  GAAP is as follows: Restated i Restated i 2006 2005 2004 $ million Net income........................................... 709 308 257 : Unfunded accumulatedbenefit obligationand additional .............................. 53 6 Tax onunfunded accumulatedbenefit obligationand additional .............................. 18 2 Losses gains oncash flow hedges....................... 4 6 Tax oncash flow hedges................................ 1 1  netof related tax of nil :   net of hedges............................................ 64 132 56 Cumulative translation adjustment ondisposal of the joint venture............................................ 21 Other Comprehensiveincome............................ 75 127 60 Comprehensiveincome................................. 784 181 317 i Asrestated see pages144 -145.
DifferencesBetween IFRS and Accounting PrinciplesGenerally Accepted in the US continued Additional Information in Respect of Earnings Per Share The following table sets out the computation of basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share from continuingoperations underUS GAAP: 2006 2005 2004 $ million Numerator: Net income....................................................... 709 308 257 Numeratorfor basic and diluted earningsper OrdinaryShare............... 709 308 257 2006 2005 2004 Shares million Denominator: Denominatorfor basic earningsper OrdinaryShare....................... 941 938 935 Effect of dilutive securities: share optionschemes......................... 3 4 7 Denominatorfor diluted earningsper OrdinaryShare...................... 944 942 942 Basic earningsper OrdinaryShare from continuingoperations............... 75.3 32.8 27.5 Diluted earningsper OrdinaryShare from continuingoperations............. 75.1 32.7 27.3 Additional Information in Respect of Impairment Intangible assets separately identified under US GAAP, consisting of intellectual property for bi-polar radio frequency technology which arose when the endoscopy business acquired ORATEC Interventions, Inc. in 2002, were impaired by $43 million in 2005 as a result of revised sales and profit forecasts arising from the settlement of the Groups patent dispute with ArthroCare Corp in September 2005.
The impairment reduced the intangible assets to fair value, which was calculated by discounting projected cash flows over the remaining useful life of the intellectual property using the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
The impairment loss was included within selling, general, administrative and research and development expenses inthe condensed consolidated incomestatement.
DifferencesBetween IFRS and Accounting PrinciplesGenerally Accepted in the US continued Adoption of SFASNo.
158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension andOther PostRetirement Plans FAS 158 In September 2006, the FASB issued FAS 158.
As required, the effective date for the Groups adoption of FAS 158 is 31 December 2006.
The following table provides a breakdown of the incremental effect of applying FAS 158  inthe Groups Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2006: Incremental Before effect of After Application applying application of FAS 158 FAS 158 of FAS 158 $ million Retirement benefit obligation............................ 30 124 154 Deferred taxation..................................... 10 44 54 Total liabilityinBalance Sheet........................... 20 80 100 Accumulated other comprehensiveincome before taxation... 54 124 178 Taxation effect....................................... 17 44 61 Total equity.......................................... 37 80 117 Additional Information in Respect of the Groups Two Principal Defined Benefit Pension Plans The two principal defined benefit pension plans are those in the UK and the US.
DifferencesBetween IFRS and Accounting PrinciplesGenerally Accepted in the US continued The assumption for the expected long-term rate of return on assets is based on separate long-term assumptions for each of the major asset classes weighted by the asset allocation.
The long-term assumptions for bonds are based on long-term market yields at the accounting date.
The long-term rate of return on equities is the Groups best estimate of future returns with consideration having been given to  returns achieved onequities.
In the UK plan, the assets principally comprise UK and other listed equities, bank deposits and UK Government index-linked stocks.
The long-term investment strategy for the UK Plan is for sufficient index linked and fixed interest investments to be held to match in the medium term the excess of benefits over contributions.
The balance of the UK Plans investments will be invested in equities and property unit trusts.
TheUK Plan is not permitted to have a direct shareholdinginSmith & Nephew plc orassociated companies.
In the US plan, the assets principally comprise US equities, other listed equities and fixed income securities.
The long-term investment strategy for the US Plan is a long-term rate of return on assets that is at least 5% to 6% greater than the rate of inflation as measured by the Consumer Price Index.
This target rate of return for the Plan is based upon the assumption that future real rates of return will be close to the historical long run rates of return experienced for each asset class.
Market performance varies and a real rate of return of between 5% and 6% may not be achievable during some periods.
The US Plan is not permitted to have a direct shareholdinginSmith & Nephew plc orassociated companies.
In 2007, an estimated net loss of $7m for the UK and US defined benefit pension plans will be amortised from accumulated other comprehensive income to net pension benefit cost.
No such adjustment will be required for other post retirement plans.
The net pre-taxation loss recognised in accumulated other comprehensive income at 31 December 2006 for the UK plan was $100m and $74m for the US plan.
DifferencesBetween IFRS and Accounting PrinciplesGenerally Accepted in the US continued Additional information in respectof the Groups healthcare benefits after retirement in the UK and the US The movement in the accumulated retirement benefit obligation under the Groups retirement healthcare schemes is as follows: 2006 2005 UK US UK US $ million At 1 January........................................ 7 16 7 14 Interest cost........................................ 1 1 Benefits paid....................................... 1 1 Actuarial loss....................................... 2 2 Exchange adjustment................................. 1 At 31 December..................................... 8 18 7 16 2005 2005 UK Plan US Plan $ million Accumulated benefit obligation............................................ 7 16 Unrecognisednet loss................................................... 6 Accruedhealthcare cost................................................. 7 10 The pre-taxation net loss recognised in accumulated other comprehensive income at 31 December 2006 for the UK plan was niland $7m for the US plan.
The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernisation Act of 2003 was signed into law in December 2003 and established a prescription drug benefit, as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree healthcare benefit plans that provide a prescription drug benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicares prescription drug coverage.
The Groups US healthcare plan is regarded as actuarially equivalent to Medicares prescription drug coverage, however no subsidy has been applied for in 2006 or priorfinancialyears.
This can be allocated as follows: 2006 $30m Endoscopy, $20m Reconstruction and $3m Advanced Wound Management 2005 $5m Reconstruction, $2m Trauma and Clinical Therapies and $5m Advanced Wound Management.
ii The estimated amortisation of intangible assets as at 31 December 2006 for the next five years under US GAAP is as follows: 2007 $36m, 2008 $30m, 2009 $26m, 2010 $21m and 2011 $19m.
Additional Information Regarding Provisionsfor Bad and Doubtful Debts Additions Balance charged at to costs Balance beginning and Exchange at end of of year expenses differences Deductions i year $ million Year ended 31 December 2006... 93 48 13 128 Year ended 31 December 2005... 38 65 1 11 93 Year ended 31 December 2004... 13 34 1 10 38 i Represents the excess ofamounts writtenoffover recoveries.
Prior Year Restatement As described in Note 25 of the Notes to the Group Accounts, the prior year comparatives prepared in accordance with IFRS have been restated.
The prior year comparatives prepared in accordance with US GAAP are also restated: a To correct the method of calculating the elimination of intra-group profit carried in inventory, the effect of which is to reduce the amount of overhead expense included in inventory valuation.
This correction has a  taxation effect.
The correctionto the prioryear comparatives prepared inaccordancewithUS GAAP is the same as that under IFRS.
The impact of deferred tax on the adjustment is, however, different from that calculated in accordancewithIFRS due to  inthe calculation.
DifferencesBetween IFRS and Accounting PrinciplesGenerally Accepted in the US continued b To correct the classification of certain indirect production overhead expenses from Administration expenses to Cost of goods sold.
This reclassification in the prior year comparatives prepared in accordance with US GAAP is the same as that underIFRS.
Under IFRS, an additional restatement for a change in accounting policy for the recognition of the death-in-service benefits liability in the UK pension plan was made which also had a consequential deferred taxation effect.
This adjustment was previously a reconciling item in the IFRS US GAAP reconciliation.
The US GAAP accounting policy is unchanged, thus, no restatement has been made to the prior year comparatives prepared inaccordancewithUS GAAP.
The effects of the above restatements on the Consolidated Income Statement, Comprehensive Income, Earnings per share and Group Balance Sheet are as follows: Comprehensive Consolidated IncomeStatement Income Earnings per share Income Translation before Income Net income adjustment incometax tax from continuing arisingon expense expense operations consolidation Basic Diluted $ million centper ordinaryshare 2005 As previously reported........... 428 114 314 137 33.5 33.3 Correctionof elimination of intragroupprofit... 9 3 6 5 0.7 0.6 As restated.......... 419 111 308 132 32.8 32.7 2004 As previously reported........... 335 75 260 59 27.8 27.6 Correctionof elimination of intragroupprofit... 8 5 3 3 0.3 0.3 As restated.......... 327 70 257 56 27.5 27.3 i The effect of the reclassification of indirect production overheads resulted in the following: cost of goods sold increased by $37m in 2005 2004 $39m and selling, general, administrative and research and development expenses decreased by $37m in 2005 2004 $39m.
