OPERATING ACTIVITIES SALES, MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Smith & Nephews customers are the various providers of medical and surgical services worldwide.
In certain parts of the world, including the UK, much of Continental Europe, Canada and Japan, these are largely governmental organisations funded by tax revenues.
In the US, the Groups major customers are public and private hospitals, which receive revenue from private health insurance and governmental reimbursement programmes.
In the US, Medicare is the major source of reimbursement for knee and hip reconstruction procedures and for  regimes.
Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
In many countries, providers are under pressure to reduce the total cost of healthcare delivery.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as amongst the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue in the long term.
Smith & Nephew competes against both specialised and multinational corporations, includingthose withgreater financial, marketingand other resources.
The Groups customers reflect the wide range of distribution channels, purchasing agents and buying entities in over 90 countries worldwide.
The largest single customers worldwide are the National Health Service in the UK and HealthTrust in the US.
Sales to these customers in 2006 each represented approximately 3% of the Groups worldwiderevenue.
In the US the Groups products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities.
Each business unit operates a separate specialised sales force.
In both reconstruction and endoscopy the US sales forces consist largely of independent commissioned sales agents who are managed by a mix of independent agents and the Groups own managers.
These agents are not permitted contractually to sell products that compete with Smith & Nephews.
In both businesses, products are shipped and invoiced directly to the ultimate customer.
The trauma and clinical therapies and advanced wound management businesses in the US operate sales forces of their own employees who market directly to the ultimate customer.
In the US, trauma and clinical therapy products are shipped and invoiced directly to the ultimate customer whereas advanced wound management products are shipped and invoicedto a numberof large wholesale distributors.
In the other direct markets of the UK, Belgium, Ireland, France, Germany, Italy, Australia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Canada and Japan the business units manage separate sales forces directly, except in Australia and New Zealand where independent sales agents are used.
The sales forces of the direct markets comprise employees and market directly to the ultimate customer.
The indirect markets unit comprises direct selling and marketing operations inAustria, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, China, Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, South Africa, Mexico and Puerto Rico.
In these markets reconstruction, trauma and clinical therapies and endoscopy frequently share sales resources.
The advanced wound management sales force is separate since it calls on different customers.
In all other countries Smith & Nephew sells to third party distributors whichmarket the Groups products locally.
In Continental Europe, the Group operates three centralised distribution facilities.
The reconstruction and trauma businesses operate a facility in Paris which acts as a central holding and consolidation point for Continental European inventory and inventory returns.
Product is shipped to Group companies who hold small amounts of inventory locally for immediate or urgent customer requirements.
Advanced wound management operates distribution centres at Nijmegen, Netherlands and Gothenburg, Sweden from where inventory is shipped directly to the ultimate customerinmost European markets.
SEASONALITY Smith & Nephews revenues are generally at their highest in quarter four of any year.
This is caused by the relatively high number of accidents and sports injuries which occur in the North American and European autumn and winter seasons which increase revenues of trauma and endoscopy products.
Reconstruction revenues are lower in quarter three due to fewer elective surgeries in the summer and higher in quarter four as elective surgeries increase.
11 Group Description MANUFACTURE AND SUPPLY Where management considers that the Group possesses a core competence its policy is to manufacture products internally whenever possible to ensure quality, regulatory and cost goals are met.
The Group invests in the expansion of its manufacturing facilities and equipment to meet these aims.
The Group may outsource other manufacturing for several reasons including requirements for specialised expertise, lower costs of production and capacity constraints.
Where products and services are outsourced, suppliers are determined based on a number of factors which include the complexity of the product, manufacturing technology, manufacturing capabilities, cost competitiveness and intellectual property.
Suppliers are selected based on their capability to provide products and services, their ability to establish and maintain a quality system and their financial stability.
Suppliers are monitored by on-site assessments and ongoing monitoring of delivered products.
Ongoing product assurance is maintainedby effective quality plans.
Each business unit purchases raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials from certain key suppliers.
These comprise principally metal forgings and stampings for orthopaedics, optical and electronic sub-components and finished goods for endoscopy, active ingredients and finished goods for advanced wound management and packaging materials for all businesses.
Management believes that whilst prices of principal raw materials can be volatile the effect is not material to the Group.
Finished goods purchased for resale are primarily SUPARTZ joint lubricant in the trauma and clinical therapies business, the BHR hip resurfacing product in the reconstruction business, screen displays, optical and electrical devices in the endoscopy business and enzyme debrider agents and ACTICOAT in the advanced wound management business.
PROPERTY, PLANTS AND EQUIPMENT TheGroups  as follows: Approximate area Square feet 000s Group Head Office inLondon, England................................................ 15 Group research facility inYork, England................................................ 83  and reconstruction, trauma and clinicaltherapies manufacturing facilities inMemphis, Tennessee................................................... 686 Reconstruction, trauma and clinicaltherapies distributionfacility inMemphis, Tennessee........ 102 Traumaand clinicaltherapies headquarters inMemphis, Tennessee........................ 84  inAndover, Massachusetts..................................... 112  inMansfield, Massachusetts............................. 98  distributionfacility inOklahomaCity, Oklahoma................ 150 Advanced WoundManagement headquarters and  inHull, England........ 546 Advanced WoundManagement  inGilberdyke, England................. 41 Advanced WoundManagement  inLargo, Florida....................... 188 The reconstruction headquarters and reconstruction, trauma and clinical therapies manufacturing facilities in Memphis and the advanced wound management facilities in Hull, Gilberdyke and Largo are freehold while all other principal locations are leasehold.
The Group has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in other countries throughout the world, but no other is significant individually to the Group.
Where required, the appropriate governmental authoritieshave approved the facilities.
During 2005 the Group announced the closure of its endoscopy manufacturing facility in Andover, Massachusetts.
This will be closed in the first half of 2007: its production has been relocated partly to other endoscopyfacilities and partly out-sourcedto third party suppliers.
12 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The business units each manage a portfolio of short and long-term product development projects designed to meet the future needs of their customers and to continue to provide growth opportunities for their businesses.
The Groups research and development is directed towards all four business segments.
Expenditure on research and development amounted to $120m in 2006 2005 $122m, 2004 $122m, representing approximately 4% of Grouprevenue 2005 5%, 2004 5%.
The Groups principal research facility is located in York, England.
The Groups research programme seeks to underpin the longer-term technology requirements for its businesses and to provide a flow of innovative products.
The Group continues to invest in future technology opportunities, particularly bio-resorbable materials, cell biology and non-invasive healing devices across the Group.
In-house research is supplemented by work performed by  other external research  UK and the US.
Product development is carried out at the Groups principal locations, notably in Memphis, Tennessee reconstruction and trauma and clinical therapies, Andover and Mansfield, Massachusetts endoscopy and Hull, England advanced woundmanagement.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Management believes that the Groups policy concerning intellectual property rights promotes innovation in its businesses.
Smith & Nephew has a policy of protecting, with patents, the results of the research and development carried out by the Group.
Patents have been obtained for a wide range of products, including those in the fields of orthopaedic, endoscopic and advanced wound management technologies.
Patent protection for Group products is sought routinely in the Groups principal markets.
Currently, the Groups patent portfolio stands at over 2,350 existing patents and patent applications.
Smith & Nephew also has a policy of protecting the Groups products in the markets in which they are sold by registering trademarks as soon as possible under local laws.
The Group vigorously protects its trademarks against infringement and currently is not aware of any significant infringement of its trademark registrations.
The present trademark portfolioof the Group consists of over 3,250 trademarks and design rights.
Smith & Nephews principal products are protected by intellectual property comprising patents, licences and know how, and it strives to provide a collection of intellectual property for each major product that reduces the risk associated with failure of any individual piece of intellectual property.
In addition, most pieces of intellectual property protect a relatively small proportion of the Groups annual revenue.
As a result, the Group tries to ensure that its overall business is not sensitive to the loss however caused of any single piece of intellectual property.
In addition to maintaining a policy of protecting its market position by the filing and enforcement of patents and trademarks, Smith & Nephew has a policy of opposing third party patents and trademark filings in those areas that mightconflictwiththe Groups business interests.
In the ordinary course of its business, the Group enters into a number of licensing arrangements with respect to its products.
None of these arrangements individually is considered material to the current operations and the financialresults of the Group.
REGULATION The international medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of time and expense that shouldbe allotted to suchdevelopment.
National regulatory authorities administer and enforce a complex series of laws and regulations that govern the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare and pharmaceutical products.
They also review data supporting the safety and efficacy of such products.
Of particular importance is the requirement in many countries that products be authorised or registered prior to manufacture, marketing or sale and that such authorisation or registration be subsequently maintained.
The major regulatory agencies for Smith & Nephews products are the FDA in the US, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the UK and the Ministry for Health Labour and Welfare in Japan.
Payment for many medical device products is governed by reimbursement tariff agencies ineach individualcountry.
13 Group Description The trend in recent years has been towards greater regulation and higher standards of technical appraisal, which generally entail lengthy inspections for compliance with appropriate standards, including regulations such as good manufacturing practices.
Smith & Nephew believes that these recent changes will not have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition and the results of operations.
All significant facilities within the Group are subject to regular internal audit for medical device regulatory compliance with national and Group standards and policies.
Smith & Nephew believes that the Groups operations currently comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations.
Although the Group continues to make capital expenditure for environmental compliance, it is not currently aware of any significant expenditure that would be required as a result of suchlaws and regulationsthat wouldhave a material adverse impact uponthe Groups financialcondition.
