Market value $9 billion Market growth 8% 6% 9% 3% 11% Global market Our company: overview 2006 Smith & Nephew 29% Zimmer DePuy Orthopaedic 20% Stryker Biomet Plus Reconstruction Others 22% What we do Orthopaedic Reconstruction develop and as instability and limitations on bending, while use of our sell innovative joint replacement systems for knees, hips proprietary OXINIUM technology makes it highly durable.
and shoulders, working closely with patients, surgeons and JOURNEY joins the successful LEGION Revision Knee System, healthcare providers to deliver more effective and more launched in December 2005.
Both these knee systems cost-ef cient clinical solutions.
The success of our joint offer greater durability through the use of OXINIUM reconstruction products over the last few years has been Oxidised Zirconium.
driven by the introduction of OXINIUM Oxidised Zirconium and the application of this unique material on a range of Where were going We expect the number of potential new hips and knees.
patients over 55 to double by 2020, while many more under-55s are willing and able to pay for operations to How we performed In 2006 we increased revenue by rectify injuries sustained from an active life, including sports 10% in a market that grew 8% globally.
Obesity is adding to and bringing forward demand grew 12% and hips grew 10%.
New products generated 16% for joint replacements.
New technologies are making of revenues and we ended 2006 with our strongest ever procedures more attractive, more affordable, and more portfolio of new products, including two knees the LEGION available to people worldwide.
Revision Knee System and the JOURNEY Bi-Cruciate Stabilised Knee System, and two new hips the EMPERION Meanwhile, healthcare systems need products and services Modular Hip System and the ANTHOLOGY at hip stem.
In able to meet patient demand and produce economic bene ts addition in mid-2006 we launched the BIRMINGHAM HIP and applied innovation has a vital role to play.
For example, Resurfacing System BHR in the US.
expectations around minimally invasive surgery are being rede ned, with a new emphasis placed on bone sparing and Winning US Food and Drug Administration FDA approval reducing tissue resection.
This has guided the development for the BHR System was a signi cant success as this was of the JOURNEY DEUCE Knee, due for launch in 2007, the first hip resurfacing product approved in the US.
The BHR which provides a new option for the early arthritic knee system provides an alternative to total hip replacement and using revolutionary resurfacing technology and minimally enables younger and more active patients to undergo hip invasive surgery.
replacement without limiting their future surgery options.
At year-end we had trained over 300 surgeons to use the In March 2007, we announced that we had agreed to BHR system, more than 1,000 procedures had been carried purchase Plus Orthopedics Holding AG Plus, a major out and demand from patients and surgeons was very strong.
This acquisition has Approved by the FDA in May, the BHR system generated US compelling strategic logic, improving Smith & Nephews revenues of $16m for the year, exceeding our expectations.
global orthopaedic reconstruction market position to No4 and doubling our European market share.
Plus brings a In August 2006 we launched the EMPERION Modular Hip highly complementary product range with strong synergy System in the US, Europe, Australia and Canada.
The system opportunities from better use of the combined marketing creates a closer match between the implant and the patients and sales infrastructure in Europe and Asia.
anatomy compared to existing systems.
A unique design allows for a greater range of motion and helps to reduce pain.
Longer term we are investigating biologics the use of We have created user-friendly instrumentation and clear biological healing processes within treatments which will colour coding to help surgeons reduce the time required for start to in uence product development soon, and has the the procedure.
potential to generate radical change by 2020.
Long and short-term, we see excellent prospects for superior revenue In the knee market, we launched the JOURNEY Bi-Cruciate growth in this business, along with the opportunity to help Stabilised Knee System, the first knee replacement many thousands of people enjoy a better quality of life.
system designed to move and feel like a normal knee.
This addresses problems in conventional systems such 7 2006 Summary For more information visit Financial Statement www.
com orthopaedics Learning from customers The Childrens Mercy Hospital, Each day Smith & Nephews Kansas City, US Previously the hospital was supplied exclusively by trauma experts help to educate one competitor, but the advantages of our PERI-LOC system have enabled and assist the surgeons using Smith & Nephews Josh Moore to open valuable accounts and develop close our latest technologies, such customer relationships with trauma surgeons, such as Dr Mark Sinclair.
as the PERI-LOC plates for the wrist, elbow, shoulder and clavicle launched in 2006.
The insight and understanding we gain through these close working relationships is invaluable and helps to guide the development of future 8 technologies and products.
