54 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Accounting policies Basis of preparation A further reconciliation has been included in note 26 to illustrate the The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Companies effect of adopting IAS 32 and IAS 39, as of 1 August 2005.
Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under International Basis of consolidation Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, as statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings, together adopted by the European Union in response to the IAS regulation with the Groups share of the results of its associates.
EC 1606 2002, under the historic cost convention modified to include revaluation of certain financial instruments, as described below.
For Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has the power to Smiths Group plc there are no differences between IFRS as adopted govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a for use in the European Union and full IFRS as published by the shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries International Accounting Standards Board.
are fully consolidated from the date on which this power is transferred to the Company.
They are fide-consolidated from the date The preparation of the accounts in conformity with generally accepted that control ceases.
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the but does not control, generally accompanied by a share of between accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are the reporting period.
These estimates and assumptions are based accounted for using the equity method.
on historical experience and various other factors that are believed Foreign currencies reasonable in the circumstances and constitute managements best The Companys presentational currency is sterling.
The results judgement at the date of the financial statements.
Actual results and financial position of all subsidiaries and associates that have a could differ from these estimates.
functional currency different from sterling are translated into sterling The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the accounting as follows: policies, as described below.
These accounts are the first accounts assets and liabilities are translated at the rate of exchange at the following the implementation of IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The date of that balance sheet: information for the year ended 31 July 2005, previously reported to shareholders under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates UK GAAP has been restated to conform to IFRS.
for the period: and IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate Standards, permits those companies adopting IFRS for the first component of equity.
time to take some exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation in the transition period.
The Company has adopted the following of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other key exemptions: currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are financial instruments the Company has elected to adopt IAS 32 taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, the Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 cumulative amount of such exchange differences is recognised in Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement with effect the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Financial instruments in the comparative Exchange differences arising in the accounts of individual companies period presented in the accounts ie the year ended 31 July 2005 are dealt with in their respective income statements.
Those arising are recorded on the UK GAAP basis applicable in that year: on trading transactions are taken to operating profit: those arising business combinations business combinations prior to the on borrowings are classified as finance income or cost.
transition date 1 August 2004 have not been restated to an Revenue IFRS basis.
This means consequently that the merger of Smiths Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods and services, Industries plc and TI Group plc in December 2000 continues to net of trade discounts and sales related taxes, and the value of work be accounted for as a merger: and undertaken during the year on long-term contracts.
Revenue is cumulative translation differences the Company has deemed recognised when the risks and rewards of the underlying sale have cumulative translation differences for foreign operations to be been transferred to the customer, which is usually where title passes.
zero at the date of transition.
Any gains and losses on subsequent Long-term funded contracts disposals of foreign operations will not therefore include translation Where the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably, revenue differences arising prior to the transition date.
and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of The reconciliations between the amounts previously reported under the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
The Group uses the UK GAAP and the amounts reported under IFRS for: percentage of completion method to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a given period.
The assessment of the stage profit for the year ended 31 July 2005: and of completion is dependent on the nature of the contract, but will shareholders equity at 1 August 2004 and 31 July 2005 except in generally be based on the extent to which the Company has obtained respect of IAS 32 and IAS 39 the right to consideration in exchange for performance under the contract.
If a contract is expected to be loss-making, a provision is are set out on pages 90 to 96. recognised for the entire loss.
55 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Accounting policies continued Employee benefits Intangible assets Pension obligations and post-retirement benefits Goodwill The Company has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Companys share of the identifiable net assets of the For defined benefit plans the liability for each scheme recognised in acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
The Goodwill arising from acquisitions of subsidiaries after 1 August 1998 defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent is included in intangible assets, is not amortised but is tested annually actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the Goodwill arising from acquisitions of subsidiaries before 1 August benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating 1998, which was set against reserves in the year of acquisition under to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and UK GAAP, has not been reinstated and is not included in determining losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial any subsequent profit or loss on disposal of the related entity, in assumptions are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, accordance with IFRS 1. outside of the income statement and are presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service costs are recognised Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually or whenever immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Any impairment conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Subsequent period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service reversals of impairment losses for goodwill are not recognised.
costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Research and development For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly Expenditure on research and development is charged to the profit and or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, loss account in the year in which it is incurred with the exception of: contractual or voluntary basis.
Contributions are expensed as incurred.
amounts recoverable from third parties: and The Group also has certain post-retirement healthcare schemes expenditure incurred in respect of the development of certain which are accounted for on a similar basis to the defined benefit plans.
major new product projects where the outcome of those projects Share-based compensation is assessed as being reasonably certain as regards viability and The Company operates a number of equity-settled and cash-settled technical feasibility.
Such expenditure is capitalised and amortised share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee over the expected useful life of the development, being the services received in exchange for the grant of shares or share estimated period of sale for each product, commencing in the options is recognised as an expense.
For equity-settled share-based year sales of the product are first made.
payments the total amount to be expensed over the vesting period Other intangible assets is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares or share The identifiable net assets acquired as a result of a business options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting combination may include intangible assets other than goodwill.
conditions for example profitability and sales growth targets.
For Any such intangible assets are amortised over their expected future cash-settled share-based payments a liability equal to the proportion lives unless they are regarded as having an indefinite life, in which of the services received is recognised at the current fair value case they are not amortised, but subjected to annual impairment determined at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is determined testing in a similar manner to goodwill.
by reference to option pricing models, principally Binomial models.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: The Company has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has Patents, licences and trademarks up to 20 years been applied only to grants of equity instruments after 7 November Technology 7 to 12 years 2002 that had not vested as at 1 January 2005.
Customer relationships up to 7 years Exceptional operating items Property plant and equipment Items which are material either because of their size or their nature, Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less and which are non-recurring, are presented within their relevant accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses.
consolidated income statement category, but highlighted separately Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is provided on other assets within the line exceptional operating items.
The separate reporting estimated to write off the depreciable amount of relevant assets by of exceptional items helps provide a better picture of the Companys equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives.
Items which may be included within the the rates used are: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2%, Short exceptional category include: leasehold property over the period of the lease, Plant, machinery, profits losses on disposal of businesses: etc.
10% to 20%, Motor vehicles 25%, Tools and other equipment 10% to 33%.
spend on the integration of significant acquisitions: and The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and significant goodwill or other asset impairments.
adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
56 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Accounting policies continued An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than the tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on No borrowing costs are capitalised as part of property, plant and investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the equipment.
timing of the reversal of the temporary differences is controlled by the Company and it is probable that the temporary difference Leases will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to Financial assets the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value ie original cost the lease.
plus transaction costs when the Group becomes party to contractual Inventories obligations.
They are no longer recognised when the right to receive Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
cash-flows from the assets has expired or been transferred, and the Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
The Company has transferred substantially all of the risks and rewards cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, of ownership.
direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their based on normal operating capacity.
They are classified as either loans and receivables: Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary held to maturity investments: available-for-sale financial assets: or course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
financial assets where changes in fair value are charged or credited Trade and other receivables to the income statement.
The classification depends on the purpose Trade and other receivables are stated at cost after deducting for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management adequate provision for doubtful debts.
determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates their designation at each reporting date.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand, highly Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are liquid interest-bearing securities with maturities of three months or subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest less, and bank overdrafts.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets where changes in fair value are charged or credited to the income Provisions statement are subsequently measured at fair value.
Realised and Provisions for warranties and product liability, disposal indemnities, unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value restructuring costs, vacant leasehold property and legal claims of the financial assets at fair value through profit and loss category are recognised when: the Company has a legal or constructive are included in the income statement in the period in which they obligation as a result of a past event: it is probable that an outflow arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale operating losses.
are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are Where there are a number of similar obligations, for example where included in the income statement as gains or losses from investment a warranty provision has been given, the likelihood that an outflow will securities.
be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of Financial assets are classified as current if they are expected to be obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood realised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Financial liabilities Borrowings made by the Company are initially recognised at fair value, Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sub-let under terms such net of related transaction costs.
These transaction costs and any that the rental income is insufficient to meet all outgoings, provision discount or premium on issue are subsequently amortised under the is made for the anticipated future shortfall up to termination of the effective yield method through the income statement as interest over lease, or the termination payment, if smaller.
the life of the loan, and added to the liability disclosed in the balance Taxation sheet.
Related accrued interest is included in the borrowings figure.
The charge for taxation is based on profits for the year and takes into Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company account taxation deferred because of temporary differences between has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
least one year after the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities method.
A deferred tax asset is recognised where it is probable that The Company has adopted IAS 39 from 1 August 2005.
Adjustments future taxable income will be sufficient to utilise the available relief.
have been made to the opening balance sheet at 1 August 2005 for Tax is charged or credited to the income statement except when it 57 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Accounting policies continued the adoption of IAS 39: these are shown separately in the Group and the host contracts are not carried at their fair value.
Unrealised statement of changes in equity.
Comparative figures for the year gains and losses on these embedded derivatives are recognised in ended 31 July 2005 have not been restated to reflect IAS 39 as the income statement.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value IAS 32 and IAS 39 were adopted by the Company on 1 August 2005. on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently Information relating to financial instruments for periods prior to remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising any 31 July 2005 remains as reported under UK GAAP: resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
receipts and payments on interest rate instruments are recognised on an accruals basis over the life of the instruments: and Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the foreign currency assets and liabilities covered by forward contracts income statement.
are translated at the contract rates of exchange.
Fair value hedge Dividends Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together are declared, and in the case of the final dividend, approved by with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
are attributable to the hedged risk.
Recent accounting developments Cash-flow hedge The following IFRS and IFRIC interpretation have been issued by The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are the IASB and are likely to affect future Annual report and accounts.
designated and qualify as cash-flow hedges are recognised in equity.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures was issued in August 2005 The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised and is required to be implemented by the Company from 1 August immediately in the income statement.
This new standard incorporates the disclosure requirements Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement of IAS 32, which it supersedes, and adds further quantitative and in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss for qualitative disclosures in relation to financial instruments, and is instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
However, not expected to have a material effect on the Groups disclosures.
when a forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a lease of a non-financial asset for example, inventory or a liability, the gains was issued in December 2004 and is required to be implemented and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity by the Company from 1 August 2006.
The interpretation requires reserves and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the arrangements which may have the nature, but not the legal form, of asset or liability.
a lease to be accounted for in accordance with IAS 17 Leases.
This When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge interpretation is not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative Parent Company gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is The accounts of the parent company, Smiths Group plc, have been recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
The Company accounts are in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer presented in separate financial statements on pages 100 to 108. expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
The principal subsidiaries of the parent company are listed in the above accounts.
Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted The ultimate parent company of the Group is Smiths Group plc, a for similarly to cash-flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging company incorporated in England, and listed on the London Stock instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised Exchange.
in equity: the gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates recognised immediately in the income statement.
An explanation of the significant judgements, key assumptions and Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income estimates used in producing this set of financial statements is set statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
out in the Operating and Financial Review on page 21.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts
