SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 2 3 notes to the ConsolIDAteD FInAnCIAl stAtements 1 generaL inFormation SOCO International plc is a company incorporated in Great Britain under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given inside the back cover.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 6 and in the Review of Operations and Financial Review on pages 8 to 19 and 24 to 27, respectively.
2 signiFicant accounting poLicies a Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost basis.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional currency of each of the Companys subsidiary undertakings.
The functional currency of the Company remains GB pounds although its financial statements are presented in US dollars.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resouces was adopted early from 2005.
At the date of approval of these financial statements the Group has not applied the following IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations which are in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements The adoption of these IFRSs and IFRICs in future periods are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
b Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of SOCO International plc and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to the balance sheet date.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passed.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method whereby the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and the consideration given are recognised in the Group accounts at their fair values as at the date of the acquisition.
c Investments Except as stated below, non-current investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
d Interests in joint ventures Jointly controlled entities are those for which the Group exercises joint control over the operating and financial policies.
These investments are dealt with by proportionate consolidation whereby the consolidated financial statements include the appropriate share of these companies assets, liabilities, income and expenses on a line by line basis.
Where a consolidated member of the Group participates in unincorporated joint ventures, that member accounts directly for its share of the jointly controlled assets, liabilities and related income and expenses which are then similarly included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
e Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and no depreciation is charged.
f Revenue Revenue represents the fair value of the Groups share of oil and gas sold during the year.
To the extent revenue arises from test production during an evaluation programme, an amount is charged from evaluation costs to cost of sales so as to reflect a zero net margin.
Investment revenue is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
g Tangible and intangible non-current assets oil and gas exploration, evaluation and development expenditure The Group uses the full cost method of accounting for exploration, evaluation and development expenditure, whereby all expenditures incurred in connection with the acquisition, exploration, evaluation and development of oil and gas assets, including directly attributable overheads, and interest payable and exchange differences directly related to financing development projects, are capitalised in separate geographical cost pools.
