notes to the ConsolIDAteD FInAnCIAl stAtements Continued 2 signiFicant accounting poLicies continued The results of entities denominated in currencies other than US dollars are translated at the average rate of exchange during the period and their balance sheets at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation at the closing rate of the opening net assets and results of entities denominated in currencies other than US dollars are dealt with through equity and transferred to the Groups retained earnings reserve.
Other foreign exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
o Pension costs The contributions payable in the year in respect of pension costs for defined contribution schemes and other post-retirement benefits are charged to the income statement.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
3 FinanciaL risk management The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing financial risks that may affect the Group.
In certain cases the Board delegates responsibility for such reviews and policy setting to the Audit Committee.
The main financial risks affecting the Group are discussed below: credit risk The Groups non-current financial asset that is subject to credit risk comprises a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss arising in respect of the Groups disposal of its Mongolia interest see Note 17.
The Groups and Companys other financial assets comprise investments, trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
The Group seeks to minimise credit risk by only maintaining balances with creditworthy third parties including major multi-national oil companies subject to contractual terms in respect of trade receivables.
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited as the Board only selects institutions with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies and endeavours to spread cash balances over more than one institution.
The level of deposits held by different institutions is regularly reviewed.
Foreign currency risk The Group primarily conducts and manages its business in US dollars.
Cash balances in Group subsidiaries are usually held in US dollars, but smaller amounts may be held in GB pounds or local currencies to meet immediate operating or administrative expenses, or to comply with local currency regulations.
From time to time the Group may take short term hedging positions to protect the value of any cash balances it holds in non-US dollar currencies.
Liquidity risk The Groups cash requirements and balances are projected for the Group as a whole and for each country in which operations and capital expenditures are conducted.
The Group meets these requirements through an appropriate mix of available funds, equity instruments and debt financing.
The Group seeks to minimise the impact that any debt financings have on its balance sheet by negotiating borrowings in matching currencies see Note 22.
The Group further mitigates liquidity risk by entering into arrangements with industry partners thereby sharing costs and risks, and by maintaining an insurance programme to minimise exposure to insurable losses.
interest rate risk The Group earns interest on its cash at bank and other short term highly liquid investments at a floating rate see Note 28.
Fixed rate interest is charged on the Groups convertible bonds see Note 22.
In addition the Group has also agreed a reservebased revolving credit facility which is subject to a floating rate, however as at the balance sheet date no drawdown against this facility had been made see Note 29. commodity price risk The Groups production is usually sold on spot or near term contracts, with prices fixed at the time of a transfer of custody or on the basis of a monthly average market price.
However the Board may give consideration in certain circumstances to the appropriateness of entering into fixed price, long term marketing contracts.
Although oil prices may fluctuate widely, it is the Groups policy not to hedge crude oil sales unless hedging is required to mitigate financial risks associated with debt financing of its assets or to meet its commitments.
Over time, during periods when the Group sees an opportunity to lock in attractive oil prices, it may engage in limited price hedging.
4 criticaL Judgements and accounting estimates a Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies described in Note 2, management has made judgements that may have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
These are discussed below: Basis of consolidation Note 2 b discusses the Groups basis of consolidation of its parent and subsidiary undertakings.
During 2006, the Group acquired OPECO, Inc. and its 100% owned subsidiary OPECO Vietnam Ltd whose only asset is a 2% working interest in Block 16-1 offshore Vietnam.
Management have reviewed the transaction and have determined that it was not a business combination as defined in IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
