SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 2 3 notes to the ConsolIDAteD FInAnCIAl stAtements 1 generaL inFormation SOCO International plc is a company incorporated in Great Britain under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given inside the back cover.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 6 and in the Review of Operations and Financial Review on pages 8 to 19 and 24 to 27, respectively.
2 signiFicant accounting poLicies a Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost basis.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional currency of each of the Companys subsidiary undertakings.
The functional currency of the Company remains GB pounds although its financial statements are presented in US dollars.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resouces was adopted early from 2005.
At the date of approval of these financial statements the Group has not applied the following IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations which are in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements The adoption of these IFRSs and IFRICs in future periods are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
b Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of SOCO International plc and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to the balance sheet date.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passed.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method whereby the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and the consideration given are recognised in the Group accounts at their fair values as at the date of the acquisition.
c Investments Except as stated below, non-current investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
d Interests in joint ventures Jointly controlled entities are those for which the Group exercises joint control over the operating and financial policies.
These investments are dealt with by proportionate consolidation whereby the consolidated financial statements include the appropriate share of these companies assets, liabilities, income and expenses on a line by line basis.
Where a consolidated member of the Group participates in unincorporated joint ventures, that member accounts directly for its share of the jointly controlled assets, liabilities and related income and expenses which are then similarly included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
e Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and no depreciation is charged.
f Revenue Revenue represents the fair value of the Groups share of oil and gas sold during the year.
To the extent revenue arises from test production during an evaluation programme, an amount is charged from evaluation costs to cost of sales so as to reflect a zero net margin.
Investment revenue is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
g Tangible and intangible non-current assets oil and gas exploration, evaluation and development expenditure The Group uses the full cost method of accounting for exploration, evaluation and development expenditure, whereby all expenditures incurred in connection with the acquisition, exploration, evaluation and development of oil and gas assets, including directly attributable overheads, and interest payable and exchange differences directly related to financing development projects, are capitalised in separate geographical cost pools.
notes to the ConsolIDAteD FInAnCIAl stAtements Continued 2 signiFicant accounting poLicies continued Cost pools are established on the basis of geographical area having regard to the operational and financial organisation of the Group.
Intangible acquisition, exploration and evaluation costs incurred in a geographical area where the Group has no established cost pool are initially capitalised as intangible non-current assets except where they fall outside the scope of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources whereby they are expensed as incurred subject to other guidance under IFRS.
Tangible non-current assets used in acquisition, exploration and evaluation are classified with tangible non-current assets as property, plant and equipment.
To the extent that such tangible assets are consumed in exploration and evaluation the amount reflecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of the intangible asset.
Upon successful conclusion of the appraisal programme and determination that commercial reserves exist, such costs are transferred to tangible non-current assets as property, plant and equipment.
Exploration and evaluation costs carried forward are assessed for impairment as described below.
Proceeds from the disposal of oil and gas assets are credited against the relevant cost centre.
Any overall surplus arising in a cost centre is credited to the income statement.
depreciation and depletion Depletion is provided on oil and gas assets in production using the unit of production method, based on proven and probable reserves, applied to the sum of the total capitalised exploration, evaluation and development costs, together with estimated future development costs at current prices.
Oil and gas assets which have a similar economic life are aggregated for depreciation purposes.
impairment of value Where there has been a change in economic conditions or in the expected use of an asset that indicates a possible impairment in an asset, management tests the recoverability of the net book value of the asset by comparison with the estimated discounted future net cash flows based on managements expectations of future oil prices and future costs.
Any identified impairment is charged to the income statement.
Intangible non-current assets are considered for impairment at least annually by reference to the indicators in IFRS 6.
Where there is an indication of impairment of an exploration and evaluation asset which is within a geographic pool where the Group has tangible oil and gas assets with commercial reserves, the exploration asset is assessed for impairment together with all other cash generating units and related tangible and intangible assets in that geographic pool and any balance remaining after impairment is amortised over the proven and probable reserves of the pool.
Where the exploration asset is in an area where the Group has no established pool, the exploration asset is tested for impairment separately and, where determined to be impaired, is written off.
other tangible non-current assets Other tangible non-current assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis at rates calculated to write off the cost of those assets, less residual value, over their expected useful lives.
decommissioning The decommissioning provision is calculated as the net present value of the Groups share of the expenditure which may be incurred at the end of the producing life of each field in the removal and decommissioning of the production, storage and transportation facilities currently in place.
The cost of recognising the decommissioning provision is included as part of the cost of the relevant property, plant and equipment and is thus charged to the income statement on a unit of production basis in accordance with the Groups policy for depletion and depreciation of tangible non-current assets.
Period charges for changes in the net present value of the decommissioning provision arising from discounting are included in finance costs.
h Changes in estimates The effects of changes in estimates on the unit of production calculations are accounted for prospectively over the estimated remaining proven and probable reserves of each pool.
i Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value.
Overlifts, which are recorded to accruals and deferred income, and underlifts, which are recorded to prepayments and accrued income, of crude oil are recorded at market value.
j Leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
k Share-based payments In accordance with the transitional provisions, the Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 to all grants after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
Under these requirements, equity-settled awards under share-based incentive plans are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a straight line basis over the performance period along with a corresponding increase in equity.
Fair value is measured using an option pricing model taking into consideration managements best estimate of the expected life of the option and the estimated number of shares that will eventually vest.
SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 4 2 signiFicant accounting poLicies continued l Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to recover the asset.
Deferred tax is not recognised where an asset or liability is acquired in a transaction which is not a business combination for an amount which differs from its tax value.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
m Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group does not currently utilise derivative financial instruments.
Other than the convertible bonds, there are no material financial assets and liabilities for which differences between carrying amounts and fair values are required to be disclosed.
Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss Where a financial instrument is classified as a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss it is initially recognised at fair value.
At each balance sheet date the fair value is reviewed and any gain or loss arising is recognised in the income statement.
Period credits for changes in the net present value of the financial asset arising from discounting are included in other gains and losses.
trade receivables Trade receivables are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
trade payables Trade payables are stated at their nominal value.
convertible bonds The net proceeds received from the issue of convertible bonds are split between a liability element and an equity component at the date of issue.
The fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity and is not remeasured.
The liability component is carried at amortised cost.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument.
The difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bonds.
equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
n Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than US dollars are recorded in US dollars at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than US dollars at the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date, or if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
Any resulting gains and losses are included in net profit or loss for the period.
