SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 6 4 criticaL Judgements and accounting estimates continued oil and gas assets Note 2 g describes the judgements necessary to implement the Groups policy with respect to the carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation assets.
Management considers these assets for impairment at least annually with reference to indicators in IFRS 6.
Note 14 discloses the carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation assets.
Further, Note 2 g describes the Groups policy regarding reclassification of intangible assets to tangible assets.
Management considers the appropriateness of asset classification at least annually.
Financial asset Note 2 m describes the accounting policy with respect to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The key judgements that are used in calculating the fair value of the Groups financial asset arising on the disposal of its Mongolia interest are described in Note 17 and are reviewed at least annually.
convertible bonds Note 2 m sets out the Groups accounting policy on convertible bonds.
Management assesses the fair value of the liability component at issue and reviews the appropriateness of the amortisation period at least annually.
Note 2 g describes the nature of the costs that the Group capitalises which includes applicable borrowing costs that are directly attributable to qualifying assets as defined in IAS 23 Borrowing Costs IAS 23.
Management has considered the definition of qualifying assets in IAS 23 and has determined that the only expenditure that currently meets the definition is that related to the Groups interest in Vietnam.
Consequently the interest associated with capital expenditure in Vietnam has been capitalised.
b Key sources of estimation uncertainty Note 2 also discusses the key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities.
These are discussed below: oil and gas reserves Note 2 g sets out the Groups accounting policy on depreciation and depletion.
Proven and probable reserves are estimated using standard recognised evaluation techniques.
The estimate is reviewed at least twice a year and is regularly reviewed by independent consultants.
Future development costs are estimated taking into account the level of development required to produce the reserves by reference to operators, where applicable, and internal engineers.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that impact the fair value of the Groups financial asset arising on the disposal of its Mongolia interest are described in Note 17 and are reviewed at least annually.
decommissioning provision The accounting policy for decommissioning is discussed in Note 2 g. The cost of decommissioning is estimated by reference to operators, where applicable, and internal engineers.
Further details are provided in Note 23.
5 totaL reVenue An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2006 2005 $000s $000s Continuing operations Oil sales 76,476 57,160 Investment revenue 9,292 2,042 85,768 59,202 Discontinued operations Oil sales 1,498 85,768 60,700
