SPECTRIS COV 15 3 07 22:05 Page 2 Shareholder information Financial calendar Annual General Meeting 16 May 2007 Record date for 2006 final dividend 1 June 2007 2006 Final dividend payable 22 June 2007 2007 Interim results 24 August 2007 Spectris at a glance 2007 Preliminary results February 2008 Company secretary Spectris is a leading supplier of precision instrumentation and R J Stephens, FCIS controls.
Our products help customers to improve product quality Registered office and performance, improve core manufacturing processes, reduce Spectris plc Station Road downtime and wastage and reduce time to market.
Egham Surrey Our businesses are leaders in their specialised markets and work TW20 9NP England with multinational customers in a broad spread of industries.
Tel: 44 0 1784 470470 We have a wide range of core technologies, many of which are Email: info@spectris.
Working closely with customers, we apply our expertise Company registered in England, No.
2025003 to help them solve the production challenges they face.
Auditors Our solutions and services are increasingly being applied to help KPMG Audit Plc our customers use energy and resources more efficiently.
This Bankers enables them to both improve their productivity and limit the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc impact of their products or processes on the environment.
Solicitors Ashurst For more information about our companies, our technologies and Brokers the markets we serve, see the Business review on page 3.
Hoare Govett Limited Merrill Lynch Corporate finance advisers Merrill Lynch Shareholder relations advisers Makinson Cowell Financial PR advisers Financial Dynamics Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Designed by Tor Pettersen & Partners Worthing Printed in England by the colourhouse Contents West Sussex Financial highlights 1 BN99 7DA Photography: Bullet train image on page 5 courtesy of Central Japan Railway Chairmans statement 2 Business review 3 Company: refinery image on page 9 courtesy of Lyondell Chemical Company: Corporate social The registrars provide a range of shareholder services on-line at paper image on page 10 courtesy of Stora Enso.
co. uk Board of directors 22 This report is printed on Revive Special Silk, which is produced Directors report 24 Share price information using at least 30% fide-inked post-consumer recovered fibre with Directors remuneration report 29 The companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock the remainder being wood fibre from well-managed forests Auditors report 36 Exchange.
The latest share price is available via the companys independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Consolidated income statement 37 website at www.
The paper is manufactured at a mill that Consolidated statement of has been awarded the ISO14001 certificate for environmental management recognised income and expense 37 Consolidated balance sheet 38 E-mail news service and the pulp is bleached using either totally chlorine free or elemental Consolidated cash flow statement 39 To receive details of press releases and other announcements chlorine free processes.
Notes to the consolidated accounts 40 as they are issued, register with the e-mail alert service on the Company balance sheet 71 companys website at www.
com Spectris plc February 2007 Notes to the companys accounts 72 Shareholder information 77 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2006 SPECTRIS COV 15 3 07 22:05 Page 1 Directory of companies Process Technology In-line Instrumentation Electronic Controls Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration Beta LaserMike HBM Transducers, sound level meters Non-contact, laser-based Load cells, transducers, strain Enhancing and analysers for sound and dimensional measuring and gauges, signal conditioning and vibration measurement.
flaw detection, ultrasonic data acquisition systems, test and productivity www.
com Annual report and accounts 2006 Fusion UV Systems Microscan Ultraviolet light processing Brel & Kjr Vibro High speed industrial bar code technology for curing Machine condition monitoring scanning and decoding photo-sensitive inks, coatings systems and maintenance services.
com Red Lion Controls Operator interfaces, signal BTG Group Malvern Instruments Sensors, instrumentation, coating conditioners, temperature Analytical systems for materials controllers, counters, rate and creping technology for the characterisation, from bulk pulp and paper industry.
powders to nanomaterials and www.
com Ircon Infrared non-contact temperature measuring and thermal imaging PANalytical instruments.
com for industrial and scientific applications.
com NDC Infrared Engineering Infrared, X-ray, isotopic and microwave sensors for on-line Particle Measuring Systems measurement of moisture, Micro-contamination monitoring composition, film thickness and systems for ultraclean environments coat weight.
com Servomex Gas analysers, gas analysis systems and transducers.
com Spectris plc Station Road, Egham Surrey TW20 9NP, England Tel: 44 0 1784 470470 Fax: 44 0 1784 470848 www.
