116 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 Glossary 3G Third Generation Future generation of mobile communications following first generation analogue and second digital.
4G Fourth Generation Future generation of mobile communications following 3G.
10 Gig E 10-gigabit Ethernet Networking technology enabling Ethernet data to be transported at 10 gigabits per second.
A-GPS Assisted GPS A system utilising GPS, assisted by the cellular signal to a mobile device, to more quickly pinpoint its location.
Access The connection between the local exchange and the home ofce, etc also referred to as the Access Network or the Local Loop.
ATM Asynchronous High-speed transmission technology used for transporting multiple simultaneous services voice, data Transfer Mode and multimedia applications with high quality of service levels.
Broadband Generic term for devices with a bandwidth greater than one megabit per second.
CDMA Code Division Technology allowing communications circuits to carry multiple conversations simultaneously, thus Multiple Access increasing its capacity.
DSL Digital Subscriber Line Technology that uses existing telephone copper lines to transport high-bandwidth data such as multimedia and video to service subscribers.
Ethernet A family of networking technologies developed for local area networks and now migrating to metro area networks.
Galileo The informal name for the European Global Navigation Satellite System, a system that will offer users anywhere in the world near pinpoint geographic positioning when it becomes fully operational.
Gig E Gigabit Ethernet Transmission protocol over a local area network that operates at a speed of 10 billion bits gigabit per second.
GPS Global Positioning System A system for determining location and height at any point on the earths surface.
A receiver uses minute differences in measured time signals from clocks on satellites to calculate these positions and altitudes.
GSM Global System A digital mobile telephony system that is widely used in Europe and other parts of the world.
for Mobile communication HSDPA High-speed Downlink An evolution of W-CDMA.
Packet Access IMS Internet protocol multimedia A standardised next-generation architecture for telecoms operators who want to provide mobile and xed subsystem multimedia services.
Internet telephony Generic term used to describe various approaches to running voice telephony over IP Internet Protocol.
IP Internet Protocol Data protocol used by many networking devices to facilitate and control the ow of data.
IPTV Internet Protocol television The delivery of programming by video stream encoded as a series of IP packets.
Leased line A long-distance dedicated channel sold to enterprises to carry their voice and data trafc.
Generally excludes suburban zones but can include university campuses.
Push to talk over Cellular A means of instantaneous communication that uses a button to switch a device from voice transmission mode to voice reception mode employed in a wireless network.
RF Radio Frequency A technology used for wireless broadcasting and or communications.
Routing The process of determining the path packets take when moving through a network.
Security Testing Testing the security of communications networks, equipment and applications.
Switching The process of forwarding data packets on within a network.
TDM Time Division Multiplexing a digital transmission method that combines signals from multiple sources on a common path increasing capacity.
Triple play Voice, video and data transmitted over a single transport medium.
VoIP voice over IP The technology that makes it possible to have a telephone conversation where the signal is carried over the Internet or a dedicated network in Internet Protocol IP packets, instead of over dedicated voice transmission lines.
WCDMA Wideband CDMA A global standard for mobile 3G.
Web Applications Applications accessed or delivered over a network.
WiMax Worldwide Interoperability A wireless transmission technology.
for Microwave Access xDSL Variants of DSL eg ADSL, ADSL2, ADSL2, VDSL.
