Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Shareholder Information Website k In return, we will plant a tree in one of the Investor Centre Shareholder Information Scottish and Southern Energy Woodlands.
The free online service, provided by the The companys website at registrar, allows shareholders to manage scottish-southern.
co. uk has a dedicated Registering for the Programme their share portfolios.
Shareholders can: Investor Centre section where shareholders k Register your email address by visiting our can find more information about the services website scottish-southern.
co. uk investor k View, update and calculate the market available to them, download forms, view and centre shareholder services you will need value of their shareholdings: update their shareholding online, manage your Shareholder Reference Number.
their portfolio and view share price and k Change address details and dividend k You will receive a confirmation email to dividend histories and trading graphs.
payment instructions online: and which you must respond to complete the process.
k View share price histories and trading Voting Electronically graphs for listed companies.
The website and the Guidance Notes on Benefits of eCommunication the reverse of the Proxy Form contain k You will receive email notification of the To Register information on how shareholders can availability of the interim results and have Go to scottish-southern.
co. uk, click on appoint their proxy electronically.
Your onaccess to all annual reports and company Investor Centre in the left hand menu and line proxy can be checked and updated up announcements.
follow the links to shareholder services.
until 12 noon on 25 July 2005. k You can lodge your proxy appointment Financial Calendar Shareholder Enquiries securely over the internet.
Annual General Meeting You can contact the registrar, k You will save paper, help reforest areas of 27 July 2006 Computershare Investor Services PLC the UK and the tree planted may help Computershare, by phoning the dedicated Ex dividend date reduce global warming gases.
shareholder helpline on 0845 143 4005, or 23 August 2006 writing to them at: The Pavilions, Bridgwater Keep us Informed Record date Road, Bristol BS13 8FB.
Where delivery of an email fails, the company 25 August 2006 is required to recommence sending you Computershare deal with the following: Final dividend payable paper copies of documents.
You can help to 22 September 2006 k Shareholding details avoid this by: Interim announcement k Transferring shares k Keeping the company informed of changes 15 November 2006 to your email address by visiting scottishk Dividends southern.
co. uk investor centre The Groups half-year results will be k Death of a shareholder shareholder service eCommunications published on the companys website at Programme and clicking on Click here k Lost share certificates scottish-southern.
co. uk on 15 November following the instructions under How to and in the Independent newspaper on k Merging duplicate share accounts register: and 16 November, and will detail the ex dividend k eCommunication k Regularly clearing out your in-box.
and record dates for the interim dividend payable in March 2007.
Paper copies of the Duplicate Share Accounts half-year results are not distributed to Shareholder Services If you receive more than one annual report individual shareholders, although Scottish and Southern Energy has a number mailing, this may be due to you having more shareholders who have elected for of services including: than one share account due to minor eCommunications do receive notification k Elect for eCommunications and have differences in your name and address of the half-year results on the a tree planted details.
You can merge duplicate share companys website.
accounts by completing a Duplicate Share k Telephone, Internet and postal share Account form.
Provisional dates dealings services with ShareGift option k Merge duplicate share accounts and If you choose to merge duplicate share Copy Reports have a tree planted accounts, the company will plant a native Copies of the following documents can be species tree in one of the Scottish and obtained, free of charge, from the Company k Dividend reinvestment plan Southern Energy Woodlands.
Secretary, Scottish and Southern Energy plc, Inveralmond House, 200 Dunkeld Road, You can find further information on these Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRP Perth PH1 3AQ or by accessing the services on the companys website at The DRP is a simple and cost effective way to companys website at .
co. uk investor build your shareholding in the company by southern.
co. uk: centre shareholder services.
using cash dividends to buy additional k Annual Report and Accounts 2006 shares.
To join the DRP either download a eCommunications Programme Dividend Reinvestment Plan Mandate form k Annual Review 2006 Millions of annual reports are posted to and Terms and Conditions from scottishshareholders each year, but now there is k Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 southern.
co. uk investor centre shareholder another way to receive this information which service reinvestment or, telephone the k Corporate Profile 2006 is better for the environment.
Shareholder Helpline on 0845 143 4005 to request a form.
k Elect to receive your AGM documentation via an email advising of its availability on the companys website.
You will need an internet enabled computer with Internet Explorer 5 or Netscape 4.
Designed and produced by Tayburn Corporate
