Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Notes on the Financial Statements 47 for the year ended 31 March 2006 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information Scottish and Southern Energy plc the Company is a company registered in Scotland.
The address of the registered office is given on page 101.
The Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors Statement at pages 9 to 25.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Companys financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and related notes.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 30 May 2006.
Basis of preparation and consolidation Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The financial statements of the Group and the Company are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as available for sale.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and its interpretations as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling.
These are the first annual financial statements of the Group and the Company prepared in accordance with adopted IFRS and the Group and the Company have applied a number of the exemptions contained within IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
An explanation of how the transition to adopted IFRS has affected the reported financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group and the Company is provided in notes 33 and 34.
The following exemptions under IFRS 1 have been adopted: k IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, have been adopted retrospectively as at 1 April 2005 but as permitted by the transition provisions of IFRS 1, the Group has not restated comparative information.
k Business Combinations which took place prior to 1 April 2004 have not been reassessed under IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
k The Group has elected, under IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, to measure a category of assets, Hydro Civil Assets, based on deemed cost.
k The application of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, has been restricted to equity instruments that were granted on or after 7 November 2002, and had not vested by 1 January 2005.
As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, the Group has disclosed additional information in respect of jointly controlled entities and associates, exceptional items and certain re-measurements on the face of the income statement to aid understanding of the Groups financial performance.
An item is treated as exceptional if it is considered unusual by nature and scale and of such significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood.
The preparation of financial statements conforming with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying accounting policies.
The Groups critical accounting estimates are summarised at pages 53 and 54.
Basis of consolidation of the Group The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results and net assets of its jointly controlled entities and associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group or the Company.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated in the financial statements of the Group from the date that control commences until the date control ceases, using the acquisition method of accounting.
In the Company, investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Pre-acquisition dividends are accounted for as a reduction in the cost of investment in the subsidiary.
Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies, namely where the Group has a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
Joint ventures Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
In the consolidated financial statements, investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting, as permitted by International Accounting Standard 31: Interests in Joint Ventures IAS 31.
Jointly controlled operations are businesses which use assets and liabilities that are separable from the rest of the Group.
In these arrangements, the Group accounts for its own share of property, plant and equipment, carries its own inventories, incurs its own expenses and liabilities and raises its own finance.
In the Company, investments in jointly controlled entities are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
