Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Notice of meeting 101 i the maximum number of ordinary shares NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the which would or might require relevant authorised to be purchased is 86,028,191 SEVENTEENTH ANNUAL GENERAL securities to be allotted after such expiry and representing 10% of the companys MEETING of Scottish and Southern Energy the Directors may allot relevant securities in issued ordinary share capital: plc will be held at the Bournemouth pursuance of such offer or agreement International Centre, Exeter Road, notwithstanding that the authority conferred ii the minimum price which may be paid Bournemouth, BH2 5BH on Thursday, 27 July hereby has expired.
for such shares is 50p per share which 2006 at 12 noon for the following purposes: amount shall be exclusive of expenses: Resolution 10 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the that subject to the passing of resolution 9 iii the maximum price which may be paid following resolutions, of which resolutions above the Directors be and they are hereby for an ordinary share shall not be more 1 to 9 and 12 will be proposed as ordinary empowered pursuant to section 95 of the than 5% above the average of the middle resolutions, and resolutions 10 and 11 will Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity market quotations for an ordinary share be proposed as special resolutions: securities as defined in section 94 of the as derived from the London Stock Act wholly for cash pursuant to the authority Exchange Daily Official List for the five Resolution 1 conferred by resolution 9 above as if section business days immediately preceding to receive the Financial Statements and the 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such the date on which the ordinary share Reports of the Directors and the auditors allotment, provided that this power shall be is purchased: for the financial year ended 31 March 2006. limited to the allotment of equity securities: iv unless previously renewed, varied or Resolution 2 a in connection with an offer of such revoked, the authority hereby conferred to approve the Remuneration Report of securities by way of rights to holders of shall expire on the conclusion of the the Board for the financial year ended ordinary shares in proportion as nearly companys next Annual General Meeting 31 March 2006. as may be practicable to their respective or 15 months from the date of passing holdings of such shares, but subject to of this resolution, if earlier: and Resolution 3 such exclusions or other arrangements to declare a final dividend for the year ended as the Directors may deem necessary or v the company may make a contract or 31 March 2006 of 32.7 pence per ordinary expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical contracts to purchase ordinary shares share.
problems under the laws of any territory, under the authority hereby conferred or the requirements of any regulatory prior to the expiry of such authority Resolution 4 body or stock exchange: and which will or may be executed wholly or to re-elect Gregor Alexander as a Director partly after the expiry of such authority of the company.
b otherwise than pursuant to suband may make a purchase of ordinary paragraph a above up to an aggregate shares in pursuance of any such contract Resolution 5 nominal amount of 21,507,047: or contracts.
to re-elect David Payne as a Director of the company.
and shall expire on the conclusion of the next Resolution 12 Annual General Meeting of the company that the Scottish and Southern Energy plc Resolution 6 after the passing of this resolution save that Performance Share Plan the PSP, the to re-elect Susan Rice as a Director of the company may before such expiry make principal terms of which are summarised in the company.
an offer or agreement which would or might Note 7 to this Notice of Meeting, be approved require equity securities to be allotted after and the Directors be authorised to do all acts Resolution 7 such expiry and the Directors may allot and things as they may consider necessary that KPMG Audit Plc be appointed auditor equity securities in pursuance of any such or expedient to give effect to the PSP.
of the company to hold office from the offer or agreement notwithstanding that the conclusion of this meeting until the power conferred hereby has expired.
By order of the Board conclusion of the next general meeting at Vincent Donnelly which Financial Statements are laid before This power applies in relation to a sale of Company Secretary the company.
shares which is an allotment of equity 30 May 2006 securities by virtue of section 94 3A of the Resolution 8 Act as if in the first paragraph of this Registered Office: that the Directors be authorised to resolution the words subject to the passing Inveralmond House determine the auditors remuneration.
of resolution 9 above and pursuant to the 200 Dunkeld Road authority conferred by resolution 9 above Perth Resolution 9 were omitted.
PH1 3AQ that the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for Resolution 11 the purposes of section 80 of the Companies that, pursuant to Article 12 of the Articles of Act 1985 to exercise the powers of the Association, the company be and is generally company to allot relevant securities as and unconditionally authorised for the defined within that section up to an purposes of section 166 of the Companies aggregate nominal amount of 143,380,318, Act 1985 the Act to make one or more provided that this authority shall expire on market purchases within the meaning of the conclusion of the next Annual General section 163 3 of the Act on the London Meeting of the company after the passing of Stock Exchange of ordinary shares of this resolution unless previously renewed, 50p each in the capital of the company varied or revoked by the company in general provided that: meeting save that the company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Notice of meeting Continued 102 ordinary shares, representing 0.6% of the Notes of the Notice of Meeting.
This authority issued share capital: if the authority given 1.
Only holders of ordinary shares on the was last renewed at the Annual General by resolution 11 were to be fully used, register at 11.00pm on 25 July 2006 may Meeting in 2005.
The authority, if these options would represent 0.7% of attend and vote in respect of the number renewed, will terminate at the conclusion the share capital in issue on that date.
of shares registered in their name at that of the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
A shareholder of the company is Directors have no present intention of Any shares purchased in this way will entitled to appoint one or more proxies to issuing any shares other than pursuant to either be cancelled and the number of attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him existing rights under employee share shares in issue reduced accordingly or or her.
A proxy need not be a shareholder.
Any allotment of shares would held in treasury under the Companies A Proxy Form is enclosed with this be offered to existing shareholders first, Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Notice.
The Proxy Form, duly completed subject to the limited pre-emption Shares Regulations 2003.
Shares held and signed, together with any power of disapplication contained in resolution 10. in treasury may subsequently be sold for attorney or other authority under which The authority is in line with current cash within the limit of the shareholder it is signed or a notarially certified copy institutional shareholder guidelines.
pre-emption disapplication contained in thereof, must reach the registrar of the resolution 10, cancelled, or used for the company, Computershare Investor 5.
Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Special Resolution 10 purposes of employee share schemes.
Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Resolution 10 proposes as a special Holding its own shares as treasury Road, Bristol BS13 8FB, not later than resolution to renew the Directors shares would give the company the ability 12 noon on 25 July 2006. authority, under section 89 of the to re-issue them quickly and cost Companies Act 1985, to allot shares for effectively, and would provide the Alternatively, you can submit your proxy cash in certain circumstances otherwise company with additional flexibility in the vote electronically.
Further information than pro rata to all the shareholders.
management of its capital base.
The can be found in the Guidance Notes on This authority, which was last renewed Directors believe that it is desirable for the reverse of the Proxy Form.
at the Annual General Meeting in 2005, the company to have this flexibility.
No gives the company greater flexibility in dividends will be paid on shares whilst 2.
The following documents will be available its financing arrangements.
held in treasury and no voting rights will for inspection at the registered office of the be exercisable in respect of treasury company during normal business hours This resolution deals with the allotment shares.
Treasury shares transferred for on any weekday public holidays excepted of shares for cash under a rights issue, the purposes of the companys employee from the date of this Notice until the date power to make adjustments to deal with share schemes will count towards the of the Meeting and thereafter at the place overseas shareholders, fractions of limits in those schemes on the number of the Meeting from 11.45am until the shares and other such matters.
It also of new shares which may be issued.
conclusion of the Meeting: permits the Directors to make additional issues of shares for cash up to During the year no ordinary shares were i the register of Directors share interests 21,507,047 nominal share capital, purchased by the company.
The company kept pursuant to section 325 of the representing five per cent of the issued does not currently hold any treasury Companies Act 1985: share capital.
This limit is in line with shares.
current institutional shareholder ii the rules of the proposed Scottish guidelines.
There is no present intention 7.
Summary of the Scottish and Southern and Southern Energy plc Performance of exercising this authority.
Energy plc Performance Share Plan Share Plan.
PSP Resolution 12 For the purposes of this resolution, Additionally, item ii above will also be allotment of shares includes the sale Eligibility and Grant Procedure available for inspection at the offices of of treasury shares see the note to Executive Directors and other senior Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, 65 Fleet resolution 11 for further details.
executives will be invited to participate Street, London EC4Y 1HS during normal in the PSP at the discretion of the business hours on any weekday public 6.
Purchase of Own Shares and Treasury Remuneration Committee the holidays excepted from the date of this Shares Special Resolution 11 Committee.
Awards can be granted notice until the date of the meeting.
In certain circumstances it may be within six weeks of any of the following: advantageous for the company to the Annual General Meeting approving 3.
The Audited Accounts are set out on purchase its own ordinary shares, and the PSP: the announcement of the pages 43 to 100: the Remuneration resolution 11 will, if approved, renew the companys results for any period: or the Report is set out on pages 36 to 41: companys authority from shareholders occurrence of exceptional circumstances details of the total dividend for this year to make such purchases until the Annual justifying the grant of awards.
No are set out in the Directors Report on General Meeting in 2007 or 27 October payment is required for the grant of page 28: Directors biographical details 2007 whichever is the earlier.
No invitations to participate in are set out on pages 34 and 35: will only be made if the Directors believe the PSP may be made more than ten information on the Directors seeking that to do so would result in an increase years following the date on which it is re-election is set out on page 28: and in the Groups earnings per share and approved by shareholders.
explanations of resolutions 9 to 12 are would be in the best interests of set out below.
Value of Awards Award levels will be determined each 4.
Authority to Allot Shares Resolution 9 The resolution which will be proposed year by the Committee.
The Committees This resolution renews the Directors as a special resolution specifies the intention is that annual awards will authority, under section 80 of the maximum number of shares which may normally be made with a value of 100% Companies Act 1985, to allot shares.
be acquired 10% of the companys issued of base salary.
The authority to allot is limited to shares share capital and minimum and with a nominal value of 143,380,318 maximum prices at which they may be representing one-third of the issued bought.
There are options outstanding share capital as at 30 May 2006, the at the date of this report over 5.2 million latest practicable date before the printing Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 103 Any internal reorganisation to create a Performance Measurement retail price index.
No part of this element new holding company will not result in The vesting of awards is dependent on will vest for compound annual growth in the accelerated vesting of awards: they the companys performance over a three EPS below 3% above the UK retail price will be replaced by awards over shares year period, by reference to two separate index.
The Committee considers that in the new holding company unless the performance measures.
There will be no these initial threshold and maximum Committee determines otherwise.
retesting of either performance measure.
vesting levels are suitably demanding targets having regard to the regulatory Adjustment of Awards The vesting of one-half of the award regime in which the company operates Upon the vesting of an award, a will depend on the companys total and on the basis of independent advice participant will receive additional shares shareholder return TSR relative to the and have been set in the light of representing the gross value of dividends other companies included in the FTSE consensus expectations and the that would have been paid on those 100 index at the beginning of the companys own forecasts.
shares during the performance period performance period.
TSR is a means of and reinvested.
The expected value of comparing companies long-term share The Committee may set different awards made on this basis will take into price performance, on the basis that vesting levels in future years for account a reasonable expectation of the dividends and distributions in respect the EPS and TSR elements, and may value of dividends over the vesting period.
of a companys shares are treated as vary the EPS definition and the TSR comparator group in order to ensure reinvested at the date of payment.
Each that all targets remain stretching.
If there is a variation in the share capital performance period will coincide with of the company including without the financial years of the company Cessation of Employment limitation a capitalisation issue, rights commencing with the financial year in Awards to executives who leave at any or bonus issue or sub-division or which the award is granted.
For these time prior to vesting will lapse unless consolidation of share capital, or a purposes TSR performance of all relevant they leave by reason of death, disability, reduction of capital, or in the event of companies will be averaged over the 20 or in other circumstances at the discretion a demerger or payment of a special dealing days immediately before the start of the Remuneration Committee.
dividend, the shares under award may and end of the performance period.
be adjusted to reflect that variation.
Awards for good leavers will vest at the Awards based on TSR will only vest if the normal vesting date to the extent that Rights Attaching to Shares Committee is also satisfied with the the TSR and EPS performance conditions A participant will not have any voting or underlying financial performance of the are met, but will normally be pro-rated dividend rights prior to the vesting of the company over the performance period.
on the basis of actual service within the award.
All shares allotted under the PSP three-year EPS performance period.
will carry the same rights as any other The vesting of the remaining one-half of Exceptionally for example, if a participant issued ordinary shares in the company the award will depend on the companys is terminally ill, the Committee may and application will be made for the earnings per share EPS, measured in release shares early having regard to shares to be listed by the UK Listing terms of the compound annual growth performance achieved to the date of Authority and traded on the London in EPS achieved over the performance leaving.
In appropriate cases, the Stock Exchange.
period referred to above adjusted in Committee may moderate the application line with the UK retail price index by of the pro rata reduction if it considers Benefits received under the PSP are not comparison with the EPS of the financial that the participants contribution to pensionable and may not be assigned or year immediately preceding the the business would not be properly transferred except on a participants death.
EPS will be recognised if the award was scaled down calculated before exceptional items, net in the manner described above.
Alterations to the PSP finance income from pension assets IAS In addition to the Committees powers 19, the impact of IAS 32 apart from the Change of Control to vary the EPS and TSR performance accretion of convertible debt under IAS In the event of a change of control of the measures described above, it will have 32 and IAS 39 and deferred tax.
company, performance will be measured authority to amend the rules of the PSP, to the date of change of control and provided that no amendment to the Vesting Schedule awards will vest to the extent that the advantage of participants or eligible The TSR element of the award will vest EPS and TSR targets are met by that employees may be made to provisions in full if the companys TSR is at or above date.
The Committee will have discretion, relating to the key features of the PSP the 75th percentile: 30% of this element in relation to the EPS element, to adjust without the prior approval of shareholders will vest if the companys TSR is at the the vesting level if it considers that the in general meeting unless the amendment median: there will be straight line properformance conditions would have been is minor and made to benefit the rata vesting if the companys TSR falls met to a greater or lesser extent at the administration of the PSP, to take account between the median and the 75th end of the full three-year performance of a change in legislation or to obtain or percentile.
No part of this element period.
The Committee will in normal maintain favourable tax, exchange control will vest if the companys TSR is below circumstances scale down the vesting or regulatory treatment.
Key features are: the median.
level of both elements having regard to who can be a participant, the limits on the time that has elapsed between the the number of shares which can be issued For awards made in 2006, the EPS grant of the award and the date of change under the PSP, the basis for determining element of the award will vest in full of control, but will retain a limited a participants entitlement to shares, and if the companys compound annual discretion to modify pro-rating if it the terms on which they can be acquired, growth in EPS is equivalent to 8% per considers that the contribution of the and the provisions relating to adjustments annum above the UK retail price index: management team to the creation of in the event of a variation in the companys 30% of this element will vest if compound shareholder value during the share capital.
annual growth in EPS is equivalent to 3% performance period would not otherwise per annum above the UK retail price be properly recognised.
The Committee index: this element will vest on a straight will not use its discretion in such a way line basis for compound annual growth in that unjustifiably large awards result.
EPS between 3% and 8% above the UK Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Notice of meeting Continued 104 Limits on the Issue of Shares The PSP will be subject to the limit that, in any ten-year period, not more than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company from time to time may be issued or issuable under all the companys share plans.
In addition, not more than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company from time to time may be issued or issuable under the companys discretionary share plans in any ten-year period.
The Committee will adopt appropriate policies to ensure that sufficient shares are available for these plans throughout the ten-year period, and may purchase shares in the market if desirable.
The Committee may use treasury shares for the purposes of the PSP and transfers of such shares will count towards this percentage limit.
Where awards are granted over existing shares, these will be held in a discretionary employee benefit trust.
The trust will also have the facility to subscribe for new shares within the limits referred above.
The trust will not in any event hold more than 5% of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
