Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Glossary of Terms Bar Distribution price controls Gigawatt hour GWh Atmosphere pressure approximately.
The regulatory mechanism set by Ofgem 1,000 megawatt hours.
which determines the level of capital Barg expenditure the electricity and gas High Pressure HP Measurement of pressure relative distribution businesses are allowed to Gas distributed at pressures between to atmospheric pressure.
invest in their networks, and the revenue 7 barg and 70 barg.
BETTA High Voltage HV The British Electricity Trading and energywatch Electricity distributed at voltages Transmission Arrangements The independent gas and electricity between 1,000 volts and under 22,000 arrangements relating to the trading watchdog set up in November 2000 volts.
and transmission of electricity in through the Utility Act to protect and Great Britain.
promote the interests of all gas and Hydro Benefit electricity consumers.
Hydro Benefit was an arrangement which Biomass ensured that the high cost of distribution Biomass is anything derived from Energy Efficiency Commitment EEC and transmission in the Scottish Hydro plant or animal matter and includes Domestic energy suppliers are given area was subsidised by hydro electric agricultural and forestry wastes or energy saving targets related to the size generation in the north residues and energy crops.
It can be of their customer base.
used for fuel directly by burning or Commitment funding provides for by extraction of combustible oils.
energy efficiency improvements for Innovation Funding Incentive IFI and householders.
Half of all energy savings Information and Incentive Project IIP Careline are to be achieved in properties occupied Schemes introduced by Ofgem to A dedicated helpline staffed by advisers by members of a priority group encourage electricity distribution who give elderly customers, and those households in receipt of means-tested businesses to deliver benefits to with disabilities extra help with their or disability-related benefits.
customers by identifying innovative energy bills, advice on saving energy ideas to improve efficiency and customer and other matters to do with gas and Energy Systems service.
The term used to cover the transmission and distribution of electricity and gas.
Intermediate Pressure IP Charitable donations Gas distributed at pressures between Cash contributions made to UK-based European Union Energy Trading Scheme 2 barg and 7 barg.
charities and community organisations EU ETS excluding gifts in kind and community A mechanism whereby the amount of Integrated Pollution Control IPC and funds established for specific generation emissions from installations such as Integrated Pollution Prevention and projects.
Savings on Control IPPC this cap can be sold, or excess emissions Systems to control pollution from Carbon dioxide CO covered by purchasing surplus allowances industry, enforced by the Environment 2 One of the so-called greenhouse gasses from other installations.
Agency and Scottish Environmental believed to contribute to global warming.
Ethernet Contracting A frame-based technology for Local JD Power SSEs business that offers mechanical Area Letworks LANs and Wide Area JD Power and Associates, a business and electrical engineering services.
Networks WANs connecting computer unit of McGraw-Hill, is a global systems to form a network.
marketing information firm that Customer Minutes Lost CMLs conducts independent surveys of A measurement of the reliability of the Extra High Voltage EHV customer satisfaction, product quality electricity transmission and distribution Electricity distributed at voltages and buyer behaviour.
networks calculated as the total of the of 22,000 volts and above.
number of minutes of each power Kilovolt kV interruption times the number of Flue Gas Desulphurisation FGD 1,000 volts.
customers affected by each incident, In FGD processes, waste gases are divided by the total number of customers.
treated with a chemical absorbent such Kilowatt kW as limestone to remove sulphur dioxide.
Dark fibre The resulting slurry is then oxidised to Optical fibre which has yet to be used, ie calcium sulphate gypsum which can Kilowatt hour kWh the fibre is not yet connected to any device.
then be used in the building trade.
Distribution network Gas storage The network of high and low voltage SSEs gas storage facilities consist overhead lines and underground cables of underground caverns created by distributing electricity to end users dissolving large subterrannean salt customers, owned by the Distribution deposits.
Gas is pumped into the caverns Network Operators DNOs.
under pressure and released into the gas network as required.
Distribution Network Operators DNOs There are 14 Distribution Network Gigawatt GW Operators that operate across Great 1,000 megawatts 1,000,000,000 watts.
Britain, each owning a regional distribution network.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Glossary of Terms Continued Large Combustion Plant Directive Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Sulphur dioxide SO 2 LCPD Ofgem Toxic gasses produced by the combustion The Large Combustion Plant Directive Ofgem is the regulator for Britains gas of carbon-based primary fuels by applies to combustion plants with a and electricity industries.
Its role is to transport and in power stations see thermal output of greater than 50 MW.
promote choice and value for all also NOx.
It aims to reduce acidification, ground customers.
level ozone, and particles throughout Substation Europe by controlling emissions of PRiDE Part of an electricity distribution or sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and A joint venture between Interserve transmission system, where electricity dust particulate matter from large Defence Limited IDL and Southern is redirected and transformed from one combustion plants such as power Electric Contracting SEC, responsible, voltage to another.
stations, petroleum refineries, as the Prime Contractor, for the steelworks, and other industrial provision of estate management and Terawatt hour TWh processes running on solid, liquid, construction services at over 100 MOD 1,000 gigawatt hours.
sites throughout the south east England.
Thermal efficiency Liquefied Natural Gas LNG Private Finance Initiative PFI A measurement of the effectiveness of Natural gas is cooled and stored or A system for providing capital assets for converting primary fuels to electrical transported under pressure as liquefied the provision of public services.
Typically, energy in power stations.
natural gas in specialist tanks or vessels.
the private sector designs, builds and maintains infrastructure and other Transmission price controls Low Pressure LP capital assets and then operates those The regulatory mechanism set by Ofgem Gas distributed at pressures up assets and contracts for a fee to the which determines the level of capital to 75mbarg.
expenditure the electricity transmission business is allowed to invest in its Low Voltage LV Regulated Asset Value RAV network, and the revenue recoverable Electricity distributed at under 1,000 The value placed by Ofgem on the assets from customers.
businesses transmission, distribution and metering Transmission system Megawatt MW which is used as the basis for calculating The system on which electricity is 1,000 kilowatts, 1,000,000 watts.
the income that is recoverable from transmitted at voltages of 132,000 volts customers.
and above in Scotland and 275,000 volts Megawatt hour MWh and above in England and Wales.
Renewables Obligation Certificates ROCs Unit of electricity Merit order A system which encourages the One unit of electricity equals one The order of merit applied to generation development of renewable energy kilowatt hour kWh i. e. 1,000 watts plant which is determined by a projects.
An obligation is placed on of electricity used continuously for combination of fuel cost and flexibility.
suppliers to buy an increasing proportion one hour.
Base load comprises nuclear, gas and of energy from renewable sources.
If the coal generation plant which is designed suppliers do not meet this obligation, to operate continuously: mid-merit is they are fined and the proceeds coal, gas and hydro which is designed distributed to the operators of renewable to operate for long periods: and peaking generation.
plant comprises gas, oil and specifically designed hydro that can be called on at Run off short notice.
Water draining from hills within catchment areas into reservoirs Micro generation supplying hydro electric schemes.
Small-scale generation supplying energy to a few or single premises, usually with Scotia Gas Networks plc the capability to export to the Grid surplus The holding company, in which SSE generation.
Technologies include roofhas a 50% equity stake, for the two gas top wind turbines and photovoltaic cells.
distribution networks acquired from National Grid Transco in 2005, Southern Millibarg mbarg Gas Networks and Scotland Gas 1,000th of a barg approximately 1,000th Networks.
Synchronous Digital Hierarchy Nitrogen oxides NO leased lines SDH x Toxic gasses produced by the A generic networking technology used combustion of carbon-based primary to transport both voice and data traffic.
fuels by transport and in power stations see also SO.
Solar photovoltaic cell 2 A device that converts light into electrical energy.
Annual Report 2006 Annual Review 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 Corporate Profile 2006 During 2005 06 Scottish and Southern Scottish and Southern Energy now BiTCs Corporate Responsibility Index Scottish and Southern Energy is Energy continued its focus on has over 6.7 million customers, a net provides an authoritative benchmark one of the largest energy companies delivering a strong operational gain of 600,000 in 2005 06.
It has for companies to evaluate their in the UK.
It is involved in the performance and on securing value the largest, non-nuclear generation corporate responsibility management transmission, distribution and supply from its investment in new assets.
fleet with a total capacity of over practice and performance in a range of electricity: the storage, distribution This has enabled the company to 10,000MW.
SSE manages one of environmental and social impact and supply of gas: energy trading: deliver another set of very sound electricity transmission system, areas material to their business.
electrical and utility contracting: financial results and add to its welltwo electricity distribution systems In 2005, SSEs score was 97.5%, energy services: and telecoms.
established track record of sustained and two gas distribution systems, compared with 93.0% in the previous On 31 March 2006 it was the 35th real growth in the dividend.
This placed SSE joint 7th in the largest company in the FTSE 100.
Index, compared with joint 14th in the previous year, and made it the joint top-ranked company in its sector.
For further information about This report was printed on Revive Silk Scottish and Southern Energy which contains a minimum of 75% please contact: fide-inked post consumer waste and conforms to government Scottish and Southern Energy plc T: 01738 456000 requirements for recycled paper.
Both Corporate Communications E: info@scottish-southern.
co. uk Inveralmond House W: scottish-southern.
co. uk the paper mill and printing involved in 200 Dunkeld Road this production are environmentally Registered in Scotland No.
