Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Notes on the Financial Statements 47 for the year ended 31 March 2006 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information Scottish and Southern Energy plc the Company is a company registered in Scotland.
The address of the registered office is given on page 101.
The Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors Statement at pages 9 to 25.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Companys financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and related notes.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 30 May 2006.
Basis of preparation and consolidation Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The financial statements of the Group and the Company are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as available for sale.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and its interpretations as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling.
These are the first annual financial statements of the Group and the Company prepared in accordance with adopted IFRS and the Group and the Company have applied a number of the exemptions contained within IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
An explanation of how the transition to adopted IFRS has affected the reported financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group and the Company is provided in notes 33 and 34.
The following exemptions under IFRS 1 have been adopted: k IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, have been adopted retrospectively as at 1 April 2005 but as permitted by the transition provisions of IFRS 1, the Group has not restated comparative information.
k Business Combinations which took place prior to 1 April 2004 have not been reassessed under IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
k The Group has elected, under IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, to measure a category of assets, Hydro Civil Assets, based on deemed cost.
k The application of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, has been restricted to equity instruments that were granted on or after 7 November 2002, and had not vested by 1 January 2005.
As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, the Group has disclosed additional information in respect of jointly controlled entities and associates, exceptional items and certain re-measurements on the face of the income statement to aid understanding of the Groups financial performance.
An item is treated as exceptional if it is considered unusual by nature and scale and of such significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood.
The preparation of financial statements conforming with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying accounting policies.
The Groups critical accounting estimates are summarised at pages 53 and 54.
Basis of consolidation of the Group The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results and net assets of its jointly controlled entities and associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group or the Company.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated in the financial statements of the Group from the date that control commences until the date control ceases, using the acquisition method of accounting.
In the Company, investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Pre-acquisition dividends are accounted for as a reduction in the cost of investment in the subsidiary.
Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies, namely where the Group has a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
Joint ventures Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
In the consolidated financial statements, investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting, as permitted by International Accounting Standard 31: Interests in Joint Ventures IAS 31.
Jointly controlled operations are businesses which use assets and liabilities that are separable from the rest of the Group.
In these arrangements, the Group accounts for its own share of property, plant and equipment, carries its own inventories, incurs its own expenses and liabilities and raises its own finance.
In the Company, investments in jointly controlled entities are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Notes on the Financial Statements Continued 48 for the year ended 31 March 2006 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued Basis of preparation and consolidation Continued Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains.
Accounting policies Revenue recognition: energy, services and goods relating to the sale of energy Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue comprises sales of energy, use of system income, gas storage facility revenue, the value of services and facilities provided and goods sold during the year in the normal course of business.
Revenue on energy sales, including monies received from the electricity and gas balancing markets in the UK, includes an estimate of the value of electricity and gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
Revenue from use of energy systems includes an estimation of the volume of electricity distributed or transmitted by customers based on independently procured electricity settlement systems data.
Annual revenue is dependent on being approved by the industry regulator, Ofgem.
Certain circumstances may result in the regulatory allowed income being overor under-recovered in the financial year.
Any overor underrecovery is included in the calculation of the following years regulatory use of system revenue.
No adjustment is made for overor underrecoveries in the year that they arise.
Where the Group has an ongoing obligation to provide services, revenues are recognised as the service is performed and amounts billed in advance are treated as deferred income and excluded from current turnover.
Gas storage facilities revenues are recognised evenly over the contract period, whilst revenues for the injection and withdrawal of gas are recognised at the point of gas flowing in or out of the storage facilities.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed, along with the risks and rewards of ownership.
Government grants and customer contributions A government grant is recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income when there is reasonable assurance that it will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to it.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised as revenue in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same years in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset to match the depreciation charge.
Customer contributions and capital grants have been recorded as deferred income and released to the income statement over the estimated life of the related assets.
Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Finance lease payments Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each year during the lease term in order to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Net finance costs Finance income comprises interest receivables on funds invested and returns on pension scheme assets that are recognised in the income statement.
Finance expenses comprise interest payable on borrowings, the release of discount on provisions, interest on pension scheme liabilities, accretion of the debt component of the convertible less capitalised interest.
Interest income and charges are recognised in the income statement as they accrue, on an effective rate basis.
The issue costs and interest payable on bonds, and all other interest payable and receivable is reflected in the income statement on that basis.
Foreign exchange Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
At the year end, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising on the restatement of such balances is taken to the income statement.
Taxation Taxation on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement except if it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 49 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued Accounting policies Continued Taxation Continued Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities other than in business combinations that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised on the date the entitys right to receive payments is established.
Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Interest on the funding attributable to major capital projects is capitalised during the years of construction and depreciated as part of the total cost over the useful life of the asset.
All items of property, plant and equipment are accounted for under the cost model within IAS 16.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment, and depreciated in the appropriate manner.
It is the Group policy to capitalise replacement expenditure and depreciate it over the expected useful life of the replaced asset.
Replaced assets are derecognised at this point.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment is replaced and it is not practicable to determine the carrying amount of the replaced part, the cost of the replacement will be used as an indication of what the cost of the replaced part was at the time it was acquired or constructed.
ii Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at the fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also allocated on a straight line basis over the lease term.
iii Hydro civil assets The Group is obliged under the Reservoirs Act 1975 to maintain its hydro infrastructure network, including its dams, tunnels and other hydro civil engineering structures hydro civil assets.
All items of property, plant and equipment within hydro civil assets, with the exception of land, are subject to depreciation.
In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 1, the Group identified the carrying value of these assets at privatisation and has treated this value as deemed cost.
Following this assessment, the assets, and all subsequent enhancement and replacement expenditure, has been subject to depreciation over a useful economic life of 100 years.
All subsequent maintenance expenditure is chargeable directly to the income statement.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Notes on the Financial Statements Continued 50 for the year ended 31 March 2006 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued Accounting policies Continued Property, plant and equipment Continued iv Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement to write off cost, less residual values, on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Depreciation policy, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at least annually, for all asset classes to ensure that the current method is the most appropriate.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Years Hydro civil assets 100 Power stations 20 to 60 Overhead lines and gas storage facilities 40 to 80 Other transmission and distribution buildings, plant and equipment 10 to 45 Shop refurbishment, fixtures, equipment, vehicles and mobile plant 3 to 10 Heritable and freehold land is not depreciated.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
v Subsequent expenditure Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits of the item of property, plant and equipment to which it relates.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for under the purchase method.
The acquired business is measured at the date of acquisition as the aggregate fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities as required under IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the acquired business is represented as goodwill.
Intangible assets i Goodwill Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as a charge to the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
From 1 April 1998 to 31 March 2004, any purchased goodwill was capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis to the income statement.
This was normally over a period of up to 20 years from the date of acquisition, with the exception of goodwill relating to the acquisitions of Hornsea and Neoscorp, which were amortised over a period of 30 years and 10 years respectively.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions purchased prior to 1 April 1998 was written-off to reserves in accordance with the accounting standard then in force.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 April 2004 goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the carrying amount recorded under UK GAAP which was broadly comparable save that only separable intangibles were recognised and goodwill was amortised.
The goodwill amortised between 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 has been reinstated.
On disposal or closure of a previously acquired business, any attributable goodwill will be included in determining the profit or loss on disposal, with the exception of any goodwill written off prior to 1 April 1998. ii Research and development Expenditure on research activities is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products or processes, is capitalised if the product or process is considered to be technically and commercially feasible and the Group intends to complete the intangible asset for use or for sale.
iii Allowances and emissions The European Emissions trading scheme EU ETS has been in operation since 1 January 2005.
The IASB withdrew IFRIC 3 Emission Rights in June 2005 and it has not been replaced with definitive guidance or interpretation for carbon trading.
The Group recognises carbon allowances granted as an intangible asset at fair value at the date of grant and carbon emission liabilities incurred are recorded as a current liability.
Carbon allowances purchased are recorded at cost.
Up to the level of allowances held the liability is measured at the cost of purchased or granted allowances held.
When emissions liabilities exceed the carbon allowances held, the net liability is measured at the market price of allowances ruling at the balance sheet date.
Forward contracts for the sale of allowances are measured at fair value.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 51 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued Accounting policies Continued Intangible assets Continued iii Allowances and emissions Continued The Renewable Obligations Certificates ROCs scheme is administered and accounted for in a similar, but not identical, manner to the European Emissions trading scheme.
ROCs obtained from own generation are awarded by a third party.
Self-generated ROCs are recorded at market value and purchased ROCs are recognised at cost within intangible assets.
The liability under the renewables obligation is recognised based on electricity supplied to customers, the percentages set by Ofgem and the prevailing market price.
iv Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that have been acquired by the Group, including the Atlantic brand, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Software licences are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Expenditure on internally generated brands is expensed as incurred.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of these other intangible assets.
The amortisation periods utilised are as follows: Years Brand values 10 Application software licences 5 Impairment testing The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than inventories or deferred tax assets, are reviewed each financial year to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If there is evidence of impairment, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of any such impairment.
For goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life, the test for impairment is carried out annually.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use is based on projected cash flows which are discounted for risks and the time value of money.
Where the cash flows of the asset under review cannot be assessed independently from other assets, the Group estimates to which cash-generating unit CGU the asset belongs.
Once established, the discounted projected cash flows of the asset or CGU are calculated and measured against the carrying amount of the asset or CGU.
Where the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount an impairment charge is recognised.
Inventories and work in progress With the exception of fuel stocks, inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of fuel stocks is based on the weighted average principle.
The valuation of work in progress is based on the cost of labour, the cost of contracts, the cost of materials plus appropriate overheads.
Recognition of revenue and profit on construction contracts Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured as the proportion of cost incurred on work performed to date compared to the estimated total contract cost, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer.
When it becomes probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately in the income statement.
Employee benefit obligations i Defined benefit pension schemes The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes, one of which is operated by the Company.
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit credit actuarial method and are discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
Any increase in the present value of liabilities within the Groups defined benefit pension schemes expected to arise from employee service in the year is charged as service costs to operating profit.
The expected return on the schemes assets and the increase during the year in the present value of the schemes liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in finance income and finance costs, respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Pension scheme surpluses, to the extent that they are considered recoverable, or deficits are recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet.
ii Defined contribution pension schemes The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The amounts charged represent the contributions payable to the schemes in the year and are charged directly to the income statement.
iii Equity and equity-related compensation benefits Applying the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, the requirements of IFRS 2 Share based payments have been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at 1 January 2005.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Notes on the Financial Statements Continued 52 for the year ended 31 March 2006 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued Accounting policies Continued Employee benefit obligations Continued iii Equity and equity-related compensation benefits Continued The Group operates a number of all employee share schemes as described in the Remuneration Report and note 28.
These schemes enable Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The exercise prices of the sharesave scheme are set at a discount to market price at the date of the grant.
The fair value of the sharesave scheme option granted is measured at the grant date by use of a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of the options granted is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the period that the scheme vests.
Estimates are updated at each balance sheet date with any adjustment in respect of the current and prior years being recognised in the income statement.
The costs associated with the other main employee schemes, the share incentive plan and the deferred bonus scheme, are recognised over the period to which they relate.
Financial instruments: from 1 April 2005 The Group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 1 April 2005 as permitted by the transition provisions of IFRS 1.
The comparative information for the year to 31 March 2005 has been prepared in accordance with FRS 4 Capital Instruments and the requirements of the Companies Act and is commented upon below.
IAS 39 requires that financial instruments are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the provisions of the instrument.
The Group uses a range of derivatives to hedge exposures to financial risks, such as interest rate, foreign exchange and energy price fluctuations in its normal course of business and in accordance with the Groups risk management policies.
The Groups risk management policies are further explained in note 29.
Accounting policies under IAS 32 and 39 i Interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives Financial derivative instruments are used by the Group to hedge interest rate and currency exposures.
All such derivatives are recognised at fair value and are re-measured to fair value each reporting period.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as being held for hedging purposes.
The designation of the hedge relationship is established at the inception of the contract and procedures are applied to ensure the derivative is highly effective in achieving its objective and that the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured.
The treatment of gains and losses on re-measurement is dependent on the classification of the hedge and whether the hedge relationship is designated as either a fair value or cash flow hedge.
Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are treated as if held for trading, with all fair value movements being recorded through the income statement.
A derivative classified as a fair value hedge recognises gains and losses from re-measurement immediately in the income statement.
Loans and borrowings are measured at cost except where they form the underlying transaction in an effective fair value hedge relationship.
In such cases, the carrying value of the loan or borrowing is adjusted to reflect fair value movements attributable to the risk being hedged with the gain or loss being reported in the income statement.
A derivative classified as a cash flow hedge recognises the portion of gains or losses on the derivative which are deemed to be effective directly in equity in the hedge reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the gains or losses is recognised in the Income Statement.
The gains or losses that are recognised directly in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the forecast transaction actually occurs.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity remains in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If the transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
ii Commodity derivatives Within its regular course of business, the Group routinely enters into sale and purchase derivative contracts for commodities such as electricity, gas, coal and oil.
Where the contract was entered into and continues to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery in accordance with the Groups expected sale, purchase or usage requirements, the contracts are designated as own use contracts and are measured at cost.
These contracts are not within the scope of IAS 39.
Derivative commodity contracts which are not designated as own use contracts are accounted for as trading derivatives and are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Where a hedge accounting relationship is designated and is proven to be effective, the changes in fair value will be recognised in accordance with the rules noted in part i to this note.
Other commodity contracts, where own use is not established and a hedge accounting relationship is not designated, are measured at fair value with gains and losses on re-measurement being recognised in the income statement.
iii Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives where the characteristics of the derivatives are not closely related to those of the host contracts.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 53 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued Accounting policies Continued Financial instruments: from 1 April 2005 Continued Accounting policies under IAS 32 and 39 iv Convertible bond The Group has issued a convertible bond that represents debt that can be converted to share capital at the option of the holder, where the number of shares issued does not vary with changes in their fair value.
This is accounted for as a compound financial instrument, net of transaction costs.
The equity component of the convertible bond is calculated as the excess of the issue proceeds over the present value of the future interest and principal payments, discounted at the market rate of interest applicable to similar liabilities that do not have a conversion option.
The interest expense recognised in the income statement is calculated using the effective interest method.
v Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
vi Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are measured at nominal value less an appropriate allowance for irrecoverable receivables.
vii Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All such loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value including transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, except where the loan or borrowing is the hedged item in an effective fair value hedge relationship.
viii Share capital Ordinary shares are accounted for as equity.
Costs associated with the issue of new shares are deducted from the proceeds of issue.
Financial instruments: accounting policies to 31 March 2005 The comparative information was prepared in accordance with FRS 4 Capital Instruments and the requirements of the Companies Act.
i Derivatives Interest receipts and payments were accrued to match the net income or cost with the related finance expense.
Revenue and costs under commodity contracts were recognised as incurred.
Where contracts were held to hedge particular exposures, the gain or loss was deferred until the crystallisation of the underlying transaction.
No amounts were recognised in respect of future periods.
Premiums, discounts or termination payments were spread over the shorter of the life of the instrument or the underlying exposure.
Gains and losses on early termination of interest rate swaps or repayment of borrowings were taken to the income statement where the hedged exposure no longer existed.
ii Convertible bond The convertible bond was accounted for as a loan with no equity component being recognised.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management necessarily makes judgements and estimates that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Changes in the assumptions underlying the estimates could result in a significant impact to the financial statements.
The most critical of these accounting judgement and estimation areas are noted.
i Revenue recognition Revenue on energy sales includes an estimate of the value of electricity or gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
This will have been estimated by using historical consumption patterns and takes into consideration industry reconciliation processes for total consumption by supplier.
At the balance sheet date, the estimated consumption by customers will either have been billed estimated billed revenue or accrued unbilled revenue.
Management apply judgement to the measurement of the quantum of the estimated consumption and to the valuation of that consumption.
The judgements applied, and the assumptions underpinning these judgements are considered to be appropriate.
However, a change in these assumptions would impact upon the amount of revenue recognised.
ii Retirement benefits The assumptions in relation to the cost of providing post-retirement benefits during the period are set after consultation with qualified actuaries.
While these assumptions are believed to be appropriate, a change in these assumptions would impact the earnings of the Group.
iii Impairment testing The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that the value of those assets is impaired.
In assessing for impairment, assets that do not generate independent cash flows are allocated to an appropriate cash generating unit CGU.
The recoverable amount of the assets, or the appropriate CGU, is measured as the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
