Company Accounting Policies As used in the financial statements and related notes, the term Company refers to SSL International plc.
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985 and under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices.
A list of principal Group undertakings is presented in note 28.
Basis of preparation The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
As permitted by the Act, the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices UK GAAP.
The accounting policies under UK GAAP are presented on pages 85 to 86.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
In accordance with section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account.
The loss for the financial year dealt with in the financial statements of the parent company, SSL International plc, is disclosed in note xi.
The Company has taken the exemption to prepare a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 revised 1996 Cash flow statements.
Implementation of UK Accounting Standards New accounting standards and prior year restatement FRS 20 Share-based payments The Company operates a range of share-based incentive schemes both awards of options and awards of shares and has applied the requirements of FRS 20 for the first time in these financial statements.
The Company has elected to apply the exemption to apply FRS 20 only to awards made after 7 November 2002 and not vested by 1 April 2004.
Under FRS 20, an expense is recognised in the income statement for all share-based payments.
The charge is based on the fair value at the date of grant using an appropriate option pricing model.
Compliance with FRS 20 has decreased net profit for the year ended 31 March 2005 by 0.5 million, and increased deferred tax assets by 0.3 million.
FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date This standard sets out revised requirements for accounting for events after the balance sheet date.
As a result of this standard, dividends can only be recognised at the balance sheet date if a legal liability exists.
The final dividend for 2006 is therefore not recognised until the dividend is declared, which is after the balance sheet date.
The 2005 final dividend was not declared at 31 March 2005, therefore the dividend charge recognised in the profit and loss and the dividend creditor recognised in the balance sheet have been reversed.
This standard has been adopted in full in these financial statements.
Compliance with FRS 21 has increased shareholders funds at 31 March 2005 by 8.0 million.
FRS 23 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates This standard, issued on 2 December 2004, prescribes how to include foreign currency transactions and foreign operations in financial statements, and how to translate financial statements into a presentational currency.
The statement was effective from 1 January 2005, and has been adopted in full in these financial statements.
Following the Companys policy for adoption of FRS 26 see below, the requirements of FRS 23 have been applied prospectively from 1 January 2005.
Compliance with FRS 23 has not impacted the Companys financial statements.
FRS25 Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation FRS 25 supersedes FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosure and substantially amends FRS 4 Capital instruments.
The standard was effective from 1 January 2005, however as the consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the IFRS equivalent standard IAS 32, the parent company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of this standard.
Compliance with FRS 25 has had no impact on the parent company accounts.
FRS 26 Financial instruments: Measurement FRS 26 applies to all listed entities for the periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, and prescribes new accounting rules relating to financial instruments and hedge accounting.
This standard has been adopted in full in these financial statements and applied prospectively from 1 April 2005.
Compliance with FRS 26 has increased opening reserves by 1.3 million.
The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented except for those relating to the measurement of financial instruments.
a Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is provided to write tangible fixed assets down to a residual value over their estimated useful economic lives at the following annual rates: Motor vehicles 25 per cent of cost or net book value according to the type of vehicle concerned.
Plant and equipment 7 per cent to 25 per cent of cost or net book value according to the circumstances of the assets concerned.
b Intangible assets Intangible assets that are acquired and which can be separately identified and valued, are capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives, usually between 10 and 20 years.
In determining the useful economic life each asset is reviewed separately and consideration given to the period over which the Group expects to derive economic benefit from the asset.
c Investments Unlisted investments are stated at cost less provisions for any impairment in value.
The Company has an investment in own shares which represent shares acquired by the Seton Healthcare Company Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST and Seton Healthcare Company Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP.
The shares are purchased on the open market and are held for employees participating in various share schemes.
In accordance with UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts the investment in these shares is shown as a reduction in shareholders funds.
d Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the loss profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Credit is taken for advance corporation tax written off in previous years when it recovered against corporation tax liabilities.
In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax is provided where a taxation liability will arise as a result of transactions or events which have occurred by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded that they will be recovered.
Provision is made at rates expected to be applicable when the liabilities or assets are likely to crystallise.
84 85 SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Company Accounting Policies 2006 Company Accounting Policies continued Implementation of UK Accounting Standards continued e Foreign currencies Foreign currencies 2006 Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses on transactions are included in the profit and loss account.
Foreign currencies 2005 Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction unless sale proceeds are the subject of a forward sale for a predetermined sum in Sterling.
Gains or losses on transactions are included in the profit and loss account to the extent that they are not matched by binding forward trading contracts.
f Derivative financial instruments As described further in note i, financial instruments in 2005 are reported in accordance with FRS 26 Financial instruments: Measurement.
The Company has applied this standard prospectively and therefore comparative information has not been restated as permitted by FRS 25.
The accounting policies for both periods are presented below.
Financial derivatives 2006 The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
With the exception of derivative financial instruments, and those hedged items forming part of a fair value hedge, financial instruments are held at amortised cost.
Hedge accounting The accounting for the Companys various hedging activities is detailed below: i Transaction exposure hedging Forward currency contracts hedging transaction exposures are fair valued through the income statement.
ii Fair value hedges Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge the Companys exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Any change in the fair value of the hedged item, attributable to the hedged risk, is adjusted against the carrying value of the hedged item and recognised immediately in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments qualifying for fair value hedge accounting are principally foreign currency and interest rate swaps.
Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Financial derivatives 2005 The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as a hedge the instrument must be related to actual foreign currency assets or liabilities or to a probable commitment.
It must involve the same currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and must also reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Companys operations.
Gains and losses arising on these contracts are deferred and recognised in the profit and loss account, or as adjustments to the carrying amount of fixed assets, only when the hedged transaction has itself been reflected in the Companys financial statements.
For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge the instrument must be related to actual assets or liabilities or a probable commitment and must change the nature of the interest rate by changing the basis of calculation, eg from fixed to floating rate.
Interest differentials under these swaps are recognised by adjusting net interest payable over the periods of the contracts.
If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any resulting profit or loss recognised at that time.
Financial assets and liabilities are held at amortised cost.
g Share-based payments The Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
The cost to the Company of making awards in the form of shares or rights to shares under these schemes is charged to the profit and loss account over the period to which the employees performance relates.
The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the grant date using an appropriate option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions precedent at the time of grant.
The impact of any non-market vesting conditions is excluded.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted and the number of equity instruments which eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number of instruments that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining period.
h Dividend income Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings is recognised within other income at the point the dividend has been declared.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised in the profit and loss account.
SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Company Accounting Policies 2006
