ABG-007 Abbot Accounts 2006. qxd 12 4 07 11:19 Page 78 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Abbot 11.2 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 3A Group plc the Company will be held at the offices of Tavistock of the Act, in either case as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not Communications Limited, 131 Finsbury Pavement, London EC2A 1NT apply to such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: on 23 May 2007 at 11.00am for the following purposes: i to allotments of equity securities where such securities 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Accounts and the have been offered whether by way of a rights issue open Auditors Report for the year ended 31 December 2006. offer or otherwise to holders of ordinary shares of the Company and, if in accordance with their rights as the 2.
To declare a final dividend of 3.65p per ordinary share for the year directors so determine, holders of other equity securities ended 31 December 2006 payable to eligible ordinary shareholders of any class made in proportion as nearly as may be to on the register of members at the close of business on 4 May 2007. their existing holdings of ordinary shares as the case may be and other equity securities of the class concerned so 3.
To re-appoint as a director Alasdair J. D. Locke who has offered that any offer to holders of other equity securities of any himself for re-appointment in accordance with Article 97 of the class shall be on the basis of their rights to receive such Articles of Association of the Company.
offer and, failing which, shall be on the basis that their holdings had been converted into or that they had 4.
To re-appoint as a director Robert A. Duncan who has offered subscribed for ordinary shares on the basis then himself for re-appointment in accordance with Article 97 of the applicable but subject in either case to the directors Articles of Association of the Company.
having a right to make such exclusions or other arrangements in connection with such offering 5.
To re-appoint as a director Peter J. Milne who has offered himself as they deem necessary or expedient: for re-appointment in accordance with Article 97 of the Articles of Association of the Company.
a to sell, for the benefit of those shareholders who are citizens of or resident in any overseas territory where 6.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of in the opinion of the directors it would at the time of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next the offer be illegal by relevant law or unduly costly General Meeting at which accounts are laid.
or burdensome for the Company to make or for those shareholders to accept an offer of equity securities of 7.
To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration the Company, the equity securities to which they of the Auditors.
would otherwise be entitled, save that the proceeds net of expenses of 3 or less due to any such Special Business shareholders may be retained for the benefit As Special Business, to consider and if thought fit, pass the of the Company: and following resolutions of which resolutions 8 to 10 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 11 and 12 will be proposed b to aggregate and sell for the benefit of the as special resolutions: Company all fractions of a share which may arise in apportioning the equity securities among the original Ordinary Resolutions shareholders: and 8.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report as set out on pages 36 to 40 of the Directors Report and Accounts.
ii to allotments otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above of equity securities having in the case of relevant 9.
That the rule 2.2 of The Abbot Group Annual Share Bonus Plan shares as defined in Section 94 of the Act a nominal be and is hereby amended by increasing the limit to the percentage amount, or in the case of other securities, giving the right of basis annual salary that may be awarded as bonus for the to subscribe for or convert into relevant shares having a purpose of that Plan, from 75 to 100 per cent with effect nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 1,742,787. from 1 January 2007. and this power shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion 10.
That, in substitution for any previous authority, the directors be of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in and the date fifteen months after the passing of this accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, resolution save that the Company may, before such expiry, to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities make an offer or agreement which would or might require as defined in that section up to a maximum aggregate nominal equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the amount of relevant securities of 11,144,249, being 31.97 per cent directors may allot equity securities pursuant to any such of the issued share capital of the Company as at 16 March 2007, offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had to expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General not expired.
Meeting of the Company and the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, but the Company may before this 12.
That, in accordance with Article 50 of the Articles of Association authority expires make an offer or agreement which would or of the Company and Chapter VII of Part V of the Act and subject might require relevant securities to be allotted after this authority to the following provisions of this resolution, the Company be expires, and the Company may allot relevant securities pursuant and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby to Section 166 of the Act to make market purchases within the had not expired.
meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of any of its own ordinary shares of 15p each on such terms and in such manner as the Special Resolutions directors of the Company may from time to time determine 11.
That, the directors be and they are hereby generally empowered provided that: pursuant to Section 95 of the Act.
i the maximum number of ordinary shares of 15p each 11.1 subject to resolution 10 above being passed, to allot equity authorised to be acquired is 23,237,167 representing just securities within the meaning of Section 94 2 of the Act under 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary capital of the Company for cash pursuant to the authority conferred as at 16 March 2007 : by resolution 10: and ii the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is 15p exclusive of expenses : Notice of Annual General Meeting - Annual Report and Accounts 2006 78 ABG-007 Abbot Accounts 2006. qxd 12 4 07 11:19 Page 79 iii unless a tender or partial offer is made to all holders of In addition, copies of the Articles of Association will be available the ordinary shares on the same terms, the maximum price for inspection at Minto Drive, Altens, Aberdeen, AB12 3LW and at exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary the offices of the Companys solicitors, Pinsent Masons, CityPoint, share is, in respect of a share contracted to be purchased on One Ropemaker Street, London, EC2Y 9AH during normal business any day, to be not more than 5 per cent above the average hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the of the middle market quotation of an ordinary share of the date of this Notice until the close of the Annual General Meeting.
Company taken from the Daily Official List of London Stock Exchange plc for the five business days immediately preceding 4.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertified Securities Regulations the day on which the contract of purchase is made.
2001, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend and vote at the iv the Company may enter into one or more contracts to Annual General Meeting is 6.00pm on 21 May 2007 being not purchase ordinary shares under this authority before this more than 48 hours prior to the time fixed for the Annual General authority expires which will or may be executed wholly Meeting or, if the Annual General Meeting is adjourned, such or partly after the expiry of the authority, and may make time being not more than 48 hours prior to the time fixed for the a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members contracts: and after that time will be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting.
iv this authority will unless renewed expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company held For CREST members only after the date on which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the twelve months from the date of passing of this resolution.
CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 May 2007 and any adjournment s By order of the Board thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and Alec W. J. Banyard those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, Company Secretary should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, 12 April 2007 who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Registered office In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST 3 Colmore Circus service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Birmingham Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with B4 6BH CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy 1.
A holder of ordinary shares who is entitled to attend and vote at the must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Annual General Meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy and, on a poll, vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a appointments specified in this notice of the meeting.
For this purpose, member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use by the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the shareholders.
In order to be valid, an appointment of proxy must timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host be returned by one of the following methods: from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time 1.1 in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST address shown on the form of proxy: should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
1.2 in the case of CREST members, by utilising the procedure set CREST members, and where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting out below under the heading FOR CREST MEMBERS ONLY.
service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal To be valid, proxies must be received not later than 48 hours before systems, timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the the Annual General Meeting.
Ordinary shareholders who have lodged input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST proxy forms are not thereby prevented from attending the meeting member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST and voting in person if so desired.
personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that their CREST sponsor or voting service 2.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their purpose, seniority is determined by the order in which the names CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, of the holders stand in the register of members of the Company to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations in respect of the joint holding.
of the CREST system and timings.
The following documents, which are available for inspection during The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the normal business hours at Minto Drive, Altens, Aberdeen AB12 3LW circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted will also be Securities Regulations 2001. available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting from 10.45am on 23 May 2007 until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting: 3.1 The register of interests of the directors and their families in the share capital of the Company: 3.2 Copies of all directors service contracts and contracts of appointment between the directors and the Company: and 3.3 The rules of The Abbot Group Annual Share Bonus Plan.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - Notice of Annual General Meeting 79
