Please write to: Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland, PO Box 28506, Finance House, Orchard Brae, Edinburgh EH4 1WQ.
Registrar forms can be obtained on-line at http: www.
com scg ir shareholder registrar Stagecoach individual savings accounts The Company has appointed Halifax Share Dealing Limited as an ISA provider and shareholders who would like further information should contact their help desk on 08457 22 55 25.
The Company has also made arrangements with Stocktrade for Maxi and Mini ISAs.
Full details and an application form are available from Stocktrade a division of Brewin Dolphin, 81 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3ES.
Low cost share dealing facility The Company has set up a low cost execution only share dealing facility with a division of Brewin Dolphin, Stocktrade, exclusive to Stagecoach shareholders.
The commission is 0.5% up to 10,000 with 0.2% being charged on the excess thereafter, subject to a 15 minimum.
Shareholders who would like further information should write to Stocktrade, 81 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3ES.
Telephone 0845 601 0995, quoting dealing reference Low Co020.
Postal dealing packs are available on request.
Payment of dividends by BACS Many shareholders have already arranged for dividends to be paid by mandate directly to their bank or building society account.
The mandates enable the Company to pay dividends through the BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services system.
The benefit to shareholders of the BACS system is that the registrar posts the tax vouchers directly to them, whilst the dividend is credited on the payment date to the shareholder bank or building society account.
Shareholders who wish to benefit from this service should request the Companys registrar address above to send them a dividend interest mandate form or alternatively complete the mandate form attached to the next dividend tax voucher they receive.
Dividend Re-Investment Plan The Company operates a Dividend Re-Investment Plan which allows a shareholders cash dividend to be used to buy Stagecoach shares at favourable commission rates.
Shareholders who would like further information should telephone Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland on 0870 241 3018.
