Consolidated income statement For the year ended 30 April 2006 2006 2005 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items the year exceptional items items the year Notes m m m m m m Revenue 2 1,568.5 Nil 1,568.5 1,420.5 Nil 1,420.5 Operating costs 3 1,627.2 7.4 1,634.6 1,453.8 5.5 1,459.3 Other operating income 4 209.7 Nil 209.7 176.1 Nil 176.1 Operating profit of Group companies 2 151.0 7.4 143.6 142.8 5.5 137.3 Share of profit loss of joint ventures after finance income and taxation 5.6 13.1 7.5 10.7 14.7 4.0 Share of profit loss of joint ventures: Operating profit loss 5.4 13.1 7.7 14.2 14.7 0.5 Finance income net 1.7 Nil 1.7 1.7 Nil 1.7 Taxation 1.5 Nil 1.5 5.2 Nil 5.2 5.6 13.1 7.5 10.7 14.7 4.0 Share of loss from interest in associate after finance charges and taxation Nil Nil Nil 0.4 Nil 0.4 Total operating profit: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 2 156.6 20.5 136.1 153.1 20.2 132.9 Gain on sale of properties 3 Nil 0.8 0.8 Nil 1.3 1.3 Loss on disposed operations and sale of investments 3 Nil 5.9 5.9 Nil 7.4 7.4 Profit before interest and taxation 156.6 25.6 131.0 153.1 26.3 126.8 Finance costs 5 24.6 Nil 24.6 35.2 Nil 35.2 Finance income 5 8.6 Nil 8.6 13.3 Nil 13.3 Profit before taxation 140.6 25.6 115.0 131.2 26.3 104.9 Taxation 7 31.4 5.0 26.4 28.0 2.7 25.3 Profit for the year from continuing operations 109.2 20.6 88.6 103.2 23.6 79.6 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 17 4.3 22.5 26.8 7.3 Nil 7.3 Profit for the year 113.5 1.9 115.4 110.5 23.6 86.9 Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 113.5 1.9 115.4 110.1 23.6 86.5 Earnings per share Adjusted Basic 9 10.6p 10.7p 9.5p 7.5p Diluted 9 10.4p 10.6p 9.3p 7.3p Earnings per share from continuing operations Adjusted Basic 9 10.2p 8.2p 8.9p 6.9p Diluted 9 10.0p 8.1p 8.7p 6.7p Dividends per ordinary share Interim paid 8 1.1p 1.0p Final proposed 8 2.6p 2.3p The accompanying notes form an integral part of this consolidated income statement.
page 36 | Stagecoach Group plc Consolidated balance sheet As at 30 April 2006 2006 2005 Notes m m ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill 10 100.1 93.6 Other intangible assets 11 17.3 9.2 Property, plant and equipment 12 708.8 694.2 Interests in joint ventures 13 52.0 56.1 Interests in associate 14 1.0 1.0 Financial assets: Available for sale and other investments 15 4.2 1.8 Deferred tax asset 24 8.4 4.1 Other receivables 20 1.6 6.7 893.4 866.7 Current assets Inventories 19 13.2 12.5 Trade and other receivables 20 179.9 169.2 Financial assets: Derivative instruments at fair value 27 3.7 Nil Cash and cash equivalents 21 198.5 140.0 395.3 321.7 Total assets 1,288.7 1,188.4 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade and other payables 22 341.3 357.6 Current tax liabilities 29.0 33.3 Financial liabilities: Borrowings 23 66.3 126.5 Financial liabilities: Derivative instruments at fair value 27 2.8 Nil Provisions 25 63.2 55.6 502.6 573.0 Non-current liabilities Other payables 22 9.2 8.1 Financial liabilities: Borrowings 23 291.2 228.1 Deferred tax liabilities 24 5.2 5.5 Provisions 25 46.7 37.4 Retirement benefit obligations 26 222.2 220.9 574.5 500.0 Total liabilities 1,077.1 1,073.0 Net assets 211.6 115.4 EQUITY Ordinary share capital 28 6.9 6.8 Redeemable B preference shares 28 n a 13.9 Share premium account 30 174.8 163.4 Retained earnings 30 212.1 294.4 Capital redemption reserve 30 243.0 229.1 Own shares 30 6.1 6.8 Translation reserve 30 4.0 3.4 Available for sale reserve 30 1.9 Nil Cash flow hedging reserve 30 0.8 Nil Total equity 211.6 115.4 These financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 28 June 2006.
Brian Souter Martin A Griffiths Chief Executive Finance Director The accompanying notes form an integral part of this consolidated balance sheet.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 37 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense For the year ended 30 April 2006 2006 2005 Notes m m Income and expense recognised directly in equity Foreign exchange differences on translation of foreign operations net of hedging 4.7 3.4 Actuarial gains losses on Group defined benefit pension schemes 26 13.9 50.9 Actuarial gains losses on joint ventures defined benefit pension schemes 5.2 9.1 Net fair value gains on cash flow hedges 27 9.2 Nil Net fair value gains on available for sale investments 15 1.9 Nil 34.9 56.6 Transfers to the income statement Exchange differences on disposal of foreign operations 17 3.9 Nil Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in profit for the year 27 17.3 Nil 21.2 Nil Tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity Tax on foreign exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 0.2 Nil Tax effect of actuarial gains losses on Group defined benefit pensions schemes 4.2 15.3 Tax effect of share of actuarial gains losses on joint ventures defined benefit pension schemes 1.5 2.7 Tax effect of cash flow hedges Nil Nil Tax effect of share based payments 2.9 Nil 7 3.0 18.0 Net income expense not recognised in income statement 10.7 38.6 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 115.4 86.5 Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 126.1 47.9 Effect of changes in accounting policy: Balances recognised on the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, net of taxation 7.7 Nil The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
page 38 | Stagecoach Group plc Consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 30 April 2006 2006 2005 Notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 31 203.0 200.7 Tax paid 27.5 27.1 Net cash from operating activities free cash flow 175.5 173.6 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 31 27.7 5.9 Disposals of subsidiaries and other businesses, net of cash disposed of 17 104.4 14.7 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 91.9 73.5 Disposals of property, plant and equipment 31 8.2 7.1 Purchase of intangible assets 0.6 0.3 Purchase of other investments 2.8 0.2 Disposal of other investments 0.6 0.6 Movement in loans to joint ventures 0.3 6.7 Purchase of investments in joint ventures 0.4 Nil Net cash used in investing activities 9.9 50.8 Cash flows from financing activities Issue of shares 7.0 5.3 Redemption of B shares 13.9 227.4 Expenses on issue of B shares Nil 0.4 Redemption of B shares by employee ownership trusts Nil 1.7 Investment in own ordinary shares by employee share ownership trusts Nil 1.9 Sale of own ordinary shares by employee share ownership trusts 0.7 4.8 Repayments of hire purchase and lease finance 35.1 92.5 Proceeds of sale and leaseback transaction 49.5 Nil Repayment of borrowings 73.9 110.1 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 36.6 37.2 Sale of tokens 7.4 10.2 Redemption of tokens 11.4 10.9 Net cash used in financing activities 106.3 458.4 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 59.3 335.6 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 138.5 476.5 Exchange rate effects 0.5 2.4 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 21 198.3 138.5 The accompanying notes form an integral part of this consolidated cash flow statement.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 39 page 40 | Stagecoach Group plc Consolidated statement of changes in equity RedeemableShare Capital AvailableCash flow Ordinary share B preference premium Retained redemption Translation for hedging Total capital shares account earnings reserve Own shares reserve sale reserve reserve equity Notes m m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 May 2004 6.7 392.4 75.7 1.7 3.9 321.2 Profit for the year 86.9 86.9 Foreign exchange differences on translation of foreign operations net of hedging 3.4 3.4 Actuarial losses on Group defined benefit pension schemes 50.9 50.9 Actuarial losses on joint ventures defined benefit pension schemes 9.1 9.1 Tax on items taken directly to equity for split see Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense on page 38 18.0 18.0 Own shares purchased 5.4 5.4 Own shares sold 2.5 2.5 B shares issued from share premium 241.3 241.3 Redemption of B shares 227.4 227.4 227.4 227.4 Expenses on issue of B shares 0.4 0.4 Arising on new ordinary share issues 0.1 12.7 12.8 Credit in relation to share based payment 1.4 1.4 Dividends 8 37.6 37.6 Balance at 30 April 2005 6.8 13.9 163.4 294.4 229.1 6.8 3.4 115.4 Balances recognised on the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, net of taxation 13.9 0.9 0.2 7.3 7.7 Balance at 1 May 2005 6.8 163.4 295.3 229.1 6.8 3.2 7.3 107.7 Profit for the year 115.4 115.4 Foreign exchange differences on translation of foreign operations net of hedging 4.7 4.7 Actuarial gains on Group defined benefit pension schemes 13.9 13.9 Actuarial gains on joint ventures defined benefit pension schemes 5.2 5.2 Net fair value gains on cash flow hedges 9.2 9.2 Net fair value gains on available for sale investments 1.9 1.9 Exchange differences on disposal of foreign operations 3.9 3.9 Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in profit for the year 17.3 17.3 Tax on items taken directly to equity for split see Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense on page 38 3.0 3.0 Own shares sold 0.7 0.7 Redemption of B shares 13.9 13.9 Arising on new ordinary share issues 0.1 11.4 11.5 Credit in relation to share based payment 2.2 2.2 Dividends 8 36.6 36.6 Balance at 30 April 2006 6.9 174.8 212.1 243.0 6.1 4.0 1.9 0.8 211.6 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies These consolidated financial statements are the first full-year financial statements of the Group to be presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS for the first time.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as endorsed by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the functional and presentational currency of the Group, and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
IFRS transitional arrangements and new standards adopted early When preparing the Groups IFRS balance sheet at 1 May 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, the following optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS accounting policies have been adopted: Business combinations the provisions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations have been applied prospectively from 1 May 2004.
For business combinations prior to 1 May 2004, the accounting for the combinations was not restated on the adoption of IFRS.
Employee benefits the accumulated actuarial gains and losses in respect of employee defined benefit plans have been recognised in full at the date of transition.
The Group has also adopted the amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits early, allowing actuarial gains and losses to be charged to the statement of recognised income and expense in the period they arise.
Share based payment transactions the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment have not been applied to equity instruments that were granted before 7 November 2002 or equity instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 that had vested before the date of transition, being 1 May 2004.
Financial instruments the Group has chosen not to restate comparative information with respect to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Cumulative translation differences the accumulated translation difference at the date of transition has been set at zero for all foreign operations.
Fair value as deemed cost the Group has chosen to use the exemption allowing it to adopt the fair value of certain fixed assets as deemed cost on transition to IFRS.
The Group has also early adopted the amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRSs are given in note 36.
New standards and interpretations not applied During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date for financial years beginning on or after the dates disclosed below and therefore after the date of these financial statements: Effective date IFRS 4 Insurance contracts Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 1 January 2006 IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 IAS 21 Amendment, Net investment in foreign operations 1 January 2006 IAS 39 Amendments to IAS 39, Fair value option 1 January 2006 IAS 39 Amendments to IAS 39, Transition and initial recognition of financial assets and liabilities Day 1 profits 1 January 2006 IAS 39 Amendments to IAS 39, Cash flow hedge accounting 1 January 2006 IAS 39 Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4, Financial guarantee contracts 1 January 2006 IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease 1 January 2006 IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds 1 January 2006 IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market - Waste electrical and electronic equipment 1 December 2005 IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies 1 March 2006 IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2, Share-based payment 1 May 2006 IFRIC 9 Re-assessment of embedded derivatives 1 June 2006 Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will need to expand the disclosures in relation to the fair value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure.
The adoption of this standard is not expected to materially impact the Groups profit or net assets.
The Directors do not anticipate that that adoption of any of the other above standards or interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Comparatives Where necessary, comparative figures have been adjusted to conform with changes in presentation in the current year.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates made up to 30 April in each year.
The consolidated income statement includes the results of businesses purchased from the effective date of acquisition and excludes the results of disposed operations and businesses sold from the effective date of disposal.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 41 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries, which are those entities in which the Group has an interest of more than one half of the voting rights or otherwise has power to govern the financial and operating policies, are consolidated.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or presently convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method also known as the acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given up, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
ii Associates and joint ventures Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Joint ventures are enterprises that the Group has the power to jointly govern the enterprises financial and operating policies with other investors based on contractual agreement.
Associates are enterprises, other than joint ventures, that are not controlled by the Group over which the Group generally has between 20% and 50% of the voting rights, or over which the Group has significant influence.
Under the equity method of accounting, the Groups consolidated income statement includes the Groups share of profits less losses of joint ventures and associates, while the share of net assets of joint ventures and associates is included in the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Where the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate exceeds its interest in that enterprise, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in each business: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The Groups investment in joint ventures and associates includes goodwill on acquisition.
The Group applies its own accounting policies and estimates when accounting for its share of joint ventures and associates, making appropriate adjustments where necessary, having due regard to all relevant factors.
Presentation of income statement and exceptional items Where applicable, income statement information has been presented in a columnar format, which separately highlights the amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items.
This is intended to enable users of the financial statements to determine more readily the impact of the amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items on the results of the Group.
Unlike UK GAAP, there is no definition of exceptional items in IFRS.
For this purpose, exceptional items are items which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence if the financial statements are to present fairly the financial performance of the Group.
Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the period.
Although these estimates and assumptions are based on managements best knowledge, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates and assumptions used.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement of retirement benefit obligations, the measurement and impairment of goodwill and the measurement of insurance provisions.
The measurement of retirement benefit obligations requires the estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, the expected return on scheme assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate see note 26.
The Group determines whether goodwill arising on business combinations is impaired on an annual basis and this requires the estimation of value in use of the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate see note 10.
The estimation of the insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
Those accounting policies that the Directors believe require the greatest exercise of judgement are described on page 13.
Revenue Revenue represents gross revenue earned from public transport services and excludes payments received on account.
Amounts receivable for tendered services and concessionary fare schemes are included as part of revenue.
Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates and VAT.
Revenues incidental to the Groups principal activity including advertising income and maintenance income are reported as miscellaneous revenue see note 4.
Rail revenue includes amounts attributable to the train operating companies, based principally on agreed models of route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry in respect of passenger receipts.
Franchise agreement receipts from the Department for Transport DfT and local Passenger Transport Executives are treated as other operating income see note 4.
Franchise agreement payments to the DfT SRA are recognised in operating costs.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customers travel or services provided under contractual arrangements as a proportion of total services to be provided.
page 42 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Revenue continued Net compensation receivable by UK Rail companies in respect of service disruption under the performance regime provisions of the track access agreements with Network Rail is recognised over the expected period of disruption and is shown as other operating income.
Income from advertising and other activities is recognised as the income is earned.
Finance income is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method.
Government grants Grants from the government are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Group will comply with all attached conditions.
Government grants relating to costs are deferred and recognised in the income statement over the period necessary to match them with the costs they are intended to compensate.
Government grants relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are recorded as liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected lives of the related assets.
Revenue grants receivable in respect of the operation of rail franchises in the UK are credited to the income statement in the period in which the related expenditure is recognised in the income statement or where they do not relate to any specific expenditure, in the period in which the grant is receivable.
These rail franchise grants are classified within other operating income.
Share based payments The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments to certain employees.
The Group has applied the optional exemption contained within IFRS 1, which allows it to apply IFRS 2 only to equity instruments granted after 7 November 2002 that have not vested before the date of transition, being 1 May 2004.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any non-market based vesting conditions and no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest as a result of a failure to satisfy a non-market based vesting condition.
None of the Groups equity-settled transactions have any market based performance conditions.
Fair value for equity-settled share based payments is estimated by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model.
At each balance sheet date, before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated based on managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest taking into consideration the likelihood of achieving non-market based vesting conditions.
The movement in this cumulative expense is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled by the Group, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
Cash-settled transactions The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value.
Fair value is estimated initially at the grant date and at each balance sheet date thereafter until the awards are settled.
Market based performance conditions are taken into account when determining fair value.
Fair value for cash-settled share based payments being only those that relate to the Long Term Incentive Plan is estimated by use of a simulation model.
During the vesting period, a liability is recognised representing the estimated fair value of the award and the portion of the vesting period expired as at the balance sheet date.
Changes in the carrying amount of the liability are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Choice of settlement The Company can choose to settle awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan in either cash or equity, although it currently intends to settle all such awards in cash.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan are accounted for as cash-settled transactions see above.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs and after the share of after-tax results of associates and joint ventures but before finance income, finance costs, non-operating exceptional items, taxation and profit from discontinued operations.
Taxation Corporation tax is provided on taxable profits at the current rate applicable.
Tax charges and credits are accounted for through the same primary statement as the related pre-tax item.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred income tax is measured at tax rates that are expected to apply in periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and law enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Dividends Dividends on ordinary shares are recorded in the Groups financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Groups shareholders, or in the case of interim dividends, in the period in which they are paid.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 43 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Segment reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Due to the nature of the Groups operations, the business segments can be directly aligned with the geographical segments.
The Group is managed, and reports internally on a basis consistent with its three segments which consist of UK Bus, North America, and UK Rail.
The New Zealand division was disposed of during the year ended 30 April 2006 and its results for that year up to the date of disposal and for the comparative year are now included within the profit for the year from discontinued operations.
Foreign currency translation The financial statements of overseas subsidiaries are maintained in the local currencies in which the entities transact business.
The trading results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using average rates of exchange.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the opening net assets and results of overseas operations, together with exchange differences arising on net foreign currency borrowings and foreign currency derivatives, to the extent they hedge the Groups investment in overseas operations, are recognised as a separate component of equity being the translation reserve.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency transactions arising during the year are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
On disposal of a foreign subsidiary, the amount of any exchange differences relating to the subsidiary that has been deferred in the translation reserve is recognised in the income statement within the reported gain or loss on disposal.
The Group has taken the IFRS 1 exemption which allows accumulated exchange differences at the date of transition, being 1 May 2004, to be set to zero for all foreign subsidiaries.
PRINCIPAL RATES OF EXCHANGE 2006 2005 New Zealand Dollar Period end rate 2006 is as at date of disposal 2.4606 2.6088 Average rate 2006 is average up to date of disposal 2.5641 2.7240 US Dollar: Year end rate 1.8176 1.9099 Average rate 1.7751 1.8530 Canadian Dollar: Year end rate 2.0368 2.3969 Average rate 2.1079 2.3621 Business combinations and goodwill On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of such net assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prior to 1 May 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful life: such amortisation ceased on 30 April 2004 but goodwill amortisation expensed prior to 1 May 2004 was not reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, then the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Any impairment of goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and all or part of that unit is disposed of, the associated goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the disposed operation when determining the overall gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year ended 30 April 1998 and earlier periods was written off directly to reserves in accordance with the UK accounting standards then in force.
Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves.
Impairment of non-current assets Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets excluding goodwill, financial assets and other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
page 44 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Impairment of non-current assets continued In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately from a business combination are capitalised at cost.
The initial cost recognised is the aggregate amount paid plus the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised, separately from goodwill, at fair value at the date of acquisition if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Amortisation is calculated on the straight-line method to write-off the cost or fair value at acquisition as the case may be of each asset over their estimated useful lives shown below.
Goodwill is not amortised unless it relates to a rail franchise of a finite duration.
Customer contracts over the life of the contract 1 to 6 years for current contracts Right to operate rail franchise over the life of the franchise 3 years from February 2004 to February 2007 for current franchises Non-compete contracts between 2 and 5 years for current contracts Software costs 2 to 5 years Marketing costs incurred during the start-up phase of a new activity are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment On transition to IFRS the Group adopted the optional exemption contained within IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards allowing it to use the fair value of certain property, plant and equipment as deemed cost.
Property, plant and equipment acquired as part of a business combination is stated at fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to write off the cost, fair value at acquisition or deemed cost of each asset to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Heritable and freehold buildings and long leasehold properties 50 years Short leasehold properties period of lease IT and other equipment, furniture and fittings 3 to 10 years Public Service Vehicles PSVs and transportation equipment 7 to 16 years Motor cars and other vehicles 3 to 5 years Heritable and freehold land is not depreciated The carrying value of items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the current carrying value may not be recoverable.
Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its recoverable amount.
The useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed annually and, where applicable, adjustments are made on a prospective basis.
An item of property, plant or equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds received with the carrying amount of the asset and are included in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
Repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of major renovations is included in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the originally assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will flow to the Group.
Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for obsolete or slow moving items.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO or average cost method.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.
Pre-contract costs The costs associated with securing new rail franchises are expensed as incurred, except where it is highly probable that a contract will be awarded in which case they are recognised as an asset and are charged to the income statement over the life of the franchise.
Hire purchase and lease obligations Assets acquired under hire purchase and finance lease arrangements, where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges, and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Assets capitalised under finance leases and other similar contracts are depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful economic lives.
Assets capitalised under hire purchase contracts are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The principal restriction on assets held under finance lease or hire purchase agreements is a restriction on the right to dispose of the assets during the period of the agreement.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 45 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Tokens Tokens issued by National Transport Tokens Limited, a subsidiary of the Group, are credited to a token redemption provision to the extent they are expected to be redeemed.
Redemptions are offset against this provision and associated handling commission paid to third parties is included in operating costs.
Funds from the sale of tokens required for token redemption are included as a financing activity in the consolidated cash flow statement.
The estimate of the balance sheet provision for token redemption is remeasured at each balance sheet date and is based on the value of tokens issued by the Group but not yet redeemed at the balance sheet date.
Allowance is made for the estimated proportion of tokens in issue that will never be redeemed.
This allowance is estimated with reference to historic redemption rates.
At 30 April 2006, it has been estimated that 97% 30 April 2005: 97% of tokens in issue will be redeemed.
Environmental provisions Provisions for environmental costs are recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to undertake environmental clean-ups or other work in respect of environmental matters and the associated costs can be reasonably estimated.
The amounts recognised are the best estimate of the expenditure that will be required to meet the Groups obligations.
Insurance The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and employee claims.
The Group protects against the cost of such claims through third party insurance policies.
An element of the claims is not insured as a result of the excess on insurance policies.
Provision is made on a discounted basis for the estimated cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
The estimate of the balance sheet insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement of known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but for which claims have not yet been reported to the Group.
The provision is set after taking account of advice from third party actuaries.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group contributes to a number of pension schemes.
The principal defined benefit occupational schemes are as follows: The Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme SGPS The South West Trains section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS The Island Line section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS A number of UK local Government Pension Schemes LGPS The Yorkshire Traction Company Limited Pension Plan YTC The Strathtay Scottish Omnibuses Limited Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SSO The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits, as amended to allow actuarial gains and losses to be charged to the statement of recognised income and expense in the period they arise.
In respect of these defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at market value.
The operating and financing costs of such plans are included within operating profit and are disclosed separately in the notes to the financial statements: service costs are spread systematically over the lives of employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense.
A full actuarial valuation is undertaken triennially for each scheme with the deficit being updated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the scheme obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity equivalent to the terms of the related obligations.
The liability recognised for the relevant sections of RPS represents only that part of the net deficit of each section that the employer expects to fund over the life of the franchise to which the section relates.
For defined contribution schemes, the Group pays contributions to privately administered pension plans.
Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
Financial instruments The Group has opted to apply IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement prospectively from 1 May 2005 without restating prior periods.
Consequently, the Groups prior accounting policies under UK GAAP has been used for the 2005 comparatives.
The policy under UK GAAP for derivative financial instruments is shown on page 48.
The effect of the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on reserves at 1 May 2005, is a cumulative reduction to net assets of 7.7m as detailed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 40.
The main adjustments were reclassifying the Groups redeemable preference shares from equity to debt resulting in a 13.9m reduction to net assets and the recognition of the fair value of the Groups fuel price swaps as a hedge leading to the creation of a 7.3m cash flow hedging reserve and a net increase in net assets of 6.6m.
The disclosure of the accounting policies that follow for financial instruments are those that apply under IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Financial assets Financial assets are classified, as appropriate, as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held to maturity investments or as available for sale.
They include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, other receivables, loans, other investments and derivative financial instruments.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: page 46 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Financial assets continued Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Financial assets classified as held for trading and other assets designated as such on inception are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for sale in the short-term.
Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
Assets in this category are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables: Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit or loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Held-to-maturity investments: Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity are classified as held-to-maturity when the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold the investment to maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Held-to-maturity gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the assets are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Investments intended to be held for an undefined period cannot be included in this classification.
Available-for-sale financial assets: Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the above categories.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the asset is derecognised or until the asset is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Financial liabilities When a financial liability is recognised initially, the Group measures it at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial liability.
Financial liabilities include trade payables, other payables, borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
Subsequent measurement depends on its classification as follows: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Financial liabilities classified as held for trading and derivative liabilities that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Liabilities are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses being recognised in the income statement.
Other: All other financial liabilities not classified as fair value through the profit or loss are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Fair values The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to appropriate market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These include using pricing models and discounted cash flow analysis.
Otherwise assets are carried at cost.
Derivative financial instruments From 1 May 2005, derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception.
This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: Cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, including intra-group transactions: or Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity.
Net gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all other derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, are taken to the income statement.
These may arise from derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied because they are either not designated or not effective as hedging instruments from an accounting perspective.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows: Fair value hedges: For fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged: the derivative is remeasured at fair value and gains and losses from both the derivative and the hedged item are taken to the income statement.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
For hedged items carried at amortised cost, the hedge adjustment is amortised through the income statement such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
Cash flow hedges: For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
For cash flow hedges of forecast fuel purchases, the transfer is to operating costs within the income statement.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 47 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Derivative financial instruments continued If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are then transferred to the income statement.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense are transferred to the income statement.
Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: For hedges of the net investment in a foreign entity, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense are transferred to the income statement when the foreign entity is sold.
Non-derivative financial liabilities can be designated as hedges of a net investment in a foreign entity and are subject to the same requirements as derivative hedges of a net investment in a foreign entity.
Trade and other receivables Trade debtors and other receivables are carried at original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the present value of expected cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest for similar borrowers.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments, less bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective yield method: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost which approximates to nominal value due to creditors days being relatively low.
Preferred shares From 1 May 2005, preferred shares, which are redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the shareholder, or which carry non-discretionary dividend obligations, are classified as liabilities.
The dividend on these preferred shares is recognised in the income statement as an interest expense.
Prior to 1 May 2005, preferred shares were recognised in equity and the dividends were recognised as an appropriation of profit.
Derivative financial instruments under UK GAAP Prior to 1 May 2005, the policy for derivative financial instruments under UK GAAP was as set out below.
For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as a hedge, the instrument must be related to actual foreign currency assets or liabilities or to a probable commitment.
It must involve the same currency or similar as the hedged item and must also reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Group.
Gains and losses arising on these contracts are either held off balance sheet or deferred on balance sheet and recognised either in the income statement or as adjustments to the carrying amount of fixed assets, only when the hedged transaction has itself been reflected in the Groups financial statements.
Gains and losses arising on derivatives hedging overseas net investments are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense.
For interest rate and commodity swaps to be treated as a hedge, the instrument must be related to actual assets or liabilities or a probable commitment and must change the nature of the interest rate or fuel cost by converting a fixed rate to a variable rate or vice versa.
Cash flows under these swaps are recognised by adjusting net interest payable and fuel costs over the periods of the contracts.
Gains and losses arising from the termination of these contracts are deferred on balance sheet and amortised to the income statement over the remaining period of the related hedged item or recognised immediately in the income statement where the hedge item no longer exists.
If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example because the underlying hedged position no longer exists or the hedge is no longer effective, provision is made for any fair value loss on the instrument at that time.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares, other than in connection with business combinations, are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Share issue costs incurred directly in connection with a business combination are included in the cost of acquisition.
Where the Company, its subsidiaries or employee share ownership trusts sponsored by the Company purchases the Companys ordinary share capital, the consideration paid including any attributable incremental external costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in equity.
The accounting policy in relation to preferred shares is included in the accounting policy for financial instruments above.
page 48 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 2 Segmental information The Group is managed, and reports internally, on a basis consistent with its three continuing business segments which consist of UK Bus, North America and UK Rail.
The Groups New Zealand operations were disposed of during the year ended 30 April 2006 and therefore there is no segment income statement information provided for the New Zealand segment, however balance sheet segment information is provided for the comparative year in note 2 c. Due to the nature of the services the Group provides, the primary and secondary segments coincide.
The IFRS accounting policies set out in these financial statements are applied consistently, where appropriate to each segment.
The segmental information provided in this note is on the basis of three primary segments, and gives the details for both business segments and geographical segments as follows: Segment name Business segment Geographical segment UK Bus Coach and bus operations United Kingdom North America Coach and bus operations North America UK Rail Rail operations United Kingdom UK Bus and North America provide coach and bus services while UK Rail provides rail services.
The Group has interests in two joint ventures: Virgin Rail Group that operates in UK Rail and Citylink that operates in UK Bus.
The results of these joint ventures are shown separately in notes 2 b and 2 f. a Revenue Due to the nature of the Groups business, the origin and destination of revenue is the same in all cases.
No material part of each segments revenue shown below relates to transactions with other segments.
2006 2005 m m Continuing operations UK Bus continuing excluding acquisitions in year 775.7 720.3 UK Bus acquisitions in year 38.5 Nil North America 247.6 213.7 Total bus continuing operations 1,061.8 934.0 UK Rail 506.7 479.4 Total continuing operations 1,568.5 1,413.4 Discontinued operations North America Nil 7.1 Group revenue 1,568.5 1,420.5 The discontinued revenue from North America for the prior year is shown above rather than being reclassified to the profit on discontinued operations line on the face of the income statement.
This is due to the fact that the expenses and profit from the discontinued element of North America for the prior year are not clearly distinguishable due to certain shared costs that relate to North America as a whole.
Consequently, as we cannot reallocate the expenses and profit from the discontinued element of North America to the profit on discontinued operations in the income statement, the discontinued element of the revenue remains above.
The profit from the discontinued element of North America is in any case believed to be immaterial.
The revenue from the discontinued New Zealand division forms part of the profit for the year from discontinued operations line on the face of the income statement on page 36 and is shown separately in note 17.
Total revenue excluding revenue from discontinued operations comprises: 2006 2005 m m Group revenue shown above 1,568.5 1,420.5 Other operating income note 4 209.7 176.1 Share of profit of joint ventures 5.6 10.7 Finance income 8.6 13.3 1,792.4 1,620.6 Stagecoach Group plc | page 49 Notes to the consolidated accounts Note 2 Segmental information continued b Operating profit 2006 2005 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items the year exceptional items items the year m m m m m m Continuing operations UK Bus continuing, excluding acquisitions in year 88.6 Nil 88.6 87.7 0.8 86.9 UK Bus acquisitions in year 1.9 Nil 1.9 Nil Nil Nil North America 16.9 Nil 16.9 15.5 Nil 15.5 Total bus continuing operations 103.6 Nil 103.6 103.2 0.8 102.4 UK Rail 58.9 Nil 58.9 50.0 Nil 50.0 Total continuing operations 162.5 Nil 162.5 153.2 0.8 152.4 Group overheads 10.0 Nil 10.0 9.0 0.6 9.6 Amortisation of intangible assets Nil 7.4 7.4 Nil 4.1 4.1 Redundancy restructuring costs 1.5 Nil 1.5 1.4 Nil 1.4 Total operating profit of continuing Group operations 151.0 7.4 143.6 142.8 5.5 137.3 Share of profit of joint ventures after finance income and taxation Virgin Rail Group 5.5 Nil 5.5 10.7 Nil 10.7 Operating profit 5.3 Nil 5.3 14.2 Nil 14.2 Finance income net 1.7 Nil 1.7 1.7 Nil 1.7 Taxation 1.5 Nil 1.5 5.2 Nil 5.2 5.5 Nil 5.5 10.7 Nil 10.7 Citylink 0.1 Nil 0.1 Nil Nil Nil Operating profit 0.1 Nil 0.1 Nil Nil Nil Finance income net Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Taxation Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 0.1 Nil 0.1 Nil Nil Nil Goodwill charge on investment in continuing joint ventures Nil 13.1 13.1 Nil 14.7 14.7 Share of loss of associate after finance charges and taxation Continuing other Nil Nil Nil 0.4 Nil 0.4 Total operating profit: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 156.6 20.5 136.1 153.1 20.2 132.9 The operating profit from the discontinued element of North America for the prior year is not separately shown because it is not clearly distinguishable due to certain shared costs that relate to North America as a whole.
However, the discontinued element of North Americas operating profit is not believed to be material in the context of the Groups operating profit as a whole for the year ended 30 April 2005.
The operating profit from the discontinued New Zealand division forms part of the profit for the year from discontinued operations line on the face of the income statement on page 36 and is shown separately in note 17. page 50 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 2 Segmental information continued c Gross assets and liabilities 2006 2005 Gross Gross Net assets Gross Gross Net assets assets liabilities liabilities assets liabilities liabilities m m m m m m UK Bus 626.0 187.4 438.6 559.4 189.0 370.4 North America 244.8 45.1 199.7 232.2 62.0 170.2 UK Rail 89.7 196.9 107.2 97.0 184.0 87.0 New Zealand Discontinued Nil Nil Nil 86.0 11.1 74.9 960.5 429.4 531.1 974.6 446.1 528.5 Central functions 68.3 256.0 187.7 11.6 233.5 221.9 Joint ventures 52.0 52.0 56.1 56.1 Associate 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Borrowings and cash 198.5 357.5 159.0 140.0 354.6 214.6 Taxation 8.4 34.2 25.8 5.1 38.8 33.7 Total 1,288.7 1,077.1 211.6 1,188.4 1,073.0 115.4 Central assets and liabilities include the token provisions, interest payable and receivable on Group debt and other net assets of the holding company.
d Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment The capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment shown below is on an accruals basis, not on a cash basis, and includes expenditure on property, plant and equipment through business combinations.
2006 2005 m m UK Bus continuing, excluding acquisitions in year 64.5 51.4 UK Bus acquisitions in year 54.4 1.2 North America 26.3 33.9 UK Rail 1.9 7.5 Discontinued operations 3.2 10.8 150.3 104.8 e Capital expenditure on intangible assets The capital expenditure on intangible assets including goodwill shown below includes acquisitions through business combinations.
2006 2005 m m UK Bus continuing, excluding acquisitions in year Nil 2.5 UK Bus acquisitions in year 35.4 Nil North America 0.2 1.2 UK Rail 0.4 0.2 36.0 3.9 Stagecoach Group plc | page 51 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2 Segmental information continued f EBITDA, depreciation and amortisation expense The results of each segment are further analysed below: Year ended 30 April 2006 EBITDA Joint venture Amortisation Allocation pre-exceptional interest and Depreciation Operating of intangible Exceptional of restructuring Operating items tax expense profit sub-total assets items costs profit m m m m m m m m UK Bus - continuing, excluding acquisitions in year 133.0 Nil 44.4 88.6 1.2 Nil 0.2 87.2 UK Bus - acquisitions in year 0.5 Nil 2.4 1.9 2.4 Nil 0.8 5.1 North America 32.9 Nil 16.0 16.9 0.8 Nil Nil 16.1 UK Rail subsidiaries 64.7 Nil 5.8 58.9 3.0 Nil 0.4 55.5 UK Rail joint venture Virgin Rail Group 5.3 0.2 Nil 5.5 13.1 Nil Nil 7.6 UK Bus joint venture Citylink 0.1 Nil Nil 0.1 Nil Nil Nil 0.1 Group overheads 9.9 Nil 0.1 10.0 Nil Nil 0.1 10.1 Restructuring costs 1.5 Nil Nil 1.5 Nil Nil 1.5 Nil Associate Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 225.1 0.2 68.7 156.6 20.5 Nil Nil 136.1 Year ended 30 April 2005 EBITDA Joint venture Amortisation Allocation pre-exceptional interest and Depreciation Operating of intangible Exceptional of restructuring Operating items tax expense profit sub-total assets items costs profit m m m m m m m m UK Bus 132.5 Nil 44.8 87.7 0.5 0.8 0.4 86.0 North America 30.0 Nil 14.5 15.5 0.7 Nil 0.1 14.7 UK Rail subsidiaries 53.4 Nil 3.4 50.0 2.9 Nil 0.8 46.3 UK Rail joint venture Virgin Rail Group 14.2 3.5 Nil 10.7 14.7 Nil Nil 4.0 Group overheads 8.9 Nil 0.1 9.0 Nil 0.6 0.1 9.7 Restructuring costs 1.4 Nil Nil 1.4 Nil Nil 1.4 Nil Associate 0.4 Nil Nil 0.4 Nil Nil Nil 0.4 219.4 3.5 62.8 153.1 18.8 1.4 Nil 132.9 page 52 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 3 Operating costs and exceptional items 2006 2005 m m Materials and consumables 169.9 145.2 Staff costs note 6 782.6 712.8 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment owned assets 56.2 42.3 leased assets under hire purchase agreements and finance leases 12.5 20.5 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 1.9 3.0 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 18.1 16.1 Amortisation of intangible assets customer contracts 2.4 Nil non-compete contracts 2.0 1.1 rail franchise 2.9 2.9 software costs 0.1 0.1 Network Rail charges 147.2 128.2 Operating lease rentals payable Plant and equipment 117.0 116.6 Property 5.7 5.6 Other external charges 316.1 264.9 Total operating costs continuing operations 1,634.6 1,459.3 Included within external charges are fees paid to the Groups auditors, an analysis of which is provided below: 000 000 Audit services statutory audit 680.0 590.0 audit-related regulatory reporting 2.5 72.0 Other assurance services 87.9 71.4 Tax services compliance services Nil 6.4 advisory services 17.0 67.0 Provision of training and related materials 18.0 0.5 Advice re return of capital and related matters Nil 140.0 805.4 947.3 Auditors remuneration audit Company 20.0 20.0 In addition to the above charges included within profit before taxation for continuing businesses, 6.3m 2005: 13.1m was incurred in relation to materials and consumables, 17.5m 2005: 28.2m was incurred for staff costs, 3.0m 2005: 4.5m was incurred for depreciation on owned property, plant and equipment, 3.0m 2005: 4.5m was incurred in relation to repairs and maintenance, 0.1m 2005: 0.1m was incurred for plant and equipment operating lease rental payments and 0.3m 2005: 0.5m was incurred for property operating lease rental payments and 2.9m 2005: 1.3m was incurred in relation to external charges in relation to our disposed New Zealand business.
In addition to the above fees paid to the auditors for the Groups continuing businesses which were included within profit before taxation, Nil 2005: 50,000 was incurred in relation to our disposed New Zealand business comprising Nil 2005: 45,000 for statutory audit services and Nil 2005: 5,000 for other assurance services which is included within profit for the year from discontinued operations.
Fees paid for non-audit services in the UK totalled 111,805 2005: 341,795.
The following items have been treated as exceptional: 2006 2005 m m Gain on sale of New Zealand operations 22.5 Nil Gain on sale of other investments 1.1 Nil Loss in respect of other disposed and closed operations 7.0 7.4 Return of capital costs Nil 0.3 Impairment of minority investment Nil 0.3 Loss re flooding at Carlisle depot Nil 0.8 Gain on sale of properties 0.8 1.3 17.4 7.5 Tax effect of exceptional items 2.8 1.6 20.2 5.9 Stagecoach Group plc | page 53 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 4 Other operating income 2006 2005 m m Miscellaneous revenue 53.8 46.4 Rail franchise support, excluding incentive payments 111.1 91.9 Rail liquidated damages 0.7 2.6 Rail incentive payments 44.1 35.2 209.7 176.1 In addition to the above, other operating income for continuing businesses, 1.2m 2005: 1.9m was recognised in relation to miscellaneous revenue in relation to our disposed New Zealand business.
Miscellaneous revenue comprises revenue incidental to the Groups principal activity.
It includes advertising income, maintenance income and property income.
Rail franchise support is the gross amount of financial support receivable in respect of rail franchises from the DfT and formerly, the Strategic Rail Authority SRA.
Partly offsetting this, the Group recognised amounts payable to the DfT SRA under revenue and profit share agreements for the South West Trains rail franchise totalling 66.7m 2005: 46.0m, which are included within operating costs.
Rail liquidated damages of 0.7m 2005: 2.6m relate to amounts received by South West Trains for the late delivery and reliability of trains.
Rail incentive payments comprise receipts from payments to the DfT SRA in respect of the operational performance of our rail companies measured against benchmarks set by the DfT SRA.
Payments are made to the DfT SRA when performance is worse than the target benchmarks and conversely payments are received from the DfT SRA when performance is better than that set by the benchmarks.
Note 5 Finance costs and income 2006 2005 m m Finance costs: Bank loans, overdraft interest payable and other facility costs 3.6 4.0 Hire purchase and finance lease interest payable 3.3 8.3 Interest payable on notes 14.2 19.7 B share dividends 0.2 n a Unwinding of discount on provisions 3.3 3.2 24.6 35.2 Finance income: Interest receivable 8.3 13.3 Fair value gains on financial instruments not qualifying as hedges interest rate swaps 0.2 Nil foreign exchange forward contracts 0.1 Nil 8.6 13.3 Net finance costs 16.0 21.9 In addition to the above net finance costs for continuing businesses, 0.1m 2005: 0.3m of finance income was recognised in relation to our disposed New Zealand business.
The remaining redeemable B preference shares were redeemed on 30 September 2005.
They attracted a non-cumulative preferential dividend set at 70% of 6 months LIBOR.
The dividend was payable on the nominal amount of 18 pence per B share and was paid twice yearly in arrears on 31 March and 30 September.
As explained in note 1, the Group has opted to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 prospectively from 1 May 2005 without restating prior periods and accordingly, the dividends on B shares of 0.4m for the year ended 30 April 2005 have been deducted directly from equity and are not deducted in arriving at the profit for that year.
page 54 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 6 Staff costs 2006 2005 m m Staff costs Wages and salaries 687.3 624.8 Social security costs 59.8 53.8 Pension costs defined contribution plans 1.0 0.6 Pension costs defined benefit plans current service cost 42.5 38.7 interest cost 57.7 51.8 expected return on assets 65.9 57.5 unwinding of franchise adjustment 1.9 0.7 Share based payment costs 2.1 1.3 782.6 712.8 2006 2005 m m Summary of directors remuneration Aggregate emoluments 2.2 2.0 Gains made by directors on exercise of share options 2.0 0.6 4.2 2.6 In addition to the above staff costs, 17.4m 2005: 28.1m of wages and salaries and 0.1m 2005: 0.1m of share based payment costs were incurred in relation to our disposed New Zealand business.
Further information on directors remuneration, share options, incentive schemes and pensions is contained in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 28 to 34.
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year including executive directors but excluding discontinued operations was as follows: 2006 2005 number number UK operations 24,295 21,105 UK administration and supervisory 2,438 2,266 Overseas 4,649 4,353 31,382 27,724 The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year split by segment was as follows: 2006 2005 number number UK Bus 22,078 18,633 North America 4,649 4,353 UK Rail 4,528 4,615 Central 127 123 31,382 27,724 Stagecoach Group plc | page 55 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 7 Taxation a Analysis of charge in the year 2006 2005 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items the year exceptional items items the year Notes m m m m m m Current tax: UK corporation tax at 30% 2005: 30% 20.2 Nil 20.2 25.3 0.3 25.0 Prior year under provision for corporation tax 1.0 Nil 1.0 0.3 Nil 0.3 Foreign tax current year Nil Nil Nil 0.5 Nil 0.5 Foreign tax adjustments in respect of prior years 2.4 Nil 2.4 0.1 Nil 0.1 Total current tax 23.6 Nil 23.6 26.2 0.3 25.9 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of timing differences 8.5 5.0 3.5 3.8 2.4 1.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.7 Nil 0.7 2.0 Nil 2.0 Total deferred tax 7.8 5.0 2.8 1.8 2.4 0.6 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 31.4 5.0 26.4 28.0 2.7 25.3 b Factors affecting tax charge for the year 2006 2005 m m Profit on ordinary activities before tax 115.0 104.9 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 2005: 30% 34.5 31.5 Effects of: Intangible asset allowances deductions 3.9 4.5 Non-deductible expenditure 6.8 6.3 Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised as deferred tax assets 19.2 11.3 Foreign taxes differences 0.6 0.9 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 2.7 1.6 Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures 1.7 3.2 Total taxation note 7a 26.4 25.3 c Factors that may affect future tax charges There are no temporary differences associated with investments in overseas subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised.
Deductible temporary differences of 306.0m 2005: 370.0m have not been recognised due to restrictions in the availability of their use.
d Tax on items charged to equity 2006 2005 m m Tax on foreign exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 0.2 Nil Tax effect of actuarial gains losses on Group defined benefit pensions schemes 4.2 15.3 Tax effect of share of actuarial gains losses on joint ventures defined benefit pension schemes 1.5 2.7 Tax effect of cash flow hedges Nil Nil Tax effect of share based payments 2.9 Nil Total tax on items charged to equity 3.0 18.0 Tax recognised on the adoption of IAS 39 0.5 Nil page 56 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 8 Dividends 2006 2005 m m Amounts recognised as distributions in the year Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend paid of 2.0p per share for the year ended 30 April 2004 26.5 Interim dividend paid of 1.0p per share for the year ended 30 April 2005 10.7 Final dividend paid of 2.3p per share for the year ended 30 April 2005 24.6 Interim dividend paid of 1.1p per share for the year ended 30 April 2006 12.0 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year 36.6 37.2 Dividends on redeemable B preference shares Accrued for the period n a 0.4 36.6 37.6 Dividends proposed but neither paid nor included as liabilities in the financial statements Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend paid of 2.3p per share for the year ended 30 April 2005 24.4 Final dividend proposed of 2.6p per share for the year ended 30 April 2006 28.4 28.4 24.4 The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended 30 April 2006 is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
If approved, the final dividend will be payable on 4 October 2006 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 1 September 2006.
The dividends proposed and the actual dividends recognised as distributions differ slightly due to the number of shares at the balance sheet date being different to that at the record date.
The redeemable B preference shares attracted a non-cumulative preferential dividend set at 70% of 6 months LIBOR.
On adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 May 2005, the preference shares are reclassified as debt rather than equity and subsequently any dividends accrued since that date are classified as finance costs and are disclosed in note 5.
Note 9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders net of any dividends on preference shares not already deducted in arriving at the reported profit by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding any ordinary shares held by employee share ownership trusts and not ranking for dividend.
The diluted earnings per share was calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares in relation to share options and long-term incentive plans.
In respect of share options, a calculation was done to determine the number of ordinary shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined based on the average annual market share price of the Companys ordinary shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options.
The number of ordinary shares calculated as above is compared with the number of ordinary shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share options.
The difference is added to the denominator as an issue of ordinary shares for no consideration and no adjustment is made to earnings numerator.
2006 2005 Basic weighted average ordinary share capital number of shares, million 1,075.8 1,154.5 Dilutive ordinary shares Executive Share Option Scheme 14.7 20.0 Employee SAYE Scheme 0.8 3.6 LTIP Nil Nil Diluted weighted average ordinary share capital number of shares, million 1,091.3 1,178.1 Stagecoach Group plc | page 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 9 Earnings per share continued 2006 2005 m m Profit after taxation 115.4 86.9 Dividends on B shares n a 0.4 Profit after taxation and dividends on B shares for basic EPS calculation 115.4 86.5 Amortisation of intangible assets 20.5 18.8 Exceptional items see note 3 17.4 7.5 Tax effect of amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items 5.0 2.7 Profit for adjusted EPS calculation 113.5 110.1 Earnings per Earnings per share share pence pence Basic 10.7 7.5 Adjusted basic 10.6 9.5 Diluted 10.6 7.3 Adjusted diluted 10.4 9.3 Earnings per share before the amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items is calculated after adding back intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items after taking account of taxation, as shown on the consolidated income statement on page 36.
This has been presented to allow shareholders to gain a clearer understanding of the underlying performance.
The basic and diluted earnings per share can be further analysed as follows: 2006 2005 Weighted Weighted average number Earnings average number Earnings Earnings of shares per share Earnings of shares per share m Million Pence m Million Pence Basic Continuing operations 88.6 1,075.8 8.2p 79.2 1,154.5 6.9p Discontinued operations 26.8 1,075.8 2.5p 7.3 1,154.5 0.6p 115.4 1,075.8 10.7p 86.5 1,154.5 7.5p Adjusted basic Continuing operations 109.2 1,075.8 10.2p 102.8 1,154.5 8.9p Discontinued operations 4.3 1,075.8 0.4p 7.3 1,154.5 0.6p 113.5 1,075.8 10.6p 110.1 1,154.5 9.5p Diluted Continuing operations 88.6 1,091.3 8.1p 79.2 1,178.1 6.7p Discontinued operations 26.8 1,091.3 2.5p 7.3 1,178.1 0.6p 115.4 1,091.3 10.6p 86.5 1,178.1 7.3p Adjusted diluted Continuing operations 109.2 1,091.3 10.0p 102.8 1,178.1 8.7p Discontinued operations 4.3 1,091.3 0.4p 7.3 1,178.1 0.6p 113.5 1,091.3 10.4p 110.1 1,178.1 9.3p The following executive share options could potentially dilute basic earnings per share in the future, but were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share for the years ended 30 April 2005 and 30 April 2006 as they would have been anti-dilutive that is, their inclusion would have increased earnings per share due to the exercise price exceeding the average share price for the year.
There have been no ordinary share transactions between the balance sheet date and date of approval of this report that would have significantly changed the number of ordinary shares outstanding at 30 April 2006. page 58 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 10 Goodwill 2006 2005 m m Cost At beginning of year 93.6 99.4 Acquired through business combinations 20.7 Nil Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings 19.0 1.3 Translation adjustment 4.8 4.5 At end of year 100.1 93.6 Accumulated impairment losses At beginning and end of year Nil Nil Net book value at beginning of year 93.6 99.4 Net book value at end of year 100.1 93.6 The disposed goodwill included within note 17 includes Nil 2005: 3.4m of goodwill that was held in a disposal group prior to the business being sold and is threfore not included in the table above.
Details of acquisitions and disposals made during the year are contained within notes 16 and 17.
During the year, goodwill was reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
No impairment charges 2005: Nil arose as a result of this review.
Goodwill was allocated to individual cash generating units for this impairment testing on the basis of the Groups operations.
The carrying value of goodwill by cash generating unit is as follows: 2006 2005 m m UK Bus 20.8 0.3 North America 79.3 75.4 New Zealand n a 17.9 100.1 93.6 disposed of during the year The assumptions used for the cash generating units included within the impairment reviews are as follows: Growth rate used to extrapolate Discount rate applied to cash flows beyond five year period of cash flow projections management plan 2006 2005 2006 2005 UK Bus 10.7% 10.7% 2.2% 2.2% North America 9.0% 9.0% 2.75% 2.75% New Zealand n a 11.6% n a 2.75% New Zealand was disposed of during the year ended 30 April 2006 therefore no impairment review has been undertaken for that year The discount rates represent the risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital appropriate for the cash flow generated.
The calculation of value in use for each cash generating unit is most sensitive to the assumptions over gross margin, discount rates, and the growth rate.
The assumptions used are considered to be consistent with the historical performance of each unit and to be realistically achievable in the light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 59 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 11 Other intangible assets Year ended 30 April 2006 Customer Non-compete Rail Software contracts contracts franchise costs Total m m m m m Cost At beginning of year Nil 6.6 8.1 0.3 15.0 Acquired through business combinations 14.7 Nil Nil Nil 14.7 Additions Nil 0.2 Nil 0.4 0.6 Translation adjustment Nil 0.2 Nil Nil 0.2 At end of year 14.7 7.0 8.1 0.7 30.5 Accumulated amortisation At beginning of year Nil 2.8 2.9 0.1 5.8 Amortisation for year 2.4 2.0 2.9 0.1 7.4 At end of year 2.4 4.8 5.8 0.2 13.2 Net book value at beginning of year Nil 3.8 5.2 0.2 9.2 Net book value at end of year 12.3 2.2 2.3 0.5 17.3 Intangible assets relate to customer contracts purchased as part of the Groups business combinations, non-compete contracts, the right to operate UK Rail franchises and software costs.
The amortisation of each of the above intangible assets is included within the operating costs line of the income statement.
Intangible assets arising during the year including those acquired through business combinations and the amortisation periods are as follows: Amortisation Intangible period additions years m Subsidiaries UK Bus business combinations additions 5 14.7 Subsidiaries North America additions 2-5 0.2 Subsidiaries UK Rail additions 2-5 0.4 15.3 Year ended 30 April 2005 Non-compete Rail Software contracts franchise costs Total m m m m Cost At beginning of year 3.9 8.1 Nil 12.0 Acquired through business combinations 3.6 Nil Nil 3.6 Additions Nil Nil 0.3 0.3 Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings and other businesses 0.7 Nil Nil 0.7 Translation adjustment 0.2 Nil Nil 0.2 At end of year 6.6 8.1 0.3 15.0 Accumulated amortisation At beginning of year 1.9 Nil Nil 1.9 Amortisation for year 1.1 2.9 0.1 4.1 Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings and other businesses 0.2 Nil Nil 0.2 At end of year 2.8 2.9 0.1 5.8 Net book value at beginning of year 2.0 8.1 Nil 10.1 Net book value at end of year 3.8 5.2 0.2 9.2 page 60 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 12 Property, plant and equipment Year ended 30 April 2006 Land and PSVs and buildings other assets Total m m m Cost At beginning of year 200.4 1,005.4 1,205.8 Additions 6.8 97.0 103.8 Acquired through business combinations 17.1 29.4 46.5 Disposals 5.0 30.9 35.9 Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings and other businesses 7.9 101.8 109.7 Translation adjustment 2.2 20.4 22.6 At end of year 213.6 1,019.5 1,233.1 Depreciation At beginning of year 3.4 508.2 511.6 Charge 4.7 67.0 71.7 Disposals 0.9 23.7 24.6 Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings and other businesses 1.1 43.1 44.2 Translation adjustment 0.7 9.1 9.8 At end of year 6.8 517.5 524.3 Net book value at beginning of year 197.0 497.2 694.2 Net book value at end of year 206.8 502.0 708.8 Included in the above are: Assets on hire purchase Nil 95.3 95.3 Leased PSV assets Nil 45.1 45.1 Short leasehold land and buildings 2.4 Nil 2.4 Long leasehold land and buildings 29.4 Nil 29.4 Heritable and freehold land amounting to 109.3m 2005: 98.2m has not been depreciated.
Depreciation of 12.5m 2005: 20.5m has been charged in the year in respect of assets held under hire purchase or finance lease agreements.
Year ended 30 April 2005 Land and PSVs and buildings other assets Total m m m Cost At beginning of year 190.4 967.6 1,158.0 Additions 14.9 88.6 103.5 Acquired through business combinations Nil 1.3 1.3 Disposals 3.6 46.6 50.2 Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings and other businesses Nil Nil Nil Translation adjustment 1.3 5.5 6.8 At end of year 200.4 1,005.4 1,205.8 Depreciation At beginning of year 2.5 484.4 486.9 Charge 4.1 63.2 67.3 Disposals 2.8 35.3 38.1 Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings and other businesses Nil Nil Nil Translation adjustment 0.4 4.1 4.5 At end of year 3.4 508.2 511.6 Net book value at beginning of year 187.9 483.2 671.1 Net book value at end of year 197.0 497.2 694.2 Included in the above are: Assets on hire purchase Nil 124.3 124.3 Leased PSV assets Nil 2.6 2.6 Short leasehold land and buildings 1.0 Nil 1.0 Long leasehold land and buildings 20.2 Nil 20.2 During the year ended 30 April 2005, various businesses in North America were disposed of.
As a result, property, plant and equipment with a net book value of 0.6m see note 17 were disposed of.
These are not included in the above table as these assets were transferred to a disposal group on transition to IFRS, being 1 May 2004.
IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment, requires the initial measurement of property, plant and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The exemption in IFRS 1 allow entities to use a value that is not depreciated cost as deemed cost on transition to IFRS.
One of the options is to use fair value of the item at the date of transition to IFRS and allocate this as deemed cost.
Certain of our UK Bus divisions land and buildings have been valued at the date of transition to IFRS, being 1 May 2004, on the basis of existing use value by independent qualified valuers.
This resulted in an increase of 53.9m to the carrying value of those land and buildings at 1 May 2004.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 61 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 13 Interests in joint ventures The principal joint ventures are: Nominal Value Number of of share capital Country of shares in issue in issue at % interest Incorporation at 30 April 2006 30 April 2006 held Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited United Kingdom 34,780 3,478 49% Scottish Citylink Limited United Kingdom 1,643,312 1,643,312 35% The Group has two joint ventures, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited VRG and Scottish Citylink Limited Citylink.
Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited is the holding company of Virgin Rail Group Limited, which in turn is the holding company of CrossCountry Trains Limited and West Coast Trains Limited.
The Virgin Rail Group Holdings shareholders agreement provides for joint decision making on key matters and equal representation on the Board.
As a consequence, the investment has been accounted for as a joint venture.
As part of the original acquisition, the Group acquired a 20m shareholder loan to Virgin Rail Group Limited, now a subsidiary of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited.
The shareholder loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 10% per annum.
10m of the original 20m loan was repaid on 28 April 2000, 3.3m was repaid on 23 September 2004 and 3.4m was repaid on 27 September 2004.
Unless otherwise agreed by the shareholders of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, Virgin Rail Group Limited is restricted from paying dividends until any loans payable to the Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited shareholders have been repaid.
With the agreement of its shareholders, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited has declared a dividend of 15.7m in respect of its financial year ended 4 March 2006.
The Directors undertook an impairment review as at 30 April 2006 of the carrying value of the Groups 49% joint venture interest in VRG and concluded that there had been no impairment loss.
The discount rate applied to the cash flow projections for the impairment review was 10.7% and the cash flows were based on the business plans for both of VRGs West Coast and CrossCountry franchises, which cover the period until the end of each franchise.
Stagecoach acquired 35% of the share capital of Citylink on 12 September 2005 in return for transferring certain rights to the Motorvator and megabus.
The Citylink shareholder agreement provides for joint and unanimous decision making on all key matters and therefore the investment has been accounted for as a joint venture.
Total Total VRG Citylink 2006 2005 m m m m Cost At beginning of year 70.8 Nil 70.8 96.6 1 May 2005 IAS 32 39 adjustments 3.3 Nil 3.3 Nil At beginning of year, restated 67.5 Nil 67.5 96.6 Additions Nil 3.1 3.1 Nil Share of recognised profits 5.5 0.1 5.6 10.7 Share of actuarial gains losses on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax 3.7 Nil 3.7 6.4 Dividends received Nil Nil Nil 23.5 Loan repayment Nil Nil Nil 6.7 Rounding 0.1 Nil 0.1 0.1 At end of year 76.6 3.2 79.8 70.8 Amounts written off At beginning of year 14.7 Nil 14.7 Nil Goodwill charged during year 13.1 Nil 13.1 14.7 At end of year 27.8 Nil 27.8 14.7 Net book value at beginning of year 56.1 Nil 56.1 96.6 Net book value at beginning of year, restated 52.8 Nil 52.8 96.6 Net book value at end of year 48.8 3.2 52.0 56.1 page 62 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 13 Interests in joint ventures continued The Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures is analysed below: Total Total VRG Citylink 2006 2005 m m m m Non-current assets 24.9 0.3 25.2 16.2 Current assets 140.7 1.4 142.1 116.3 Non-current liabilities 11.1 Nil 11.1 21.3 Current liabilities 135.4 1.1 136.5 101.2 Share of net assets 19.1 0.6 19.7 10.0 Goodwill 29.7 2.6 32.3 42.8 Shareholder loan notes n a n a n a 3.3 48.8 3.2 52.0 56.1 On transition to IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 May 2005, the shareholder loan notes of 3.3m receivable from VRG were reclassified as financial assets and therefore as at 30 April 2006 were included within the current trade and other receivables line on the balance sheet.
The Groups share of post tax results from joint ventures is analysed below: Total Total VRG Citylink 2006 2005 m m m m Revenue 357.4 3.8 361.2 315.2 Expenses 352.1 3.7 355.8 301.0 Operating profit 5.3 0.1 5.4 14.2 Finance income net 1.7 Nil 1.7 1.7 Taxation 1.5 Nil 1.5 5.2 Share of profit of joint ventures 5.5 0.1 5.6 10.7 A net actuarial gain after tax of 3.7m 2005: loss of 6.4m was recognised in addition to the above in relation to VRGs defined benefit pension schemes.
Note 14 Interests in associate 2006 2005 m m Cost and net book value At the beginning of year 1.0 1.4 Share of recognised losses Nil 0.4 At end of year 1.0 1.0 Stagecoach Group plc | page 63 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 14 Interests in associate continued The principal associate is: Nominal Value Number of of share capital Country of shares in issue in issue at % interest Incorporation at 30 April 2006 30 April 2006 held Prepayment Cards Limited United Kingdom 340,000 340,000 23.5% The Groups share of the net assets of its associate is analysed below: 2006 2005 m m Non-current assets 4.0 4.1 Current assets 0.4 0.3 Non-current liabilities 0.5 Nil Current liabilities 4.5 5.0 Share of net liabilities 0.6 0.6 Goodwill 1.6 1.6 1.0 1.0 The Groups share of post tax results from its associate is analysed below: 2006 2005 m m Revenue 0.2 0.3 Expenses 0.2 0.7 Share of loss from interest in associate Nil 0.4 The finance costs and taxation of the associate were less than 0.1m for each year presented.
Note 15 Available for sale and other investments 2006 2005 m m Cost At the beginning of year 2.1 2.3 Additions 2.8 0.4 Acquired through business combinations 0.2 Nil Net fair value gains 1.9 Nil Disposals Nil 0.6 Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings 2.6 Nil Translation adjustment 0.1 Nil At end of year 4.5 2.1 Amounts written off At the beginning of the year 0.3 Nil Impairment charge for year Nil 0.3 At end of year 0.3 0.3 Net book value at beginning of year 1.8 2.3 Net book value at end of year 4.2 1.8 Investments above include 3.3m in relation to the fair value of the Groups investment in Oxonica plc which is listed on the Alternative Investment Market AIM in the UK.
The Group exercised options to acquire 2,035,485 ordinary shares during the year and the fair value of these shares is based on the quoted market offer price at 30 April 2006.
The Groups holding in Oxonica plc shares at 30 April 2006 was 4.9% of the total issued share capital.
page 64 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 16 Acquisitions During the year 4 acquisitions of wholly owned subsidiaries have been concluded for a total consideration of 29.7m in cash and 4.5m in shares.
The fair value of the net assets acquired was 13.5m giving rise to goodwill of 20.7m which has been capitalised.
Furthermore a joint venture Citylink was formed between Stagecoach and ComfortDelGro during the year details of which are contained in note 13.
The aggregate fair value of the net assets acquired of wholly owned subsidiaries is as follows: UK Bus Total Total Glenvale Traction Other 2006 2005 m m m m m Fair value to Group Intangible fixed assets excluding goodwill 0.6 14.1 Nil 14.7 3.6 Property, plant and equipment 6.5 37.9 2.1 46.5 1.3 Other net liabilities 13.5 34.2 Nil 47.7 0.1 Total liabilities assets 6.4 17.8 2.1 13.5 4.8 Goodwill 9.8 8.6 2.3 20.7 Nil Consideration 3.4 26.4 4.4 34.2 4.8 Add: Deferred consideration in respect of businesses acquired in prior years Nil Nil 0.1 0.1 1.1 Less: Shares issued Nil 4.5 Nil 4.5 Nil Less: Net cash and cash equivalents acquired 2.2 0.1 Nil 2.1 Nil Net cash outflow 1.2 22.0 4.5 27.7 5.9 Full details of the significant acquisitions of Glenvale Transport Limited and Traction Group Limited are below.
The Group acquired some other small businesses during the year in the UK and North America which are reflected in the other column above.
There were no adjustments to goodwill arising during the year ended 30 April 2006 which related to prior year acquisitions 2005: Nil.
Glenvale Transport Limited Initial book Restatement Fair value to value to fair value the Group m m m Existing goodwill of Glenvale 5.2 5.2 Nil Intangible fixed assets excluding goodwill Nil 0.6 0.6 Property, plant and equipment 5.8 0.7 6.5 Inventories 0.4 0.3 0.1 Trade and other receivables 1.4 0.2 1.2 Cash and cash equivalents 2.2 Nil 2.2 Trade and other payables 2.4 0.6 3.0 Current tax liabilities 1.2 0.8 0.4 Borrowings 10.0 Nil 10.0 Deferred tax asset 1.2 0.1 1.3 Provisions 1.2 1.2 2.4 Retirement benefit obligations 2.5 Nil 2.5 Net liabilities acquired 1.1 5.3 6.4 Goodwill 9.8 Total consideration settled in cash 3.4 Less: Net cash and cash equivalents acquired 2.2 Net cash outflow 1.2 The Group acquired the entire share capital of Glenvale Transport Limited Glenvale on 12 July 2005.
The consideration paid for the shares was 3.4m in cash and the Group assumed the net debt of Glenvale at acquisition totalling 7.8m.
The fair value of the net liabilities acquired totalled 6.4m including the 7.8m of assumed net debt resulting in goodwill of 9.8m.
In the period from acquisition to 30 April 2006, Glenvale contributed 17.4m to revenue and made an operating loss of 2.3m.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenues for the year ended 30 April 2006 would have been 4.8m higher and Group profit attributable to equity holders of the parent would have been 0.2m lower.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 65 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 16 Acquisitions continued Initial book Restatement Fair value to Traction Group Limited value to fair value the Group m m m Intangible fixed assets excluding goodwill Nil 14.1 14.1 Property, plant and equipment 42.1 4.2 37.9 Inventories 0.9 0.2 0.7 Trade and other receivables 4.7 Nil 4.7 Cash and cash equivalents 5.7 Nil 5.7 Trade and other payables 8.7 1.1 9.8 Current tax assets 0.1 0.1 0.2 Borrowings bank overdrafts 5.8 Nil 5.8 Borrowings other 10.9 Nil 10.9 Derivative financial instruments Nil 2.8 2.8 Deferred tax assets 0.9 0.4 1.3 Provisions Nil 4.1 4.1 Retirement benefit obligations 19.0 Nil 19.0 Net assets acquired 10.0 7.8 17.8 Goodwill 8.6 Total consideration 26.4 Net consideration 26.0 Acquisition costs 0.4 Total consideration 26.4 Less: shares issued 4.5 Less: Net cash and cash equivalents acquired 0.1 Net cash outflow 22.0 On 14 December 2005, Stagecoach acquired the entire share capital of Traction Group Limited Traction.
The consideration paid for the shares was 26.0m excluding 0.4m of directly attributable costs, which was satisfied by 21.5m in cash and the issue of 4,022,070 Stagecoach ordinary shares of 12 19th pence each.
The share price used to value the shares issued as consideration was 1.13.
Stagecoach has assumed Tractions net debt of 11.0m.
The fair value of the net assets acquired totalled 17.8m including the 11.0m of assumed net debt and acquisition costs of 0.4m were incurred resulting in goodwill of 8.6m.
In the period from acquisition to 30 April 2006, Traction contributed 21.1m to revenue and made an operating profit of 0.4m.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenues for the year ended 30 April 2006 would have been 36.7m higher and Group profit attributable to equity holders of the parent would have been 1.3m higher.
page 66 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 17 Disposals The Group disposed of its New Zealand operations on 29 November 2005 to Infratil Limited.
The disposal was believed by the Directors to be the best way to maximise shareholder value from the New Zealand operations.
The results of the discontinued New Zealand operations that have been included in the consolidated income statement were as follows: 2006 2005 m m Revenue 37.4 59.0 Operating costs 33.1 52.2 Other operating income 1.2 1.9 Operating profit 5.5 8.7 Finance income 0.1 0.3 Taxation 1.3 1.7 Profit for the year before gain on disposal 4.3 7.3 Gain on disposal 22.5 Nil Profit for the year from discontinued operations 26.8 7.3 A gain of 22.5m arose on the disposal of the New Zealand operations, being the proceeds of disposal less the carrying amount of the disposed business net assets and goodwill at the date of disposal.
No tax arose as a result of this gain.
In respect of the subsidiary undertakings that were disposed of during the year, the net assets disposed of were as follows: 2006 2005 New Zealand Other Total Total m m m m Goodwill 19.0 Nil 19.0 4.7 Other intangible assets Nil Nil Nil 0.5 Property, plant and equipment 64.1 1.4 65.5 0.6 Investments 2.6 Nil 2.6 Nil Cash and cash equivalents 6.0 Nil 6.0 Nil Other current assets 6.3 Nil 6.3 4.5 Other liabilities 13.2 Nil 13.2 0.3 Provisions 4.4 Nil 4.4 Nil Net assets disposed 80.4 1.4 81.8 10.0 Provisions and accruals for future costs associated with the disposals 4.9 9.6 14.5 7.9 Release of provision against receivable on prior year disposals Nil 1.4 1.4 1.7 Foreign exchange recycled on disposal 3.9 Nil 3.9 Nil Profit loss on disposal 22.5 7.0 15.5 7.4 Net consideration 103.9 2.6 106.5 8.8 Total consideration 107.0 2.6 109.6 8.8 Less: disposal costs 3.1 3.1 Nil Net consideration 103.9 2.6 106.5 8.8 Less: net cash disposed of 6.0 Nil 6.0 Nil Less: deferred consideration outstanding Less: net of provision for doubtful debts Nil Nil Nil 1.7 Net cash inflow: disposals in year 97.9 2.6 100.5 7.1 Net cash inflow: deferred consideration in respect of businesses disposed in prior years Nil 3.9 3.9 7.6 97.9 6.5 104.4 14.7 Stagecoach Group plc | page 67 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 18 Principal subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings ordinary shares 100% owned except where shown as at 30 April 2006 were: Country of registration or Company incorporation Principal activity Stagecoach Transport Holdings plc Scotland Holding company SCOTO Limited England Holding company SCUSI Limited England Holding company Precis 1628 Limited England Holding company The Integrated Transport Company Limited Scotland Holding company Stagecoach South Ltd England Bus and coach operator Stagecoach North West Ltd England Bus and coach operator East Midland Motor Services Ltd England Bus and coach operator Stagecoach Scotland Ltd Scotland Bus and coach operator National Transport Tokens Ltd 99.9% England Transport tokens East Kent Road Car Company Ltd England Bus and coach operator Stagecoach West Ltd England Bus and coach operator PSV Claims Bureau Ltd England Claims handling Busways Travel Services Ltd England Bus and coach operator South East London and Kent Bus Co Ltd England Bus and coach operator East London Bus and Coach Co Ltd England Bus and coach operator Cleveland Transit Ltd England Bus and coach operator Cambus Ltd England Bus and coach operator Greater Manchester Buses South Ltd England Bus and coach operator Stagecoach Services Limited England Provision of accounting and payroll services The Yorkshire Traction Group Ltd England Bus and coach operator South West Trains Ltd England Train operating company Gray Line New York Tours Inc United States Bus and coach operator Trentway-Wager Inc Canada Bus and coach operator All companies operate in the countries shown above and, except for Stagecoach Transport Holdings plc, are indirectly held.
The companies listed above include all those which principally affect the results and assets of the Group.
The Group considers any subsidiary that has revenue greater than 25.0m, profit before interest and taxation greater than 2.5m, gross assets greater than 25.0m or gross liabilities greater than 25.0m to be a principal subsidiary.
These thresholds exclude any intercompany amounts and investments in subsidiaries.
A full list of the Companys subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the next annual return of the Company.
Note 19 Inventories 2006 2005 m m Parts and consumables 13.2 12.5 All inventories are carried at cost less a provision to take account of slow moving and obsolete items.
Changes in the provision for slow moving and obsolete stock were as follows: 2006 2005 m m At beginning of year 1.7 8.9 Charged to income 0.1 0.2 Amount utilised Nil 1.1 Acquired through business combinations 0.2 Nil Disposal of businesses Nil 6.3 At end of year 2.0 1.7 There was no material write down of inventories during the current or prior year.
The provision of 8.9m as at 1 May 2004 predominantly related to a provision against the carrying value of taxicabs held in inventory.
All of the remaining businesses that held taxicabs in inventory were disposed of during the year ended 30 April 2005 and the provision reduced accordingly.
page 68 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 20 Trade and other receivables 2006 2005 m m Non-current: Other receivables 1.6 6.7 1.6 6.7 Current: Trade receivables 82.6 77.2 Less: provision for impairment 2.8 3.0 Trade receivables net 79.8 74.2 Other receivables 15.6 22.9 Prepayments and accrued income 71.1 61.3 VAT and other government receivables 10.1 9.8 Foreign tax receivable Nil 1.0 Loan to joint venture 3.3 n a 179.9 169.2 Note 21 Cash and cash equivalents 2006 2005 m m Cash at bank and in hand 198.5 140.0 At 30 April 2006, the effective interest rate on cash at bank and in hand was 4.6% 2005: 4.6% and these were primarily overnight deposits having an average maturity of one day 2005: one day.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, the cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: 2006 2005 m m Cash and bank balances 198.5 140.0 Bank overdrafts note 23 0.2 1.5 198.3 138.5 Note 22 Trade and other payables 2006 2005 m m Current: Trade payables 104.4 98.9 Accruals and deferred income 216.7 241.3 Deferred grant income 1.4 0.6 PAYE and NIC payable 18.8 16.8 341.3 357.6 Non-current: Deferred grant income 5.5 3.2 Other payables 3.7 4.9 9.2 8.1 Stagecoach Group plc | page 69 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Borrowings 2006 2005 m m Current: Bank overdrafts 0.2 1.5 Bank loans and loan notes 37.7 104.9 Hire purchase and lease obligations 28.4 20.1 66.3 126.5 Non-current: Bank loans and loan notes 11.4 7.2 US Dollar 8.625% Notes 206.7 174.9 Hire purchase and lease obligations 73.1 46.0 291.2 228.1 Total borrowings 357.5 354.6 The minimum lease payments under hire purchase and lease obligations fall due as follows: 2006 2005 m m Not later than one year 31.7 22.9 Later than one year but not more than five years 70.8 39.9 More than five years 8.6 12.2 111.1 75.0 Future finance charges on hire purchase and finance leases 9.6 8.9 Present value of hire purchase and finance lease liabilities 101.5 66.1 The Group in its ordinary course of business enters into hire purchase and finance lease agreements to fund or re-finance the purchase of vehicles.
The lease agreements are typically for periods of 5 to 10 years and do not have contingent rent or escalation clauses.
The agreements have industry standard terms and do not contain any restrictions on dividends, additional debt or further leasing.
a US Dollar 8.625% Notes On 9 November 1999, the Group issued US$500m of 8.625% Notes due in 2009.
Interest on the Notes is payable six monthly in arrears.
Unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled, the Notes will be redeemed at their principal amount on 15 November 2009.
The cumulative par value of Notes repurchased was US$165.9m at 30 April 2006 2005: US$165.9m.
The Notes were issued at 99.852% of their principal amount.
The consolidated carrying value of the Notes at 30 April 2006 was 206.7m 2005: 174.9m, after taking account of the notes purchased by the Group, the discount on issue, issue costs, accrued interest and the gain on close out of various interest rate swaps previously used to manage the interest rate profile of the Notes.
page 70 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 23 Borrowings continued b Borrowings are repayable as follows: 2006 2005 m m On demand or within 1 year Bank overdraft 0.2 1.5 Bank loans and loan notes 37.7 104.9 Hire purchase and lease obligations 28.4 20.1 Within 1-2 years Bank loans and loan notes 0.8 0.7 Hire purchase and lease obligations 25.2 12.1 Within 2-5 years Bank loans and loan notes 10.6 6.5 US Dollar 8.625% Notes 206.7 174.9 Hire purchase and lease obligations 39.7 22.3 Over 5 years Hire purchase and lease obligations 8.2 11.6 Total borrowings 357.5 354.6 Less current maturities 66.3 126.5 Non-current portion of borrowings 291.2 228.1 Interest terms on UK borrowings except loan notes are at annual rates between 0.35% and 0.65% over Bank of Scotland base rate or equivalent LIBOR rates.
Interest terms on overseas borrowings are at annual rates of 0.5% above applicable local market borrowing rates.
Interest on loan notes are at three months LIBOR or fixed interest.
Loan notes amounting to 37.7m 2005: 38.3m are backed by guarantees provided under Group banking facilities.
The loan notes have been classified by reference to the earliest date on which the loan note holders can request redemptions.
UK bank loans, overdrafts and US$ Notes are unsecured.
c Interest rate and currency profile of financial liabilities The interest rate and currency profile of the financial liabilities of the Group on which interest is paid at 30 April 2006 was as follows: Weighted average Weighted average period for which Currency Floating rate Fixed rate Total fixed interest rate rate is fixed m m m % Years Sterling 139.2 Nil 139.2 n a n a US Dollar Nil 206.7 206.7 6.7% 3.5 Canadian Dollar 11.6 Nil 11.6 n a n a Gross borrowings 150.8 206.7 357.5 6.7% 3.5 The figures shown in the above table take into account the close out of various interest rate swaps previously used to manage the interest rate profile of borrowings.
The floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at rates fixed in advance for periods ranging from one to three months based on market rates.
The Groups policies on managing interest rate risk and currency risk are explained in note 27.
The interest rate profile and currency profile of the financial liabilities of the Group on which interest is paid at 30 April 2005 was as follows: Weighted average Weighted average period for which Currency Floating rate Fixed rate Total fixed interest rate rate is fixed m m m % Years Sterling 170.9 31.4 202.3 6.8% 4.5 US Dollar 1.5 143.5 145.0 6.8% 4.5 Canadian Dollar 7.3 Nil 7.3 n a n a Gross borrowings 179.7 174.9 354.6 6.8% 4.5 Stagecoach Group plc | page 71 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Borrowings continued c Interest rate and currency profile of financial liabilities continued The maturity profile of the Groups borrowings was as follows: 2006 2005 m m Expiring within one year 66.3 126.5 Expiring in more than one year but less than two years 26.0 12.8 Expiring in more than two years but less than five years 257.0 203.7 Expiring beyond five years 8.2 11.6 Gross borrowings 357.5 354.6 d Interest rate and currency profile of financial assets The Groups financial assets on which floating interest is receivable comprise cash deposits and cash in hand of 198.5m 2005: 140.0m.
The cash deposits comprise deposits placed on money market at call, seven day, monthly rates and cash deposited with counterparty banks at commercially negotiated interest rates.
The currency analysis is as follows: Floating rate 2006 2005 m m Currency Sterling 186.8 124.5 US Dollar 11.7 10.3 New Zealand Dollar Nil 4.7 Canadian Dollar Nil 0.5 Cash at bank and in hand 198.5 140.0 Financial assets on which no interest is receivable total 4.2m 2005: 1.8m and comprise other investments of 4.2m 2005: 1.8m.
These assets are denominated in Sterling 3.9m 2005: 0.5m, US dollars 0.3m 2005: 0.1m and others Nil 2005: 1.2m.
Net financial assets amounts due after one year from balance sheet date on which fixed interest is receivable total 0.9m 2005: 5.4m and comprise US$ denominated loan notes receivable.
The net amount of 0.9m 2005: 5.4m includes a provision for impairment of 1.3m 2005: 2.4m.
The net financial assets have a weighted average interest rate of 8.9% 2005: 7.8% and an average maturity of 2.8 years 2005: 3.5 years.
Trade and other receivables on which no interest has been received are excluded from the disclosures above.
e Currency exposures The Groups objective in managing currency borrowings and net exposures arising from its investments in net assets of overseas subsidiaries is to maintain a low cost of borrowing and to retain some potential for currency related appreciation whilst partially hedging against currency depreciation.
Foreign currency borrowings are taken out to provide for or to hedge against foreign net investments.
Gains and losses arising from currency borrowings taken out to provide a hedge against foreign net investments are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The Group reviews and considers hedging of actual and forecast foreign exchange transactional exposures up to one year forward.
At 30 April 2006 and 30 April 2005 there were no material net transactional foreign currency exposures.
f Borrowing facilities The Group had the following undrawn committed banking and hire purchase facilities 2006 2005 m m Expiring within one year 46.4 43.8 Expiring in more than one year but no more than two years Nil Nil Expiring beyond two years 302.8 317.6 349.2 361.4 page 72 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 24 Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Net The Group movement in deferred tax during the year was as follows: liabilities asset m m m Beginning of year 5.5 4.1 1.4 Provided during year: Charge credit to income statement 7.1 4.3 2.8 Acquired through business combinations 2.5 Nil 2.5 Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings and other businesses 6.8 Nil 6.8 Charge to equity 1.9 Nil 1.9 End of year 5.2 8.4 3.2 The deferred tax liability due after more than one year is 5.2m 2005: 5.5m.
The deferred tax asset due after more than one year is 3.0m 2005: Nil.
The deferred tax asset of 8.4m has been recognised in respect of tax losses.
Based on tax workings scheduling the reversal of the asset, it is expected to be utilised over the next three years.
Deferred taxation is calculated as follows: 2006 2005 m m Accelerated capital allowances 90.4 89.8 Pension temporary differences 64.3 63.8 Short-term temporary differences 29.3 24.6 3.2 1.4 The amount of deferred tax recognised in the income statement by type of temporary difference is as follows: m Accelerated capital allowances 4.3 Pension temporary differences 2.0 Short-term temporary differences 3.5 2.8 2006 2005 Note 25 Provisions m m Token redemption provision 20.9 25.5 Insurance provisions 83.2 63.6 Environmental provisions 3.1 3.9 Provision for onerous contracts 2.7 Nil 109.9 93.0 The token redemption provision relates to tokens issued to third parties to be redeemed as payment for transportation services.
The insurance provisions relate to insurance reserves on incurred accidents up to 30 April in each year where claims have not been settled.
These are based on actuarial reviews and prior claims history.
The environmental provisions relate to legal or constructive obligations to undertake environmental work, such as an obligation to rectify land which has been contaminated by fuel tanks or to eliminate the presence of asbestos.
The provision is based on the estimated cost of undertaking the work required.
Provisions for onerous contracts relate to contracts that have been acquired through business combinations that have been identified as loss making.
The Group movement during the year was as follows: Token redemption Insurance Environmental Provisions for provision provisions provisions onerous contracts Total m m m m m Beginning of year 25.5 63.6 3.9 Nil 93.0 Provided during year Nil 50.4 0.2 Nil 50.6 Unwinding of discount Nil 3.3 Nil Nil 3.3 Utilised in the year Nil 37.7 1.5 1.1 40.3 Arising on sale of tokens during year 7.2 Nil Nil Nil 7.2 Acquired through business combinations Nil 2.3 0.4 3.8 6.5 Redemption of tokens 11.8 Nil Nil Nil 11.8 Translation differences Nil 1.3 0.1 Nil 1.4 End of year 20.9 83.2 3.1 2.7 109.9 30 April 2006: Current 13.4 44.9 3.1 1.8 63.2 Non-current 7.5 38.3 Nil 0.9 46.7 20.9 83.2 3.1 2.7 109.9 30 April 2005: Current 16.3 35.4 3.9 Nil 55.6 Non-current 9.2 28.2 Nil Nil 37.4 25.5 63.6 3.9 Nil 93.0 Stagecoach Group plc | page 73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 26 Retirement benefit obligations The Group contributes to a number of pension schemes.
The principal defined benefit occupational benefit schemes are as follows: The Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme SGPS : The South West Trains section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS : The Island Line section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS : A number of UK Local Government Pension Schemes LGPS : The Yorkshire Traction Company Limited Pension Plan YTC The Strathtay Scottish Omnibuses Limited Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SSO.
These schemes are devised in accordance with local employment terms and conditions.
Each scheme is administered independently of the employers and the schemes assets are held in trusts that are managed by investment managers appointed by the schemes trustees.
The Directors believe that separate consideration should be given to RPS as the Group has no rights or obligations in respect of sections of the scheme following expiry of the related franchises.
Therefore, the liability recognised for the relevant sections of RPS only represents that part of the net deficit of each section that the employer is obliged to fund over the life of the franchise to which the section relates.
The restriction on the liabilities to show the impact of this franchise adjustment is shown below.
In addition, the Group contributes to a number of defined contribution schemes.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: Funded plans Year ended 30 April 2006 SGPS RPS LGPS YTC SSO Other Unfunded Total plans m m m m m m m m Equities 444.5 324.8 174.5 33.5 5.0 0.7 Nil 983.0 Bonds 54.2 20.9 39.2 7.3 0.5 0.9 Nil 123.0 Cash 40.5 19.7 18.5 0.1 Nil 0.4 Nil 79.2 Property 37.5 6.9 8.5 1.3 Nil Nil Nil 54.2 Fair value of plan assets 576.7 372.3 240.7 42.2 5.5 2.0 Nil 1,239.4 Present value of funded unfunded obligations excluding franchise adjustment 753.0 387.0 264.3 51.4 8.4 2.5 3.6 1,470.2 franchise adjustment Nil 8.6 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 8.6 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 176.3 6.1 23.6 9.2 2.9 0.5 3.6 222.2 Year ended 30 April 2005 Funded plans SGPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total plans m m m m m m Equities 410.6 236.7 127.2 0.7 Nil 775.2 Bonds Nil 17.1 36.6 0.8 Nil 54.5 Cash 20.7 14.7 17.6 0.3 Nil 53.3 Properties Nil 3.1 7.2 Nil Nil 10.3 Fair value of plan assets 431.3 271.6 188.6 1.8 Nil 893.3 Present value of funded unfunded obligations excluding franchise adjustment 591.6 314.5 237.1 2.5 3.7 1,149.4 franchise adjustment Nil 35.2 Nil Nil Nil 35.2 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 160.3 7.7 48.5 0.7 3.7 220.9 The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2006 2005 % % Equities 79.3 86.8 Bonds 9.9 6.1 Cash 6.4 6.0 Property 4.4 1.1 100.0 100.0 page 74 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 26 Retirement benefit obligations continued The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: Funded plans SGPS RPS LGPS YTC SSO Other Total Year ended 30 April 2006 m m m m m m m Defined benefit schemes: Current service cost 21.5 16.9 3.3 0.6 0.2 Nil 42.5 Interest cost 32.2 11.4 13.0 0.9 0.1 0.1 57.7 Expected return on plan assets 36.8 13.5 14.5 1.0 0.1 Nil 65.9 Unwinding of franchise adjustment Nil 1.9 Nil Nil Nil Nil 1.9 Total defined benefit costs 16.9 12.9 1.8 0.5 0.2 0.1 32.4 Defined contribution costs Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 1.0 1.0 Total, included in staff costs Note 6 16.9 12.9 1.8 0.5 0.2 1.1 33.4 The actual return on plan assets for the year ended 30 April 2006 was 262.8m.
Funded plans SGPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total Year ended 30 April 2005 plans m m m m m m Defined benefit schemes: Current service cost 20.2 14.2 4.0 Nil 0.3 38.7 Interest cost 29.4 9.9 12.4 0.1 Nil 51.8 Expected return on plan assets 32.2 12.0 13.2 0.1 Nil 57.5 Unwinding of franchise adjustment Nil 0.7 Nil Nil Nil 0.7 Total defined benefit costs 17.4 11.4 3.2 Nil 0.3 32.3 Defined contribution costs Nil Nil Nil 0.6 Nil 0.6 Total, included in staff costs Note 6 17.4 11.4 3.2 0.6 0.3 32.9 The actual return on plan assets for the year ended 30 April 2005 was 68.0m.
The movements in the net liability recognised in the balance sheet for the year ended 30 April 2006 were as follows: Funded plans Year ended 30 April 2006 SGPS RPS LGPS YTC SSO Other Unfunded Total plans m m m m m m m m At beginning of year 160.3 7.7 48.5 Nil Nil 0.7 3.7 220.9 Acquired as part of business combinations Nil Nil 2.5 14.9 4.1 Nil Nil 21.5 Total expense as shown above 16.9 12.9 1.8 0.5 0.2 1.1 Nil 33.4 Actuarial losses gains 19.2 0.6 25.2 5.6 1.2 0.5 Nil 13.9 Employers contributions paid 20.1 13.9 4.0 0.6 0.2 0.8 0.1 39.7 At end of year 176.3 6.1 23.6 9.2 2.9 0.5 3.6 222.2 The movements in the net liability recognised in the balance sheet for the year ended 30 April 2005 were as follows: Funded plans SGPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total Year ended 30 April 2005 plans m m m m m m At beginning of year 120.4 8.1 42.6 0.3 3.5 174.9 Total expense as shown above 17.4 11.4 3.2 0.6 0.3 32.9 Actuarial losses 43.5 1.4 5.8 0.2 Nil 50.9 Employers contributions paid 21.0 13.2 3.1 0.6 0.1 38.0 Foreign exchange Nil Nil Nil 0.2 Nil 0.2 At end of year 160.3 7.7 48.5 0.7 3.7 220.9 Stagecoach Group plc | page 75 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 26 Retirement benefit obligations continued The movements in the total present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows: 2006 2005 m m At beginning of year 1,114.2 969.3 Current service cost 42.5 38.7 Defined contribution costs 1.0 0.6 Interest cost 57.7 51.8 Unwinding of franchise adjustment 1.9 0.7 Members contributions paid 23.2 22.3 Actuarial gains and losses 183.0 61.4 Benefits paid 34.2 32.9 Merger of small scheme Nil 3.5 Acquired as part of business combination 76.0 Nil Foreign exchange 0.1 0.2 At end of year 1,461.6 1,114.2 Movements in the total present value of fair value of scheme assets were as follows: 2006 2005 m m At beginning of year 893.3 794.4 Expected return on scheme assets 65.9 57.5 Actuarial gains and losses 196.9 10.5 Employers contributions paid 39.7 38.0 Members contributions paid 23.2 22.3 Benefits paid 34.2 32.9 Merger of small scheme Nil 3.5 Acquired as part of business combination 54.5 Nil Foreign exchange 0.1 Nil At end of year 1,239.4 893.3 The amounts recognised in the statement of other recognised income and expense were as follows: 2006 2005 m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 196.9 10.5 Experience adjustment, arising on scheme liabilities 92.7 6.8 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the liabilities 90.3 54.6 Total actuarial gain loss recognised 13.9 50.9 The history of experience adjustments is as follows: 2006 2005 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities: Experience adjustments m 92.7 6.8 Scheme liabilities m 1,461.6 1,114.2 Percentage of scheme liabilities % 6.3% 0.6% Experience adjustments on scheme assets: Experience adjustments m 196.9 10.5 Scheme assets m 1,239.4 893.3 Percentage of scheme assets % 15.9% 1.2% The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid to the schemes during the financial year ending 30 April 2007 is 40.2m 2006: 37.9m.
The estimated contributions have not been adjusted to take into account the sale of our London bus business.
page 76 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 26 Retirement benefit obligations continued The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 2006 2005 % % Rate of increase in salaries 4.3 4.3 Rate of increase of pensions in payment SGPS 2.7 2.6 other defined benefit schemes 2.8 2.8 Discount rate 5.3 5.4 Inflation 2.8 2.8 Expected long-term rates of return as at 30 April were: Equities 8.3 8.5 Bonds 5.0 5.3 Cash 4.5 4.7 Property 7.5 7.5 includes private equity The expected return on plan assets is based on expectations at the beginning of the period for returns over the entire life of the benefit obligation.
The expected returns are set in conjunction with external advisors and take account of market factors, fund managers views and targets for future returns and where appropriate, historical returns.
The life expectancy assumptions used for each scheme are periodically reviewed.
Note 27 Derivative financial instruments and hedging a Derivative financial instruments The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, including the effects of changes in debt and equity market prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk and interest rate movements.
The Group does not generally hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Treasury risk management: The main areas of financial risk associated with the Groups businesses are managed by a centralised Group Treasury function.
The Board regularly reviews these risks and approves the Groups treasury policy, which covers the management of these risks.
Financial instruments are held to finance Group operations, to manage the financial risk exposures and to achieve greater certainty of future costs.
Fuel hedging: The Groups UK and North American bus operations including the London bus operations consume the equivalent of 1.9m barrels of diesel fuel per annum.
As a result, the Groups profits are exposed to the movement in the underlying price of crude oil, which is the major driver of diesel prices.
The Group manages the volatility in its fuel costs by maintaining an ongoing fuel-hedging programme whereby derivatives are used to fix or cap the variable unit cost of a percentage of anticipated fuel consumption.
If the Group had no hedging in place, a movement of US$10 in the price of a barrel of crude oil would affect the Groups fuel costs by approximately US$19m.
The Groups fuel hedging levels are summarised below: Financial year ended ending 30 April 2006 2007 2008 2009 Proportion of actual forecast fuel consumption hedged: Hedged by fuel swaps 85% 18% Hedged by fuel collars 75% 44% 38% We will adjust our hedging levels where appropriate as and when the planned disposal of the Groups London bus operations is completed.
Currency rate risk: The Group is exposed to limited transactional currency risk due to the small number of foreign currency transactions entered into by subsidiaries in currencies other than their functional currency.
Forward buying of currencies is carried out by the Group Treasury function where appropriate.
Following the disposal of its New Zealand operations in November 2005, the Group now only has overseas investments in Canada and the USA.
To minimise balance sheet translation exposure, the Group hedges the sterling book value of overseas operations through borrowings denominated in their functional currency or, where necessary, through the use of derivative financial instruments which effectively convert sterling borrowings into borrowings of the functional currency, and through forward currency exchange contracts.
It is Group policy to examine each overseas investment individually and to adopt a strategy based on current and forecast political and economic climates.
The policy aims to allow the Group to maintain a low cost of funds and to retain some potential for currency appreciation whilst partially hedging against currency depreciation.
Credit risk: It is the Groups policy to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
To control credit risk, counterparty credit limits are set by reference to published credit ratings and the counterpartys geographical location.
The Group considers the risk of material loss in the event of non-performance by a financial counterparty to be low.
Interest rate risk management: To provide some certainty as to the level of interest cost, it is the Groups policy to manage interest rate exposure through the use of fixed and floating rate debt.
Derivative instruments are also used where appropriate to generate the desired interest rate profile.
At 30 April 2006, 70% 30 April 2005: 63% of the Groups gross borrowings were fixed or capped.
For the year to 30 April 2006 floating rate Sterling borrowings of 50.0m 2005: 50.0m were economically hedged with a collar with a cap rate of 8.5% and a floor of 4.5%.
The cap and floor were not exercised during the year to 30 April 2006.
On 28 April 2006 the floor was cancelled by the counterparty in accordance with the contract terms.
Whilst the cap is considered an economic hedge of interest rate risk it has not been designated as an accounting hedge due to its low market value and low volatility.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 77 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 27 Derivative financial instruments and hedging continued b Fair value of derivative financial instruments The fair value of derivative financial instruments at 30 April 2006 is set out below: Fair value Notional amount Fair value Notional amount of derivative of fuel usage covered of derivative of fuel usage covered financial assets by derivative financial liabilities by derivative financial assets financial liabilities m m At 30 April 2006 Derivatives held as cash flow hedges Fuel derivatives 3.7 53m litres 2.5 478m litres 3.7 2.5 Derivatives held for trading Interest rate cap Nil 0.2 Foreign exchange forward contracts Nil 0.1 3.7 2.8 c Embedded derivatives In accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, all significant contracts to which the Group is a party have been reviewed for embedded derivatives.
One 2005: None embedded derivative was identified that IAS 39 required to be separately accounted for, being a fuel swap embedded in a Sale and Purchase Agreement.
The embedded derivative had expired by 30 April 2006 and accordingly, no fair value is attributed to it at 30 April 2006. d Cash flow hedges The Group uses a number of fuel derivatives to hedge the different types of fuel used in each of its divisions.
Ultra low sulphur diesel used in the UK Bus division is hedged by derivatives priced from the same type of fuel.
Diesel used in the North American division is hedged by heating oil swaps that have been determined to be effective hedges of the fuel used with a strong correlation in price movements between the two products.
The fuel derivatives hedge the underlying commodity price risk denominated in US$ and in the case of the UK Bus division, they also hedge the currency risk due to the commodity being priced in US$ and the functional currency of the UK Bus division being pounds sterling.
The fuel derivatives include fixed price swaps and collars.
The collars are hedges against the price of fuel being above a certain capped level or below a certain floor level.
Collars have been used in preference to caps to reduce the overall cash cost of purchasing the cap protection.
The fair value of fuel derivatives as at 30 April 2006 was a net asset of 1.2m, shown in note 27 b as an asset of 3.7m and a liability of 2.5m.
The movements in the fair value of fuel derivatives in the year ended 30 April 2006 were as follows: m Fuel derivatives Fair value of as at 1 May 2005 recognised on the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 8.6 Fair value at acquisition of derivatives acquired through business combinations 2.9 Changes in fair value during the year taken to cash flow hedging reserve 9.2 Changes in fair value during the year taken directly to income statement 1.3 Cash received during the year 18.2 Fair value as at 30 April 2006 1.2 page 78 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 27 Financial instruments continued d Cash flow hedges continued The fair value of the fuel derivatives as at 30 April 2006 split by maturity was as follows: Fair value of Fair value of assets liabilities m m At 30 April 2006 Within one year 3.7 1.3 1 to 2 years Nil 0.7 2 to 3 years Nil 0.5 3.7 2.5 The fair value of fuel derivatives is further analysed by currency and segment as follows 30 April 2006 1 May 2005 Fair value Notional amount Fair value Notional amount of fuel usage covered of fuel usage covered by derivatives by derivatives m million litres m million litres Sterling denominated UK Bus 0.9 402.0 5.0 173.7 US Dollar denominated North America 0.3 129.0 3.2 97.7 NZ Dollar denominated New Zealand Nil Nil 0.4 20.5 1.2 531.0 8.6 291.9 The fair value of the fuel derivatives shown above at 1 May 2005 and at 30 April 2006 does not correspond to the amount of the related cash flow hedging reserve at these dates.
The amounts differ for two reasons: 1 the ineffective portion of the hedging instruments is dealt with directly in the income statement and 2 the fair value at acquisition of cash flow hedging instruments acquired through business combinations is accounted for as part of the accounting for the business combination.
The movements in the cash flow hedging reserve all of which related to the above fuel derivatives in the year ended 30 April 2006 were as follows: m Cash flow hedging reserve Fair value of as at 1 May 2005 recognised on the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 7.3 Changes in fair value during the year taken to cash flow hedging reserve 9.2 Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in profit for the year 17.3 Cash flow hedging reserve as at 30 April 2006 0.8 e Held for trading At 30 April 2006, the Group had a US$20m forward foreign exchange contract whereby the Group purchases US$20m on 28 April 2007 and pays 11.1m.
This contract covers the US$20m principal of the US$ notes that have not been designated as a hedge of net investments in foreign entities.
The movement in fair value of the forward contract will offset movements in the US$ notes.
Hedge accounting has not been sought due to the treatment of this derivative as a fair value hedge being the same as for the forward contract being classified as a derivative held for trading.
At 30 April 2006, the Group had an 8.5% interest rate cap which matures in October 2007.
Due to the small fair value of the derivative, no hedge effectiveness testing was performed on transition to IAS 32 and IAS 39 and therefore, whilst considered to be an effective risk management derivative, it has been designated as a held for trading derivative.
There are no other derivative liabilities related to foreign exchange risks.
f Hedge of overseas net investments At 30 April 2006 US$314.1m of the US$334.1m of US$ notes was designated as a hedge of net investments in foreign entities.
The other US$20m of US$ notes were notionally matched against a forward foreign exchange contract at 30 April 2006, as described in note 27 e above.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 28 Called up share capital 2006 2005 m m Authorised 1,456,666,666 2005: 1,456,666,666 ordinary shares of 12 19 pence each 9.2 9.2 2005: 1,388,888,889 redeemable B preference shares of 18 pence each n a 250.0 Total 9.2 259.2 2006 2005 No of shares m No of shares m Allotted, called-up and fully-paid Ordinary shares of 12 19 pence each At 1 May 1,069,545,227 6.8 1,335,358,600 6.7 Allotted under share option schemes n a n a 5,374,302 At 9 September pre share consolidation n a n a 1,340,732,902 6.7 10 September share consolidation 19 shares for every 24 previously issued n a n a 279,319,355 At 10 September post share consolidation n a n a 1,061,413,547 6.7 Allotted under share option schemes 20,033,016 0.1 3,067,259 Issued as part of business combination 4,022,070 Issued to employee share ownership trusts 5,064,421 0.1 At 30 April 1,093,600,313 6.9 1,069,545,227 6.8 Redeemable B preference shares of 18 pence each At 1 May n a n a Nil Nil Issued during year n a n a 1,340,732,902 241.3 Redeemed during year n a n a 1,263,543,261 227.4 At 30 April n a n a 77,189,641 13.9 The balance on the share capital account represents the aggregate nominal value of all ordinary shares in issue.
The redeemable B preference shares were classified as a component of equity prior to the adoption of IAS 32 and 39 on 1 May 2005.
Therefore, the comparatives for the year ended 30 April 2005 show the B preference shares as equity.
The B preference shares were reclassified as liabilities on 1 May 2005, being the date on which IAS 32 and IAS 39 were adopted by the Group.
The redeemable B shares were redeemable at their nominal value of 18 pence per share at the option of holders on 31 March and 30 September each year.
As a result of the number of B shares already redeemed, the Company was able to compulsorily redeem all the outstanding B shares on 30 September 2005.
The B shares were not listed on a recognised Stock Exchange.
The Group operates two Employee Share Ownership Trusts: the Stagecoach Group Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST and the Stagecoach Group Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
Shares held by these trusts are treated as a deduction from equity in the Groups financial statements.
Other assets and liabilities of the trusts are consolidated in the Groups financial statements as if they were assets and liabilities of the Group.
As at 30 April 2006, the QUEST held 628,285 2005: 1,811,212 ordinary shares in the Company and the EBT held 4,690,333 2005: 4,690,333 ordinary shares in the Company.
page 80 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 29 Share based payments The Group operates an Executive Share Option Scheme, a Save as You Earn Scheme SAYE and a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The Group also operates an Executive Participation Plan EPP but no awards have been made under the EPP on or before 30 April 2006.
The Remuneration Committee report on pages 28 to 34 gives further details of each of these arrangements.
As disclosed in note 6, a share based payment charge of 2.2m 2005: 1.4m has been recognised in the income statement during the year in relation to the above schemes, including 0.1m 2005: 0.1m in relation to our disposed New Zealand operations.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS, the requirements of IFRS 2 have not been applied to equity instruments that were granted before 7 November 2002 or equity instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 that had vested before the date of transition, being 1 May 2004.
Therefore the following disclosures relate only to awards made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1 May 2004.
LTIP awards are based on notional units.
One notional unit has a value equal to one of the Companys ordinary shares.
LTIP awards are not share options and are valued using a separate simulation model therefore some of the above disclosures are not applicable.
Expected volatility was determined at the date of grant from historic volatility, adjusted for events that were not considered to be reflective of the volatility of the share price going forward.
All options were granted for nil consideration.
The mid-market price for the ordinary shares at 30 April 2006 was 1.08 2005: 1.03.
The Companys ordinary shares traded in the range of 1.01 to 1.23 2005: 0.76 to 1.23 during the year to that date.
As share options are exercised continuously throughout the year, the weighted average share price during the year of 1.12 2005: 0.97 is representative of the weighted average share price at the date of exercise.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 29 Share based payments continued Save as You Earn Scheme Two issues from the SAYE scheme were in operation during the year as follows: Issue Option grant date Savings contract start date Exercise price Date from which exercisable Expiry date C 15 February 2002 1 April 2002 60.0p 1 April 2005 30 September 2005 D 11 February 2005 1 April 2005 103.275p 1 April 2008 30 September 2008 The fair value of these options is not taken into account when determining the share based payment charge for the years ended 30 April 2006 or 30 April 2005 in accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 as the options were granted before 7 November 2002.
The expiry date of any individual SAYE option can be extended to be six months following the date of payment of the final amount due under the related savings account but may be no later than six months after the applicable expiry date shown above.
The changes in the number of participating employees and options over ordinary shares were as follows: Issue C Issue D Number of Ordinary Number of Ordinary employees shares under option employees shares under option Beginning of year 645 1,806,189 4,291 12,198,449 Options exercised 385 1,287,852 5 2,271 Options lapsed 260 518,337 489 1,439,507 End of year Nil Nil 3,797 10,756,671 Long Term Incentive Plan The first issue of LTIP awards was made in August 2005 therefore there is no information provided for the year ended 30 April 2005.
Under the LTIP, executives are awarded notional units with a value equal to one of the Companys ordinary shares.
A reconciliation of the notional units awarded for the LTIP over the year to 30 April 2006 is as follows: Awards granted Dividends Outstanding Fair value per LTIP Fair value per LTIP in year in year at end of year unit at grant date unit at 30 April 2006 TSR ranking Vesting date Award date notional units notional units notional units at 30 April 2006 26 August 2005 1,495,120 30,976 1,526,096 0.4237 0.1232 210 26 Aug 2008 TSR ranking is based on the Groups TSR ranking in the FTSE 250 whereby 1 is top and 250 is bottom of the comparator group.
The TSR ranking is calculated by independent advisors.
Note 30 Reserves 2006 2005 m m Share premium account 174.8 163.4 Retained earnings 212.1 294.4 Capital redemption reserve 243.0 229.1 Own shares 6.1 6.8 Translation reserve 4.0 3.4 Available for sale reserve 1.9 Nil Cashflow hedging reserve 0.8 Nil A reconciliation of the movements in the above reserves is shown in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 40.
The balance of the share premium account represents the amounts received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares offset by issue costs, bonus issues of shares and any transfer between reserves.
The balance held in the retained earnings reserve is the accumulated retained profits of the Group.
The consolidated profit on ordinary activities after taxation for the financial year includes 52.0m 2005: 87.1m in respect of the Company.
Cumulative goodwill of 113.8m 2005: 113.8m has been written off against reserves in periods prior to 1 May 1998 in accordance with the UK accounting standards then in force and such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves.
Details of own shares held are given in note 28.
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Stagecoach Group plc purchased in the market and held by the Groups two Employee Share Ownership Trusts to satisfy options under the Groups share option schemes offset by any sales proceeds.
The translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translations of the financial statements of foreign operations.
It is also used to record the effect of hedging net investments in foreign operations.
The available for sale reserve records the changes in fair value on available-for-sale investments.
On disposal, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement.
The cash flow hedging reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge.
On maturity, the cumulative gain or loss is recycled to the income statement to match the recognition of the hedged item through the income statement.
page 82 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 31 Consolidated cash flows a Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations 2006 2005 m m Operating profit of Group companies 143.6 137.3 Operating profit of discontinued operations 5.5 8.7 Depreciation continuing operations 68.7 62.8 discontinued operations 3.0 4.5 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 1.9 3.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 7.4 4.1 Share based payment expense continuing operations 2.1 1.3 discontinued operations 0.1 0.1 Impairment of investment Nil 0.4 232.3 222.2 Increase in inventories 0.9 0.4 Increase in receivables 24.4 13.2 Increase in payables 14.9 9.8 Increase decrease in provisions 6.8 14.8 Decrease in retirement benefit obligations 6.3 5.1 222.4 198.5 Interest paid 24.4 26.2 Interest received 8.3 13.6 Interest element of hire purchase contracts and finance lease payments 3.3 8.3 Non-equity dividends paid n a 0.4 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates Nil 23.5 Cash generated from operations 203.0 200.7 b Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2006 2005 In the cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment comprise: m m Net book values 11.3 12.1 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 1.9 3.0 Gain on disposal of properties 0.8 1.3 Value of property, plant and equipment traded in 2.0 6.1 Movement in receivables for proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment Nil 2.8 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 8.2 7.1 c Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2006 2005 m m Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 59.3 335.6 Bond repayments Nil 181.0 Cash flow from decrease in debt and lease financing 48.8 21.6 108.1 133.0 Other movements 8.5 14.0 Borrowings acquired as part of business combinations 20.9 Nil Decrease increase in net debt 78.7 147.0 Opening net debt UK GAAP definition - see note 31 d 214.6 67.6 Closing net debt UK GAAP definition - see note 31 d 135.9 214.6 Stagecoach Group plc | page 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 31 Consolidated cash flows continued d Analysis of net debt IFRS does not explicitly define net debt.
The analysis provided below therefore shows analysis of net debt as UK GAAP defines it.
The analysis below further shows the other items classified as net borrowings in the consolidated balance sheet.
Charged IAS 32 & Foreign credited to IAS 39 New hire exchange income Opening adoption Cashflows purchase movements Acquisitions statement Closing m m m m m m m m Cash 104.2 Nil 59.8 Nil 0.5 Nil Nil 164.5 Cash collateral 34.3 Nil 0.5 Nil Nil Nil Nil 33.8 Hire purchase and finance lease obligations 66.1 Nil 14.4 10.7 Nil 10.3 Nil 101.5 Bank loans and loan stock 112.1 Nil 73.9 Nil 0.3 10.6 Nil 49.1 Bonds 174.9 Nil Nil Nil 8.6 Nil 0.1 183.6 UK GAAP Net Debt 214.6 Nil 118.8 10.7 8.4 20.9 0.1 135.9 Accrued interest on bonds n a 6.9 16.2 Nil 0.4 Nil 16.2 7.3 Separate recognition of foreign exchange forward contract n a 0.4 1.7 Nil 2.1 Nil 0.1 0.1 Redeemable B shares n a 13.9 13.9 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Unamortised gain on early settlement of interest rate swaps n a 23.5 Nil Nil Nil Nil 7.6 15.9 Net borrowings 214.6 43.9 150.6 10.7 10.9 20.9 8.6 159.0 The net total of cash and cash collateral of 198.3m 2005: 138.5m is classified in the balance sheet as 198.5m 2005: 140.0m in cash and cash equivalents and 0.2m 2005: 1.5m as bank overdrafts within borrowings.
e Restricted cash The cash collateral balance as at 30 April 2006 of 33.8m 2005: 34.3m comprises balances held in trust in respect of loan notes of 33.0m 2005: 33.5m and North America restricted cash balances of 0.8m 2005: 0.8m.
In addition, cash includes train operating company cash of 89.2m 2005: 61.3m.
Under the terms of the franchise agreements, train operating companies can only distribute cash out of retained profits.
Had the Groups rail franchises ended on the balance sheet date, consolidated net debt would have increased by 122.7m 2005: 95.2m as a result of the train operating company cash of 89.2m 2005: 61.3m and the repayment of inter-company loans of 36.7m 2005: 35.1m offset by distributable reserves of 3.2m 2005: 1.2m.
f Purchase of subsidiary undertakings 2006 2005 m m Net assets acquired at fair value see note 16 13.5 4.8 Goodwill see note 10 20.7 Nil 34.2 4.8 Consideration: Shares issued in respect of acquisitions 4.5 Nil Cash and acquisition expenses paid in year 29.7 4.8 34.2 4.8 The cash paid during the year in respect of the purchase of subsidiary undertakings was as follows: 2006 2005 m m Cash and acquisition expenses paid in year see above 29.7 4.8 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 2.1 Nil Net cash paid in respect of acquisitions in year 27.6 4.8 Deferred consideration in respect of businesses acquired in prior years 0.1 1.1 27.7 5.9 Details of net assets acquired and related considerations are set out in note 16.
Businesses acquired in the year contributed 6.2m to the cash inflows from operating activities and a net cash outflow of 7.2m in respect of investing activities.
page 84 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 31 Consolidated cash flows continued g Disposal of subsidiaries and other businesses Details of net assets disposed of and the related sales proceeds are set out in note 17.
Businesses disposed of in the year contributed 5.1m to the cash inflows from operating activities, 4.2m of cash outflows in respect of investing activities and 0.1m of cash inflows for financing activities.
h Non cash transactions The principal non cash transactions are the issue of shares as consideration for the purchase of a subsidiary Note 16 and the acquisition of property, plant and equipment using new hire purchase.
Note 32 Contingencies Contingent liabilities i A performance bond backed by a bank facility for 44.3m 2005: 44.3m, a season ticket bond backed by an insurance arrangement for 33.7m 2005: 32.5m and a holding company guarantee of 15.7m 2005: 15.7m have been provided to the DfT in support of the Groups franchise obligations at South West Trains Limited at 30 April 2006.
These contingent liabilities are not expected to crystallise.
ii The Group and its joint venture, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, have, in the normal course of business, entered into a number of long-term supply contracts.
The most significant of these relate to track, station and depot access facilities, together with new train lease and maintenance arrangements.
iii Under UK Rail franchise agreements, the Group and its joint venture, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, have agreed with the DfT annual amounts receivable or payable in respect of the operation of rail franchises for future periods.
Under these agreements, there is a requirement to comply with a number of obligations.
Failure to comply with these obligations would be a breach of the relevant franchise.
iv The Group and the Company are from time to time party to legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business.
Liabilities have been recognised in the financial statements for the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle obligations arising under such legal actions.
As at 30 April 2006, the liabilities in the consolidated financial statements for such claims total 4.4m 2005: 4.6m.
Note 33 Guarantees and other financial commitments a Capital commitments 2006 2005 Capital commitments are as follows: m m Contracted for but not provided For delivery in one year 55.4 57.8 b Operating lease commitments The following are the future minimum contractual lease payments due under unexpired operating leases as at 30 April 2006: Buses & other Land & road transportation Trains & Plant & buildings equipment rolling stock machinery Total m m m m m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2007 7.7 14.5 84.8 3.2 110.2 Year ending 30 April 2008 3.3 10.1 Nil 0.9 14.3 Year ending 30 April 2009 2.8 10.3 Nil 0.5 13.6 Year ending 30 April 2010 2.5 1.3 Nil 0.1 3.9 Year ending 30 April 2011 2.2 0.1 Nil 0.1 2.4 1 May 2011 and thereafter 8.6 Nil Nil Nil 8.6 27.1 36.3 84.8 4.8 153.0 All operating lease commitments associated with South West Trains are assumed to terminate in February 2007, in line with the franchise end.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 33 Commitments continued b Operating lease commitments continued The following are the future minimum contractual lease payments due under unexpired operating leases as at 30 April 2005: Buses & other Land & road transportation Trains & Plant & buildings equipment rolling stock machinery Total m m m m m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2006 11.8 13.8 122.4 2.8 150.8 Year ending 30 April 2007 10.0 11.7 87.3 2.0 111.0 Year ending 30 April 2008 5.5 7.7 Nil 0.4 13.6 Year ending 30 April 2009 4.0 9.4 Nil 0.2 13.6 Year ending 30 April 2010 3.7 0.6 Nil 0.1 4.4 1 May 2010 and thereafter 13.8 Nil Nil Nil 13.2 48.8 43.2 209.7 5.5 307.2 All operating lease commitments associated with South West Trains are assumed to terminate in February 2007, in line with the franchise end.
c Network Rail charges South West Trains has contracts with Network Rail for access to the railway infrastructure track, stations and depots until February 2007.
Commitments for payments under these contracts are as follows: 2006 2005 m m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2007 141.0 101.3 All Network Rail charges are assumed to terminate in February 2007, in line with the franchise end.
d Joint ventures Our share of commitments and contingent liabilities in joint ventures shown below are based on the latest statutory financial statements of the relevant companies: 2006 2005 m m Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 68.8 71.4 Capital commitments Nil Nil Franchise performance bonds 14.7 14.7 Season ticket bond 1.2 1.2 page 86 | Stagecoach Group plc Note 34 Related party transactions Transactions in which directors have had a material interest and details of directors remuneration are disclosed in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 28 to 34.
At 30 April 2006, the Group had loan notes receivable of 3.3m 2005: 3.3m from Virgin Rail Group Limited.
The Group earned interest of 0.3m 2005: 0.7m on the loan notes during the year.
During the year, Graham Eccles and other members of the Groups management were non-executive directors of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited.
Fees of 25,000 2005: 25,000 were payable to the Group by Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited in this regard.
Brian Souter is Chairman of ScotAirways Group Ltd. During the year the Group purchased flights from ScotAirways Group totalling 76,168 2005: 74,905.
On 21 May 2004, Brian Souter Chief Executive of Stagecoach and Ann Gloag a Non-Executive Director of Stagecoach together gained control of 39.3% of the shares and voting rights in Alexander Dennis Limited.
Noble Grossart Investments Limited controls a further 29.5% of the shares and voting rights of Alexander Dennis Limited.
None of Brian Souter, Ann Gloag or Ewan Brown is a director of Alexander Dennis Limited nor do they have any involvement in the management of Alexander Dennis Limited.
Furthermore, they do not participate in deciding on and negotiating the terms and conditions of transactions between the Group and Alexander Dennis Limited.
For the year ended 30 April 2006, the Group purchased 46.5m period from 21 May 2004 to 30 April 2005: 25.5m of vehicles from Alexander Dennis Limited and 2.9m period from 21 May 2004 to 30 April 2005: 2.4m of spare parts and other services.
For new orders placed with Alexander Dennis Limited for vehicles, the Group has consulted with the UK Listing Authority and taken the appropriate measures to ensure that the transactions with Alexander Dennis Limited comply with the Listing Rules.
For the year ended 30 April 2006, the Group has placed orders totalling 41.6m period from 21 May 2004 to 30 April 2005: 49.3m with Alexander Dennis Limited for the purchase of new vehicles.
Of this 41.6m period from 21 May 2004 to 30 April 2005: 49.3m, vehicles accounting for 3.9m period from 21 May 2004 to 30 April 2005: 5.1m were delivered prior to 30 April 2006 and are included in the total purchases of 46.5m period from 21 May 2004 to 30 April 2005: 25.5m referred to above.
The Groups defined benefit schemes are related parties of the Group.
Details of contributions made to these schemes during the year are contained in note 26.
Note 35 Post balance sheet events On 23 June 2006, the Group agreed to sell its London bus operations to Macquarie Bank Limited.
The sale is subject to regulatory approval and other closing conditions, and at the present time the Group anticipates that the sale will complete within three months.
The total proceeds for the sale are 263.6m in cash, subject to adjustments dependent on the net assets of the London bus operations at completion.
The Groups consolidated gain on disposal is estimated at 120.0m although the gain will depend on the final determination of the net assets of the London bus business at completion of the sale.
Note 36 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS Stagecoach Group plc the Group previously prepared its consolidated financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP for periods up to and including 30 April 2005.
From 1 May 2005 onwards, the Group is required to prepare its consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee interpretations as endorsed by the European Union EU.
The results for the year ended 30 April 2006 represent the Groups first financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting policies based on IFRS and accordingly the comparative figures for the year ended 30 April 2005 have been restated in accordance with IFRS.
Detailed transitional UK GAAP to IFRS reconciliations for the comparatives were issued on 29 September 2005 and can be found on the Groups website at: http: www.
com scg ir finanalysis reports.
In the announcement of 29 September 2005, we noted that the financial information presented may subsequently be impacted by changes in the business or to IFRS or the interpretation thereof.
The comparative information reported in these results differs from that previously reported as a result of such changes.
The following changes have been made to the comparatives since Year ended 30 April 2005 the reconciliations published on 29 September 2005: m Income statement Increase in Group operating costs 3.0 Increase in Group other operating income 3.0 Increase in operating profit from joint ventures 1.0 1.0 As at 30 April 2005 m Balance sheet Increase in provisions within current liabilities 55.6 Decrease in provisions within non-current liabilities 55.6 Decrease in interests in joint ventures 6.0 Decrease in net assets and equity 6.0 A loss on sale of plant and equipment of 3.0m has been reclassified from Group other operating income to Group operating costs.
Provisions totalling 55.6m previously classified as non-current liabilities have been reclassified to current liabilities.
An intangible asset had been previously recognised in relation to VRG in our prior IFRS restatement which represented the right to operate both the West Coast and CrossCountry franchises.
This has been removed which results in an increase in profit for the year ended 30 April 2005 of 1.0m and a decrease in net assets of 6.0m at that date.
This change results from further analysis undertaken by VRG and its auditors with respect to the application of IFRS to the contractual arrangements in respect of VRGs franchises.
The transitional balance sheet shown at 1 May 2005 to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39 in the restatement has changed with net assets at 1 May 2005 decreasing by a further 0.5m.
This reflects the discounting of our North American receivables in respect of disposals in prior years.
The year ended 30 April 2005 comparatives have also been updated to reflect the disposal of our New Zealand operations, with all income and expenses relating to the New Zealand division being reclassified to profit for the year from discontinued operations.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 87 page 88 | Stagecoach Group plc Reconciliation of Profit For the year ended 30 April 2005 Previously Joint reported Goodwill Share ventures & Total effect Impact of As reported under UK Employee and Based associates Assets held First time Joint of transition Restated discontinued under GAAP Benefits intangibles Payments net liabilities for sale adoption ventures Other to IFRS under IFRS operations IFRS a b c e f g h m m m m m m m m m m m m m Revenue 1,479.5 1,479.5 59.0 1,420.5 Operating costs 1,517.1 2.8 6.8 1.4 0.1 0.3 3.0 5.6 1,511.5 52.2 1,459.3 Other operating income net 173.3 1.7 3.0 4.7 178.0 1.9 176.1 Operating profit of Group companies 135.7 4.5 6.8 1.4 0.1 0.3 10.3 146.0 8.7 137.3 Share of operating loss of joint ventures IFRS after finance income and taxation 2.2 1.6 0.1 3.5 1.8 4.0 4.0 Share of operating loss from interest in associates IFRS after finance charges and taxation 0.7 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 Total operating profit: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 132.8 6.1 7.2 1.4 0.1 0.3 3.5 8.8 141.6 8.7 132.9 Gain on sale of properties 1.3 1.3 1.3 Loss on disposed operations 5.9 0.4 1.0 0.1 1.5 7.4 7.4 Profit before interest and taxation 128.2 6.1 6.8 1.4 1.0 0.3 3.5 7.3 135.5 8.7 126.8 Finance costs net 19.9 1.7 1.7 21.6 0.3 21.9 Profit before taxation 108.3 6.1 6.8 1.4 1.0 0.3 5.2 5.6 113.9 9.0 104.9 Taxation 29.5 1.8 0.9 5.2 2.5 27.0 1.7 25.3 Profit for the year from continuing operations 78.8 4.3 5.9 1.4 1.0 0.3 8.1 86.9 7.3 79.6 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 7.3 7.3 Profit for the year 78.8 4.3 5.9 1.4 1.0 0.3 8.1 86.9 86.9 Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 78.8 4.3 5.9 1.4 1.0 0.3 8.1 86.9 86.9 Earnings per share Basic 6.8p 0.4p 0.5p 0.1 p 0.1 p 0.7p 7.5p 7.5p Adjusted 9.0p 0.6p 0.1 p 0.5p 9.5p 9.5p Note: all adjustments are explained by reference to letter on pages 91 to 94.
Previously Joint Reconciliation of Equity reported Opening ventures and Total effect of As at 30 April 2005 under UK balance sheet Employee Goodwill and Proposed associates Assets held First time transition to Restated GAAP adjustment Benefits intangibles dividends net liabilities for sale adoption Other IFRS under IFRS a b d e f g m m m m m m m m m m m ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill 89.5 4.1 4.6 3.6 4.1 93.6 Other intangible assets 10.1 2.9 2.0 9.2 9.2 Property, plant and equipment 640.2 53.1 0.2 0.8 0.3 54.0 694.2 Interests in joint ventures 71.2 9.9 5.1 0.1 15.1 56.1 Interests in associates 0.7 0.3 0.3 1.0 Financial assets: Available for sale and other investments 1.7 0.1 0.1 1.8 Deferred tax asset 4.1 4.1 Other receivables 44.6 40.8 2.9 37.9 6.7 852.0 8.4 5.1 6.7 4.4 0.3 14.7 866.7 Current assets Inventories 12.5 1.6 1.6 12.5 Trade and other receivables 174.1 11.2 0.6 0.1 2.1 17.7 4.9 169.2 Cash and cash equivalents 140.0 140.0 326.6 9.6 0.6 0.1 3.7 17.7 4.9 321.7 Assets held for sale 8.1 8.1 Total assets 1,178.6 26.1 5.7 6.8 0.3 17.7 9.8 1,188.4 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade and other payables 357.6 0.7 0.7 357.6 Current tax liabilities 33.3 33.3 Financial liabilities: Borrowings 126.5 17.7 17.7 126.5 Dividends payable 24.4 26.5 2.1 24.4 Provisions 69.9 14.3 55.6 55.6 541.8 60.4 2.1 0.7 32.0 31.2 573.0 Noncurrent liabilities Other payables 8.1 8.1 Financial liabilities: Borrowings 228.1 228.1 Deferred tax liabilities 78.7 60.3 14.0 1.1 73.2 5.5 Provisions joint ventures 1.0 1.0 others 102.9 80.0 0.1 0.1 14.3 65.5 37.4 Retirement benefit obligations IAS 19 deficit 175.0 45.9 220.9 220.9 417.8 33.7 32.0 1.1 1.0 0.1 14.3 82.2 500.0 Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 0.8 0.8 Total liabilities 959.6 94.9 32.0 1.1 2.1 1.0 17.7 113.4 1,073.0 Net assets 219.0 68.8 37.7 5.7 2.1 1.0 0.3 103.6 115.4 EQUITY Ordinary share capital 6.8 6.8 Redeemable B preference shares 13.9 13.9 Share premium account 163.4 163.4 Retained earnings 187.4 68.8 37.7 5.7 2.1 1.0 0.3 3.4 107.0 294.4 Capital redemption reserve 229.1 229.1 Own shares 6.8 6.8 Translation reserve 3.4 3.4 3.4 Total equity 219.0 68.8 37.7 5.7 2.1 1.0 0.3 103.6 115.4 Note: all adjustments are explained by reference to letter on pages 91 to 94.
See reconciliation of equity as at 1 May 2004 on page 90 Stagecoach Group plc | page 89 page 90 | Stagecoach Group plc Reconciliation of Equity As at 1 May 2004 Previously Joint reported ventures and Total effect of under UK Employee Goodwill and Proposed associates Assets held First time transition to Restated GAAP Benefits intangibles dividends net liabilities for sale adoption Other IFRS under IFRS a b d e f g m m m m m m m m m m ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill 103.5 0.5 3.6 4.1 99.4 Other intangible assets 8.1 2.0 10.1 10.1 Property, plant and equipment 618.0 0.8 53.9 53.1 671.1 Interest in joint ventures 106.5 10.9 1.0 9.9 96.6 Interest in associates 1.4 1.4 Financial assets: Available for sale and other investments 2.3 2.3 Other receivables 58.0 41.6 0.8 40.8 17.2 889.7 44.4 3.3 4.4 53.9 8.4 898.1 Current assets Inventories 13.4 1.6 1.6 11.8 Trade and other receivables 169.2 1.9 2.5 2.1 17.7 11.2 180.4 Cash and cash equivalents 476.5 476.5 659.1 1.9 2.5 3.7 17.7 9.6 668.7 Assets held for sale 8.1 8.1 8.1 Total assets 1,548.8 46.3 0.8 53.9 17.7 26.1 1,574.9 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade and other payables 356.2 0.7 0.7 355.5 Current tax liabilities 34.0 34.0 Financial liabilities: Borrowings 257.9 17.7 17.7 275.6 Dividends payable 26.5 26.5 26.5 Provisions 69.9 69.9 69.9 674.6 26.5 0.7 87.6 60.4 735.0 Noncurrent liabilities Other payables 6.0 6.0 Financial liabilities: Borrowings 286.2 286.2 Deferred tax liabilities 76.2 60.3 60.3 15.9 Provisions joint ventures 1.0 1.0 1.0 others 114.8 10.0 0.1 69.9 80.0 34.8 Retirement benefit obligations 175.0 175.0 175.0 484.2 104.7 1.0 0.1 69.9 33.7 517.9 Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 0.8 0.8 0.8 Total liabilities 1,158.8 104.7 26.5 1.0 17.7 94.9 1,253.7 Net assets 390.0 151.0 0.8 26.5 1.0 53.9 68.8 321.2 EQUITY Ordinary share capital 6.7 6.7 Share premium account 392.4 392.4 Retained earnings 6.9 151.0 0.8 26.5 1.0 53.9 68.8 75.7 Capital redemption reserve 1.7 1.7 Own shares 3.9 3.9 Total equity 390.0 151.0 0.8 26.5 1.0 53.9 68.8 321.2 Reconciliation from UK GAAP to IFRS Each of the adjustments required on pages 88 to 90 to restate the Groups results to 30 April 2005 from UK GAAP to IFRS together with any associated transitional arrangements, are explained below: a IAS 19, Employee Benefits A summary of the impact of IAS 19 is detailed below: Statement of Profit recognised income Equity and expense 30 April 2005 30 April 2005 30 April 2005 1 May 2004 m m m m Operating profit 6.1 Taxation 1.8 Profit for the year 4.3 Recognised gains and losses 42.0 Net assets 188.7 151.0 IAS 19 requires the separate disclosure of the operating and financing elements of defined benefits pensions and similarly funded employee benefits but permits a number of alternatives for how these elements are classified in the income statement.
The Groups policy is to classify the full impact of pensions on the income statement within operating costs.
The standard also permits a number of alternatives for the recognition of actuarial gains and losses.
The Groups policy is to recognise any actuarial gains and losses in full immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense, as would have been required under FRS 17 in the UK.
The option to account for actuarial gains and losses in this way is part of an IASB amendment to IAS 19.
The amendment will be effective from 1 January 2006 with earlier adoption allowed.
The Group has applied the revised standard voluntarily from the Groups transition date to IFRS of 1 May 2004.
The cash funding of the plans, which may from time to time involve special payments, is designed, in consultation with independent qualified actuaries, to ensure that present and future contributions should be sufficient to meet future liabilities.
As a result of adopting IAS 19, for the year ended 30 April 2005, there is an increase in operating profit of 6.1m and a related increase in the tax charge of 1.8m.
Accordingly, profit for the year increased by 4.3m.
The balance sheet impact of the implementation of this standard in the Groups consolidated IFRS balance sheet was to reduce net assets by 151.0m at 1 May 2004 and by a cumulative 188.7m at 30 April 2005.
The rail franchise deficits reflected in the restated 30 April 2005 results reflect only that part of the deficits that we expect to fund over the life of the franchises.
A franchise adjustment has been made to the deficits to adjust them to reflect only the deficits that the Group is expected to be obliged to fund until the end of the relevant franchises.
On commencement of a rail franchise, an intangible asset is recognised which exactly offsets the initial recognition of that part of the rail deficit that the Group is expected to be obliged to fund until the end of the relevant franchise.
In accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets, this intangible asset is subsequently amortised on a straight line basis over the expected duration of the franchise.
Total amortisation of 2.9m for the year ended 30 April 2005 has been recognised in relation to the amortisation of these intangible assets.
b IFRS 3, Business Combinations: IAS 38, Intangible Assets A summary of the impact of IFRS 3 and IAS 38 is detailed below: Statement of Profit recognised income Equity and expense 30 April 2005 30 April 2005 30 April 2005 1 May 2004 m m m m Operating profit 7.2 Loss on disposed operations 0.4 Taxation 0.9 Profit for the year 5.9 Recognised gains and losses 0.2 Net assets 6.5 0.8 IFRS 3 prohibits merger accounting and the amortisation of goodwill.
The standard requires goodwill to be carried at cost with impairment reviews both annually and also where there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 91 Reconciliation from UK GAAP to IFRS b IFRS 3, Business Combinations: IAS 38, Intangible Assets continued Under the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1, a company has the option of applying IFRS 3 prospectively from the transition date to IFRS.
The Group has chosen this option rather than restate previous business combinations.
The impact of IFRS 3 and associated transitional arrangements on the Group are as follows: all prior business combination accounting is frozen at the transition date of 1 May 2004: except where goodwill relates to businesses that operate UK rail franchises with finite durations, the value of goodwill is frozen at 1 May 2004 and amortisation previously reported under UK GAAP for the year ended 30 April 2005 is removed for IFRS restatements: and any negative goodwill at 1 May 2004 is reversed.
The impact on the operating profit for the year ended 30 April 2005 is an increase of 7.2m due principally to the non-amortisation of subsidiary and associates goodwill.
The loss on disposed operations increases by 0.4m as a result of the non-amortisation of goodwill in relation to disposed operations.
The associated tax impact of these adjustments is to recognise an additional charge of 0.9m for the year.
The impact on profit for the year is therefore an increase of 5.9m.
There is an additional 0.2m charge to the statement of recognised income and expense due to the affect the non-amortisation of goodwill has on the retranslation of goodwill denominated in foreign currencies.
There remains an annual charge for goodwill in relation to our investment in Virgin Rail Group of 14.7m in our restated IFRS results for the year ended 30 April 2005.
This annual charge equals the goodwill amortisation recognised for Virgin Rail Group under our previously reported UK GAAP results.
In our IFRS results we will continue to recognise an annual charge for goodwill in relation to Virgin Rail Group, which will equate to the amount we would have amortised under UK GAAP.
Goodwill recognised in relation to the acquisition of a business operating a rail franchise has a finite life due to the fact that a franchise ends on a particular date.
We therefore have to reduce the goodwill in relation to Virgin Rail Group with an annual charge to reflect the fact that we should have no goodwill left at the end of Virgin Rail Groups rail franchises.
Under IFRS, on winning any new franchises, any consideration paid in excess of the relevant fair value of assets and liabilities acquired will represent a separate intangible asset, which would be amortised over the life of the franchise.
Net assets increased by 0.8m on transition at 1 May 2004 primarily due to the write back of negative goodwill within the share of net assets in Virgin Rail Group.
IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards requires that an impairment review of goodwill be conducted in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets at the date of transition irrespective of whether an indication exists that goodwill may be impaired.
A review of all of the Groups goodwill was undertaken in accordance with this standard and no further impairment losses arose as at 1 May 2004.
Under IAS 38, intangible assets are capitalised where they qualify for recognition by meeting the criteria specified within that standard.
On transition to IFRS, some of the Groups already capitalised assets met the definition of an intangible asset contained within the standard and complied with the criteria for separate recognition.
The result was that assets were reclassified and separately recognised as intangible assets as follows: Reclassified from Reclassified from Reclassified from Total goodwill tangible fixed assets receivables m m m m At 1 May 2004 0.1 Nil 1.9 2.0 Additions in year 2.4 0.3 1.2 3.9 Disposals in year Nil Nil 0.5 0.5 Amortisation in year 0.5 0.1 0.6 1.2 Translation adjustment Nil Nil 0.2 0.2 At 30 April 2005 2.0 0.2 1.8 4.0 The total intangible asset amortisation recognised for the year ended 30 April 2005 was 4.1m.
As mentioned in the employee benefits section on page 91, intangible asset amortisation of 2.9m representing the amortisation of the intangible asset recognised on transition that offsets the rail pension deficit is included in the total charge of 4.1m.
c IFRS 2, Share based Payment A summary of the impact of IFRS 2 is detailed below: Profit Equity 30 April 2005 30 April 2005 1 May 2004 m m m Operating profit 1.4 Profit for the year 1.4 Net assets Nil Nil In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised a charge to income based on the fair value of outstanding employee share options granted to employees.
The fair value has been calculated using the Black-Scholes options valuation model and is charged to profit over the expected vesting period of relevant options, adjusted to reflect actual and expected levels of vesting.
The Group has applied the optional exemption within IFRS 1, which allows it to apply IFRS 2 only to share options granted after 7 November 2002 that have not vested before the date of transition, being 1 May 2004.
The operating profit impact of adopting IFRS 2 for the year ended 30 April 2005 is a charge of 1.4m.
There is no impact on net assets.
page 92 | Stagecoach Group plc Reconciliation from UK GAAP to IFRS d IAS 10, Events After the Balance Sheet Date A summary of the impact of IAS 10 is detailed below: Profit Equity 30 April 2005 30 April 2005 1 May 2004 m m m Profit for the year Net assets 24.4 26.5 IAS 10 requires that dividends declared to equity shareholders after the balance sheet date should not be recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
This differs from the previously adopted UK GAAP treatment, which requires dividends declared after the balance sheet date to be treated as adjusting events and therefore recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
The effect of this is to increase net assets and consolidated retained earnings at 1 May 2004 by 26.5m, representing the final dividend payable under UK GAAP for the year ended 30 April 2004, and to increase net assets for the year ended 30 April 2005 by a cumulative 24.4m.
e IAS 28, Investments in Associates A summary of the impact of IAS 28 is detailed below: Profit Equity 30 April 2005 30 April 2005 1 May 2004 m m m Loss on disposed operations 1.0 Profit for the year 1.0 Net assets 1.0 Under IAS 28, where a groups share of losses of an associate exceeds its interest in the associate, that group should discontinue recognising its share of any further losses.
The same principles apply to any share of losses of joint ventures.
The result for the Group on transition is to increase net assets and consolidated retained earnings by 1.0m, being the reversal of the net liabilities of the Groups joint ventures previously recognised under UK GAAP.
During the year ended 30 April 2005, the joint ventures mentioned above were disposed of and subsequently the loss on disposed operations for the year ended 30 April 2005 was increased by 1.0m.
f IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations A summary of the impact of IFRS 5 is detailed below: Profit Equity 30 April 2005 30 April 2005 1 May 2004 m m m Operating profit 0.1 Loss on disposed operations 0.1 Profit for the year Nil Net assets Nil Nil IFRS 5 requires that any assets or disposal groups held for sale should be separately classified on the balance sheet where they meet the held for sale criteria contained within IFRS 5.
At 1 May 2004 the Groups North American taxi operations met the criteria to be classified as held for sale as a disposal group.
These businesses were disposed of by 30 April 2005.
The impact on the consolidated opening balance sheet at 1 May 2004 is to reclassify 8.1m of assets to this category and 0.8m of liabilities.
The movement for the year to 30 April 2005 reflects the disposal of these taxi companies contained within the disposal group at 1 May 2004.
Under IFRS 5 any non-current assets classified as being held for sale, whether individually or within a disposal group, should not be depreciated from the date they meet the criteria to be recognised as held for sale.
Accordingly the effect of this is to increase operating profit by 0.1m, representing the non-depreciation of property, plant and equipment within the assets held for sale.
In addition, the effect is to increase the reported loss on disposal of the taxi companies disposed of within the year to 30 April 2005 by 0.1m reflecting the increased asset values as a result of non-depreciation.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 93 Reconciliation from UK GAAP to IFRS g IFRS 1, First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment, requires initial measurement of property, plant and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The exemption in IFRS 1 allows entities to use a value that is not depreciated cost as deemed cost on transition to IFRS.
There are three possible values, any of which may be applied to any individual item of property, plant and equipment, that may be used as the basis of deemed cost at the date of transition.
One of these is the option to use the fair value of the item at the date of transition to IFRS, and allocate this as deemed cost.
We have decided to adopt this exemption allowing us to adopt the fair value of certain fixed assets being certain land and buildings of the UK Bus division on transition as deemed cost.
A summary of the impact is detailed below.
Profit Equity 30 April 2005 30 April 2005 1 May 2004 m m m Operating profit 0.3 Profit for the year 0.3 Net assets 54.2 53.9 As a result of adopting the exemption in IFRS 1, for the year ended 30 April 2005, there is an increase in operating profit and profit for the year of 0.3m, representing the reduced depreciation charge on the revalued assets.
The impact is a reduction in depreciation due to the split of deemed cost between land and buildings.
Land is not depreciated whereas buildings are.
The balance sheet impact of the implementation of this standard in the Groups consolidated IFRS balance sheet was to increase net assets by 53.9m at 1 May 2004, and by a cumulative 54.2m at 30 April 2005. h IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures A summary of the impact of IAS 31 is detailed below: Profit Equity 30 April 2005 30 April 2005 1 May 2004 m m m Operating profit 3.5 Finance costs net 1.7 Taxation 5.2 Profit for the year Nil Net assets Nil Nil IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures requires the use of either proportionate consolidation or the equity method to consolidate jointly controlled entities.
The Group will apply the equity method.
Under UK GAAP requirements, only the gross equity method is allowed and there are a number of line items in the income statement for which the investors share of its joint ventures results have to be included and disclosed: these include revenue, operating profit, interest and taxation.
There are no such requirements under IAS 31.
As a result of this, for the year ended 30 April 2005 we have reclassified 5.2m of tax charges and 1.7m of finance income relating to our joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, into a single line item in the income statement.
The results of the joint venture are now shown net of interest and taxation charges.
This is an income statement reclassification and therefore has no impact on overall net assets.
