Five year financial summary IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP UK GAAP 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m Results Revenue 1,568.5 1,420.5 1,792.3 2,076.6 2,114.4 Operating profit loss 136.1 132.9 129.7 466.2 96.5 Finance charges net 16.0 21.9 27.3 33.5 59.8 Profit loss before taxation 115.0 104.9 95.8 500.2 42.0 Tax charge credit 26.4 25.3 8.8 25.0 15.0 Profit loss attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 115.4 86.9 104.6 525.2 27.0 Net assets Non-current assets 893.4 866.7 831.7 1,259.8 1,981.0 Current assets 395.3 321.7 717.1 455.0 483.6 Current liabilities excluding provisions 439.4 517.4 674.6 504.2 524.0 Non-current liabilities excluding provisions 527.8 462.6 292.2 640.7 808.1 Provisions 109.9 93.0 192.0 252.8 223.4 Total equity 211.6 115.4 390.0 317.1 909.1 Cash and debt Cash at bank and in hand 198.5 140.0 476.5 164.7 150.0 Gross debt 334.4 354.6 544.1 724.7 924.6 Net debt UK GAAP 135.9 214.6 67.6 560.0 774.6 Cash flow Free cash flow 175.5 173.6 209.5 217.8 184.3 Ratios Earnings per ordinary share 10.6p 9.5p 6.7p 6.4p 6.3p Dividends per ordinary share 3.7p 3.3p 2.9p 2.6p 2.6p Free cash flow per ordinary share 16.3p 15.0p 15.9p 16.6p 14.1p Ordinary shares in issue at year end 1,093.6m 1,069.5m 1,335.4m 1,320.9m 1,320.9m before intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items The effect of the adoption of IFRS on the information for the year ended 30 April 2005 is given in note 36 of the Group financial statements on pages 87 to 94. page 104 | Stagecoach Group plc Registered office, advisers and financial calendar Company Secretary Principal Bankers Ross Paterson Bank of Scotland New Uberior House Registered Office 11 Earl Grey Street 10 Dunkeld Road Edinburgh EH3 9BN Perth PH1 5TW Telephone 44 0 1738 442 111 Solicitors Facsimile 44 0 1738 643 648 Shepherd & Wedderburn Email info@stagecoachgroup.
com Saltire Court 20 Castle Terrace Company Number Edinburgh EH1 2ET SC 100764 Herbert Smith Registrars Exchange House Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland Primrose Street PO Box 28506 London EC2A 2HS Finance House Orchard Brae Edinburgh EH4 1WQ Telephone 44 0 870 601 5366 Merchant Bankers Financial Calendar Noble Grossart Limited 48 Queen Street Annual General Meeting Edinburgh EH2 3NH 25 August 2006 Independent Auditors Payment Date Ordinary Shares  LLP Final Dividend Kintyre House 4 October 2006 209 West George Street Glasgow G2 2LW Interim Report December 2006 Stockbrokers Credit Suisse Interim Dividend 1 Cabot Square March 2007 London E14 4QJ Stagecoach Group plc | IBC Group Headquarters 10 Dunkeld Road Perth PH1 5TW Scotland T 44 0 1738 442 111 F 44 0 1738 643 648 www.
com Summary Annual Report 2006 STAGECOACH GROUP PLC Company No.
SC100764 Business highlights Financial highlights Results reported under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Strong operational and financial performance across the Group accounting policies Fourth year of successive earnings growth 11.6% increase in earnings per share, excluding amortisation of intangible Dividend increased by 12.1% assets and exceptional items Innovation driving growth at UK Bus 42.7% increase in basic earnings per share 2.1% like for like passenger volume growth excluding London and megabus.
com Results excluding Reported results intangible asset Acquisition of bus operations in Merseyside, Yorkshire, Lincolnshire amortisation and and Tayside exceptional items Named UK Bus Operator of the Year 2006 2005 2006 2005 Excellent performance in UK Rail Revenue from continuing operations, excluding Revenue up 5.7% acquisitions m 1,530.0 1,413.4 1,530.0 1,413.4 South West Trains operational performance among best in London Total operating profit m 156.6 153.1 136.1 132.9 and South East Profit before taxation m 140.6 131.2 115.0 104.9 Earnings per share pence 10.6p 9.5p 10.7p 7.5p 66.7m of revenue and profit share payable to DfT Proposed final dividend pence 2.6p 2.3p 2.6p 2.3p Shortlisted for South Western rail franchise innovative and value-forFull year dividend pence 3.7p 3.3p 3.7p 3.3p money bid to build on record of operational and financial achievement Free cash flow m 175.5 173.6 175.5 173.6 Named Rail Passenger Operator of the Year Net debt m 135.9 214.6 135.9 214.6 Further growth in North America Strong revenue growth overall US$ revenue from continuing operations up 11.0% Continued margin growth despite significant cost pressures Launch of budget inter-city coach service in United States Improved performance and revenue growth at Virgin Rail Group Good progress on renegotiation of West Coast franchise Conditional sale of London bus business agreed for 263.6m Bus division strategy to focus on less regulated bus operations outside London Disposal of New Zealand operations resulting in gain of 22.5m Appointment of Sir George Mathewson as a non-executive director Adjusted earnings per share Dividend per ordinary share 10.6p 3.7p 3.3p 9.5p 2.9p 2.6p 2.6p 6.7p 6.3p 6.4p 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Year ended 30 April Year ended 30 April Adjusted earnings per share is earnings per share before the amortisation The Group seeks to grow the dividend per ordinary share as earnings grow.
of intangible assets and exceptional items.
2002 to 2004 are UK GAAP Since the restructuring of the Group commenced in 2002, the dividend figures and 2005 and 2006 are IFRS figures.
per ordinary share has grown at an average cumulative annual growth rate of 9.2% and in addition, 241.3m was returned to shareholders in The Group has faced a number of challenges following its acquisition of September 2004.
Management changes were made in 2002, including Brian Souters return to the role of Chief Executive.
Since 2002, the Groups businesses have been stabilised and management has delivered significant growth in earnings per share as illustrated above.
Contents 2 Chairmans statement 11 Summary Remuneration Committee report 15 Summary consolidated cash flow 3 Chief Executives review 13 Independent auditors statement statement 4 Summary Operating and 13 Registered office and advisers 20 Shareholder information Financial Review 14 Summary consolidated income statement 10 Directors biographies 15 Summary consolidated balance sheet Stagecoach Group plc | page 1 Chairmans statement Stagecoach has achieved another strong set of results as we continue to Stagecoach has made a promising start to the new financial year to 30 April deliver shareholder value through our successful organic growth strategy in 2007 and the current trading of the Group remains in line with our our bus and rail operations in the UK and North America.
We are confident of achieving our objectives for the year.
We have produced further revenue growth in our continuing businesses and At the heart of our strong performance this year have been our employees enhanced our reputation for delivering high quality public transport services across all our operations.
Their personal commitment to first-class customer through market-leading innovation, effective marketing of our products and service is crucial as we pursue our organic growth strategy.
I would once planning for the future through targeted investment.
again like to thank all our employees for their continued hard work and support.
During the year ended 30 April 2006, we acquired additional bus operations in the UK, with the prospect of attracting even more passengers to our I would like to welcome to the Group, Sir George Mathewson, who has services.
Our excellent rail performance, both operationally and financially, joined Stagecoach as a Non-Executive Director.
He has a formidable has also put us in a strong position when competing for new franchises.
business background, including substantial experience with major UK-listed companies.
During the year, we completed the disposal of our New Zealand operations and on 23 June 2006, we agreed the conditional sale of our London bus Graham Eccles retired as an Executive Director of the Group on 30 April business to Macquarie Bank Limited for 263.6m.
I am very grateful to Graham for his significant contribution to the has been a key part of the Groups success since 1994 and the sales price Group and to the UK rail industry over many years.
represents an excellent return for our shareholders.
The sale is subject to Russell Walls retires by rotation at the next Annual General Meeting due to regulatory approval and other closing conditions, and at the present time, be held in August 2006, and he has indicated that he does not intend to we expect the sale to be completed within three months.
In UK Bus, we will seek re-election.
The Group has benefited significantly over the last six years continue to pursue our successful growth strategy outside London, where from Russells skills and experience.
Russell is the Senior Independent Nonwe are leading our peer group in attracting new passengers to public Executive Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
will determine his successor to each of these roles in due course.
Cost pressures, including fuel and insurance, remain a challenge for the Graham and Russell leave the Group with all our best wishes for the future.
Group, and we are continuing to manage these as part of our overall cost base.
We believe that we have achieved the correct balance of retaining and Our Group strategy is driven by innovation and investment, and we will growing our customer base, while maintaining a financially robust business.
continue to look for opportunities to increase shareholder value by growing our bus and rail businesses in the UK and North America.
The results for the year ended 30 April 2006 are the first full-year results to be reported in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the comparative amounts for the year ended 30 April 2005 have been restated accordingly.
Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items was 156.6m 2005: 153.1m.
Earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items were up 11.6% at 10.6p 2005: 9.5p, the fourth year of successive earnings growth following the substantial restructuring of the Group in 2002.
Given the Board of Directors confidence in the future prospects and financial strength of the Group, we are proposing a final dividend of 2.6p per share 2005: 2.3p, giving a total dividend for the year of 3.7p 2005: 3.3p.
This is an increase of 12.1% and based on continued strong, stable cash flows and profits within the business, we will look to continue progressive dividend growth.
The proposed final dividend is payable to Robert Speirs shareholders on the register at 1 September 2006 and will be paid on Chairman 4 October 2006.
Unlike UK GAAP, there is no definition of exceptional items in IFRS.
For this purpose, exceptional items are items which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence if the financial statements are to present fairly the financial performance of the Group.
page 2 | Stagecoach Group plc Chief Executives review This has been another excellent year for the Group and we have again improving customer satisfaction.
Building on these achievements, we will achieved our objective of driving growth in our business, both organically submit a powerful, value-for money bid that we believe will put us in a and through targeted acquisitions.
Our strong performance and success has strong position to win the new franchise.
resulted in independent recognition with Stagecoach companies named The two Virgin Rail Group VRG franchises, West Coast and CrossCountry, Britains best bus operator and best rail passenger operator.
have delivered improved punctuality and customer satisfaction over the last Stagecoach has further enhanced its reputation for innovation in both the year.
Virgin CrossCountry is carrying a record 20m passengers a year, bus and rail passenger transport markets through the development of new following the replacement of the entire train fleet and improved services products and new ideas to attract more customers to our services.
On West Coast, passenger volumes have increased by nearly 40% in the last eight years and there are plans to run an The Group has been able to largely offset the significant cost pressures, unprecedented 20-minute frequency on the key London-Manchester particularly in relation to fuel, being experienced by all bus operators, corridor by 2008. through its focus on continued revenue growth and close management of controllable costs.
The Group anticipates that these costs pressures will The renegotiation of the West Coast franchise is a central priority for the continue into the financial year to 30 April 2007 and it will remain proactive Group and we have been encouraged by the commitment shown by both in seeking to offset the impact of these costs.
VRGs management and the Department for Transport DfT to agreeing revised commercial terms for the period through to 2012.
We look forward During the year, we made two key acquisitions in our UK Bus business, to these terms being finalised over the next few months, resulting in a which have expanded our reach in new areas of the country and brought sustainable agreement in the long-term interests of passengers, taxpayers new opportunities to grow the market for bus travel.
The integration of and shareholders.
Glenvale Transport in Merseyside and the Traction Group operations in Yorkshire, Lincolnshire and Tayside is progressing well.
Like the West Coast franchise, Virgin CrossCountry continues to operate on the basis of annual budgets set by the DfT.
Stagecoach intends to bid jointly Our continued investment in new, accessible vehicles and industry-leading with Virgin for the new CrossCountry franchise when the tender process marketing campaigns has resulted in further organic passenger growth in starts later this year.
The new CrossCountry franchise is scheduled to start in our UK Bus division.
Our telemarketing unit, which has been highly November 2007. successful in attracting thousands of new bus users in the UK, has been expanded this year and we believe this approach can deliver further Stagecoach is also excited by the opportunities to grow its rail portfolio and impressive results.
we will consider bids for the East Midlands and West Midlands operations when the Government announces its specification for these new franchises.
Our market-leading budget inter-city travel service, megabus.
com, has again grown revenue this year, and we are excited by the prospects for our joint In North America, we have driven up revenue in our United States and venture with ComfortDelGro to provide inter-city coach services in Scotland.
Canada bus operations by concentrating on operational delivery, marketing of our core services, small bolt-on acquisitions and winning and retaining Stagecoach continues to develop productive partnerships with local contract business.
Despite fuel and insurance cost pressures, we have authorities and this approach has produced passenger volume growth at maintained our market position and we have achieved particularly our regional UK bus companies.
We were the most successful of the major impressive growth in our sightseeing operations where we have made UK bus operators in our bids for Government-funded Kickstart schemes improved use of online bookings via the Internet.
The tremendous commitment of our employees and managers has been Since the end of the financial year, we have agreed the sale of our London central to the growth of our business over the past year.
Stagecoach has been able to buck the national trend and despite significant cost pressures the Group has the potential to achieve achieve organic growth in its bus operations both inside and outside even more in the year ahead.
London although we believe there will be more moderate levels of growth in London in the future.
Against that background, our UK Bus division will focus on less regulated bus operations outside London where we can drive growth through innovation, investment and strong marketing.
Our UK Rail division continues to perform strongly, combining good profitability with excellent operational performance and improved customer satisfaction.
The current South West Trains and Island Line franchises run until February 2007.
Stagecoach is one of four remaining bidders for the new South Western franchise, which will combine the operations of South West Trains and Island Line from February 2007.
We have transformed the South West Brian Souter Trains franchise, investing in new trains, driving up punctuality and Chief Executive Stagecoach Group plc | page 3 Summary Operating and Financial Review Important note UK Bus This Summary Annual Report, including, the summary financial statements, Revenue in our UK Bus division, excluding acquisitions during the year, has is a summary of the information contained in the 2006 Annual Report and increased by 7.7% to 775.7m 2005: 720.3m and operating profit is up to Accounts.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow for a full 88.6m, compared to 87.7m in the previous year.
Operating margin was understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the 11.4% compared to 12.2% in 2005.
We are particularly pleased to report that Company or the Group.
For further information, the full annual financial excluding acquisitions, we have grown operating profit against a background statements, the auditors report on those financial statements and the report of significant increases in fuel and other costs.
In addition, the acquisitions in of the Directors should be consulted.
All shareholders receive either the the year contributed 38.5m of revenue and a 1.9m operating loss.
Summary Annual Report or the full Annual Report.
A copy of the full 2006 Annual Report and Accounts may be obtained, free of charge from the Investment, innovation and growth Companys registrar at the address and telephone number shown on page Stagecoach has an excellent track record of operating high-quality bus and 20.
If you wish to receive the full Annual Report for all future financial years coach services.
We have delivered further growth in passenger volumes at our you should inform Lloyds TSB Registrars in writing, at the same address.
UK Bus division during the year as a result of our emphasis on new product development, investment and tailored marketing initiatives.
We are Cautionary statement attracting more people out of their cars and on to our public transport services and total passenger volumes on a like for like basis, excluding The Summary Operating and Financial Review is a summary of the full London and megabus.
More than 50m has been spent Operating and Financial Review contained within the 2006 Annual Report in the past 12 months modernising our fleet, delivering more low-floor and Accounts.
The Operating and Financial Review has been prepared for the accessible buses and a more comfortable travelling environment for shareholders of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
to assist shareholders of the Company to assess the strategies adopted by the Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed and for no other We have expanded the reach of our UK Bus operations with the acquisition of purpose.
This Operating and Financial Review contains forward looking two significant independent bus businesses in the past year, Glenvale statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other Transport Limited Glenvale and Traction Group Limited Traction things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to Group.
As we anticipated at the time we acquired it, Glenvale has incurred time in the countries, sectors and markets in which the Group operates.
It is losses as we restructure the operations.
Revenue from the date of acquisition believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable to 30 April 2006 was 17.4m and the operating loss was 2.3m.
Traction but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause Group, which has operations in Yorkshire, Lincolnshire and Tayside, actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
No contributed 21.1m to revenue and made an operating profit of 0.4m in assurances can be given that the forward looking statements in this the period since acquisition to 30 April 2006.
Operating and Financial Review will be realised.
The forward looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of megabus.
com, our market-leading inter-city bus service now has a network preparation.
A full copy of the 2006 Operating and Financial Review can be of services covering more than 40 locations in the UK.
More modern doublefound on the Companys website at decker coaches and a comprehensive package of press, billboard, radio and http: www.
com scg ir finanalysis reports web-based marketing have helped drive further passenger growth.
Around two million passengers have travelled with megabus.
com during the year and we have improved both the average load factor and the average fare.
Group business objectives and longterm Provincial and city networks strategy We have achieved further organic passenger growth in our UK Bus division.
The key elements of Stagecoach Groups business strategy to deliver longGrowth in our provincial and city networks has been driven by our focus on term shareholder value are: customer profiling research and targeted marketing.
Our telemarketing unit To deliver organic growth across all of the Groups operations: at our headquarters in Perth has been expanded to launch new campaigns in the UK to encourage non-users to switch to bus travel.
These campaigns, To acquire businesses that are complementary to the Groups existing which include the offer of a weeks free travel and focus in particular on operations, in areas where the Groups management has proven expertise parents and car users, have resulted in significant numbers of non-users and which offer prospective returns on capital in excess of the Groups switching to the bus.
weighted average cost of capital: Impressive passenger volume growth has been achieved in a number of our In addition to organic and acquisition growth, to maintain and grow the provincial networks, including Newcastle, Sheffield, Basingstoke, Devon, Groups UK Rail division by bidding for selected rail franchises and to seek Thanet, Banbury, Barrow, and Merthyr.
We have also achieved further to secure new franchises where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
This passenger growth in our flagship operations in Cambridge on the citi part of the strategy includes working with VRG to secure an acceptable branded network, supported by the introduction of real time information on renegotiated West Coast Trains franchise.
In Oxford, we have attracted more passengers on our Oxford Tube high-frequency express coach service to and from London and grown A fundamental objective underlying this strategy is the continued provision our market share on this competitive corridor.
In Scotland, we have achieved of safe and reliable services to passengers.
passenger volume growth of 1.8% in our Western business, which was Stagecoach Group has demonstrated particular strength in managing bus named 2005 UK Bus Operator of the Year.
and coach businesses that operate scheduled services in a relatively deregulated environment.
The Groups focus is on operations with critical The integration of Traction and Glenvale is progressing well.
In Merseyside, mass in their own local markets.
In rail, Stagecoachs skill centres on organic we are focusing on developing strong core services as well as operating revenue and passenger volume growth, the management of significant tendered routes on behalf of Merseytravel.
We have completed a major change projects, the delivery of improved operational performance, and driving up customer satisfaction.
References to the operating profit loss or operating margin of a particular business throughout the Summary Operating and Financial Review mean operating profit loss or operating margin before amortisation of intangible assets, exceptional items and restructuring costs.
page 4 | Stagecoach Group plc vehicle replacement programme, which has resulted in more than half of the previous year.
Converted to sterling, revenue for the year was 247.6m 2005: Glenvale fleet being upgraded.
Following the decision by the Office of Fair 220.8m.
Operating profit excluding megabus for the year was 17.7m Trading not to refer the acquisition of Traction to the Competition 2005: 15.5m, and the operating loss of megabus in North America was Commission, we have made a number of improvements to integrate the 0.8m 2005: Nil, including marketing and other start-up costs.
business into our UK Bus operations.
A new integrated bus and tram network We continue to experience strong revenue growth in our highly successful has been launched in Sheffield, delivering cheaper fares and better services to sightseeing businesses.
The growth has been helped by the introduction of people in the city.
new double-decker buses and improved tours and marketing.
London We have seen further revenue and passenger growth in our express, In June 2006, the Group agreed the conditional sale of its London bus commuter and scheduled airport services.
operations to Macquarie Bank Limited.
The business operates bus services in We have achieved a 100% contract retention rate in the past year and have south and south-east London on behalf of Transport for London TfL.
The been awarded a number of new contracts in our Chicago, Wisconsin and proceeds are expected to be around 264m and the sale will result in a Pittsburgh businesses, while our Chicago tour operations have expanded consolidated net gain on disposal of approximately 120.0m.
Partnership Student transportation services in Wisconsin have continued to grow and we Stagecoach continues to work closely with a range of stakeholders at local have expanded in the state through the acquisition of a 30-school bus and national level to improve the quality of bus provision for our customers.
Strong partnerships are the key to improving services and delivering value for money to taxpayers, a view that has been endorsed by the Government.
We Charter revenues are up year on year and forward bookings are ahead of the welcome the DfTs review of competition arrangements to make it easier to same period last year, assisted by improved online booking capabilities achieve sensible co-operation between operators on timetables and fares through our redesigned Coach USA website.
We have made a small bolt-on where this is in customers interests.
In Scotland and Wales, we continue to acquisition of a charter business in southern Pennsylvania.
During the year, work with the devolved administrations to successfully deliver the we closed some small under-performing charter locations in western New concessionary fares schemes.
We welcome the recent commitment by the York State and reduced our casino services.
Government to introduce a national free travel scheme for the elderly in In Canada, revenue has grown by more than 25% despite a very competitive England from 2008.
Our bus companies are also looking forward to building environment.
Significant new contracts have been secured with the Greater relationships with Transport Scotland, the new National Transport Agency Toronto Airports Authority and strong growth has also been achieved in for Scotland, and the regional transport partnerships.
Stagecoach is working transit contracts.
with a number of local authorities on smartcard, multi-operator ticketing schemes and real time information, in places such as Manchester, Cambridge and south-west England, to make travel easier for passengers.
Several of our UK Rail companies also have close links with businesses and educational The Groups rail division has had another excellent year, with continued establishments to encourage travel by public transport.
growth in revenue, including strong season ticket sales.
Park and ride Revenue from our UK Rail subsidiaries for the year ended 30 April 2006 was We believe there is significant potential to develop park and ride around the up by 5.7% to 506.7m 2005: 479.4m.
Operating profit increased to UK as a solution to the problem of increasing congestion.
partner with local authorities in a number of major park and ride sites where Revenue was adversely affected by the terrorist attacks in London in July there has been significant growth.
In November 2005, as part of our dynamic 2005, particularly revenue from off-peak travel.
The impact on profit was less bus strategy for Manchester, we unveiled proposals for a series of park and significant due to the revenue and profit share arrangements that South ride sites at key interchanges on the M60 motorway to help cut city centre West Trains has with the DfT.
congestion and promote bus use.
Stagecoach is also investigating the potential of commercial park and ride operations around the UK, where the The reported operating profit is after deducting 66.7m 2005: 46.0m of operator would also buy and manage the facility, drawing on experience in amounts payable to the DfT under the revenue and profit sharing the United States.
arrangements at South West Trains.
Rail bid costs of 11.7m 2005: 3.0m were expensed during the year ended Kick Start 30 April 2006 in arriving at the UK Rail operating profit of 58.9m 2005: Stagecoach was the most successful large bus operator in the UK in the latest 50.0m.
These were principally in relation to the ongoing work on the bid round of funding allocations from the DfT for Kickstart schemes to fund new for the South Western franchise and the unsuccesful bids on the Greater bus services.
More than 40% of the funding available was allocated to Western, Great Northern Thameslink and Integrated Kent franchises.
Stagecoach partnership schemes, which was a reflection of our success in using this model to generate organic passenger growth.
We are also South West Trains operating a number of Bus Route Development Grant schemes with support South West Trains was named Passenger Operator of the Year and Rail from the Scottish Executive and other initiatives backed by the devolved Business of the Year within the past 12 months, reflecting our commitment administration in Wales.
Recent operational performance at what is arguably the UKs biggest and most complex franchise is amongst the best achieved by train North America operating companies in London and the South East with 90% of trains North American trading continues to be encouraging, despite ongoing cost arriving on time punctuality measured on the basis of the DfTs Passenger pressures in relation to fuel and insurance.
Cost pressures have resulted in the Performance Measure.
closure of a number of smaller competitors and in some areas we have been able to absorb the additional customer base.
Providing a clean, safe, punctual and reliable service has resulted in the highest ever overall passenger satisfaction ratings achieved to date at South In March 2006, we launched our budget coach operation, megabus.
com, in West Trains, jumping from 78% last spring to 83% in Spring 2006 measured the United States.
Passengers can travel on daily non-stop express coach as the percentage of passengers surveyed who were satisfied with their services between Chicago and other Midwest cities from as low as US$1.
Revenue from North America for the year ended 30 April 2006 was In the last year, together with third parties, we have invested more than 7m US$439.5m 2005: US$409.1m.
On a like for like basis, revenue was up in station refurbishments and security enhancements across the South West by 9.7%.
Operating profit excluding megabus was US$31.5m 2005: Trains network.
US$28.7m, resulting in an operating margin of 7.2%, compared to 7.0% the Stagecoach Group plc | page 5 Summary Operating and Financial Review megatrain.
com, our budget rail service offering seats on off-peak services this line.
The disposed New Zealand operations contributed profit after from just 1 plus booking fee, has attracted 50,000 passengers since we taxation of 4.3m 2005: 7.3m to the overall Group profit.
The disposal of launched the first two trial routes in November 2005.
The service has New Zealand also resulted in a gain of 22.5m in the current year.
proved extremely successful in making the most efficient use of the capacity on the rail network.
com was extended to seven Joint Ventures additional locations on the South West Trains network in April 2006, Virgin Rail Group offering 5,000 cheap seats a week, and since June 2006, megatrain.
com Our share of VRGs revenue for the 12-month period amounted to 357.4m has started selling tickets on more than a fifth of all Virgin CrossCountry 2005: 315.2m and our share of profit after finance income and taxation services.
We are in discussions with the DfT about making the was 5.5m 2005: 10.7m.
Of this, operating profit was 5.3m 2005: megatrain.
South West Trains continues to work hard to maximise capacity on the network.
We have entered into a lease for a further 17 Desiro class 450 trains, Both of VRGs franchises currently operate on the basis of annual budgets which will provide an extra 4,500 seats during peak times, and all units are set by the DfT whereby the franchises earn a specified profit before tax expected to be in passenger service by the end of the franchise.
VRGs negotiations with the Government over new commercial has also been reached to lease nine three-car Class 158 trains to replace terms for the West Coast franchise that extends through to 2012 are existing two-car trains on the West of England line, with the first of these progressing well and we look forward to an agreement being reached later expected to enter service in October 2006. this year.
Our objective is to secure an arrangement which is sustainable and in the long-term interests of passengers, taxpayers and shareholders.
The 67m refurbishment of the Class 455 fleet operating on suburban routes is progressing well.
The partnership project with the DfT, TfL, Porterbrook In our announcement of our interim results for the six months ended 31 and Bombardier is expected to be completed by Spring 2008, delivering October 2005, we explained that the results included the benefit of improved reliability and better passenger circulation due to the revised additional financial support that VRG expected to receive from the DfT.
We internal layout of the units.
are pleased to report that VRG and the DfT have now agreed the total financial support for VRGs financial year to 4 March 2006 and the DfT has Island Line now paid this in full to VRG.
Island line became the first rail operation in the UK to be designated as a Passenger numbers are continuing to grow on West Coast, with annual Community Rail route by the DfT in March 2006.
Designation changes the journeys now approaching 19 million an increase of 20% on the previous approach to running the line, with greater emphasis on local management year.
Revenue has also increased significantly as the improved performance and meeting local needs.
Various initiatives have been and are being of the Pendolino trains continue to generate new traffic.
VRG has been implemented on this line, including additional car parking and a park and ride particularly successful in competing with the airlines on the key scheme.
Separately, Island Line is being assisted by South West Trains on a LondonManchester route.
Over the last two years, rails share of the project to modernise its ticketing machines.
combined rail airline market has increased from one third to around two thirds on that route.
Customer service has also improved and, in the latest Supertram National Passenger Survey Spring 2006, 90% of passengers were satisfied Passenger volumes at Sheffield Supertram continue to grow and the tram with their overall journey experience.
operation is now carrying a record 13 million people a year.
A major threeyear project has been launched to refresh the livery and interiors of the 25- The Virgin CrossCountry franchise has grown passenger journeys by 7% over strong tram fleet and the first of the improved vehicles entered service in the past year and now carries in excess of 20 million passengers a year.
The programme will improve comfort and accessibility for Customer satisfaction has been further improved and in the latest National passengers, as well as help to maintain the fleets high standard of Passenger Survey Spring 2006, 84% of passengers were satisfied with their reliability.
Stagecoach launched a new integrated tram and bus network in overall journey experience.
Sheffield in May 2006, offering joint tram and bus ticketing.
Further marketing activity has focused on students and an improved website.
The Government announced in October 2005 that a new CrossCountry franchise would be created by incorporating the current Central Trains interRail franchising opportunities regional routes into the existing CrossCountry network.
As part of the reStagecoach is delighted to have been shortlisted for the new South Western mapping process, the DfT also announced its decision to re-let the franchise, which runs from February 2007 and is made up of the current CrossCountry franchise and the pre-qualification process is expected to South West Trains and Island Line networks.
We believe our record of begin in the summer of 2006.
Stagecoach and Virgin plan to submit a joint achievement at South West Trains will enhance the Groups bid for the new bid for the franchise through VRG.
Based on its strong track record of franchise.
Passengers are benefiting from record investment in new trains, passenger growth and performance improvements, we believe VRG will be consistently high operational performance, as well as innovation with new well placed to win any tender for the new CrossCountry franchise.
ideas such as our budget train service, megatrain.
We are delivering for passengers, taxpayers and our shareholders, and we will be submitting Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited innovative and competitive proposals to the Government by 30 June.
A final We are excited by the prospects for our joint venture with ComfortDelGro to decision is expected from Government in Autumn 2006. operate inter-city coach services in Scotland, which we believe can compete strongly with existing rail services and attract car users to public transport.
We were disappointed that our bids for the Thameslink Great Northern and Greater Western franchises and our joint bid with DSB for the Integrated Kent Our share of Scottish Citylink Coaches Limiteds Citylink revenue from franchise were unsuccessful.
However, we will continue to bid for future rail the inception of the joint venture in September 2005 to 30 April 2006 franchises on what we believe to be an acceptable risk profile, offering good amounted to 3.8m and our share of operating profit was 0.1m.
The value for both the Government and our shareholders.
We are excited by the business is seasonally strongest over the Summer and therefore these opportunities to grow our rail portfolio, which include the new East Midlands results do not reflect the most profitable part of the year.
Stagecoach also plans to bid jointly with Virgin The Office of Fair Trading decided in March 2006 to refer the Citylink joint for the new CrossCountry franchise when it is tendered later this year.
All venture to the Competition Commission.
While we were surprised and three of these new franchises are expected to commence in November 2007. disappointed at this decision, we are assisting the Commission with its enquiries and have had positive discussions to date.
We are confident that New Zealand the Commission will realise the main competition to the coach is the car and inter-city rail services and that the joint venture can deliver the biggest The results of the discontinued New Zealand division are included within the improvement to inter-city coach services in Scotland in years.
profit for the year from discontinued operations line on the face of the income statement with the prior year comparative results also reclassified to page 6 | Stagecoach Group plc of the art Operations Training Centre are continuing to deliver benefits to Current trading and outlook our employees and better service to our customers.
South West Trains also The current financial year to 30 April 2007 has started well and trading is in has in place vocational training, support for managers, employee recognition line with our expectations.
There are a number of exciting opportunities programmes and round-the-clock open learning access for its staff.
across the Group and we are confident of achieving our objectives for the year.
In North America, we have set up a centralised driver training school, which has improved our recruitment and training processes.
Our Canadian business has focused closely on improved screening of job applicants prior to training Corporate social responsibility and this has resulted in improvements in the quality of employees recruited.
Stagecoach Group takes its corporate responsibilities seriously and the We are also looking to develop the managers of the future through our responsible way we do business is firmly embedded in our Groups culture.
graduate recruitment initiative at Stagecoach UK Bus and South West Trains.
From our approach to safety and the environment, to how we treat our Our engineering apprenticeship programme in the UK promotes careers people, our customers, our local communities and other key stakeholders, through local schools and career development agencies.
We have also worked we have a very clear set of values.
closely with government-funded enterprise agencies to get the long-term As well as providing a range of economic and environmental benefits, our unemployed back into work, because many have vital skills that are being bus and rail services help promote social inclusion and bring people overlooked.
We are committed to encouraging more people to use public Stagecoach wants to be there to help our people when they need it most.
This is central to our growth strategy, to the future success of example, at South West Trains we have a partnership with Care First, which our Group, and also important to the future of the communities in which offers an employee assistance programme that includes a 24-hour we operate around the world.
We have the same long-term goal of confidential counselling service and legal helpline.
sustainable development as our stakeholders and it is in our collective interest to have an ongoing dialogue on how that can best be achieved.
We are one of a number of employers across the UK involved in a pilot scheme to research and test various ways to improve financial capability in Our Code of Business Conduct, which can be found on our website at the workplace.
The multi-agency project - co-ordinated by the Financial www.
com scg media publications policydocs codeofconduct.
pdf, Services Authority FSA, the independent financial watchdog - involves confirms our core values and policies in a number of areas: how we deal offering our staff one to one surgeries and hard copy material.
The workplace with our employees, suppliers, customers, competitors, and the wider is seen as an ideal way to get information and education on finance to adults communities in which we work.
These values apply to every director, and active participation by employers is vital.
The pilot is part of a national manager and employee in all our companies across our global operations.
strategy to improve access to information, advice and personal finance education, so that consumers are better equipped to make sound choices It is one thing to have a vision, but how that vision is implemented is when looking after their money and their future financial security.
Like any business in any sector, we can get better.
We are continually striving to improve our policies, practices and service Accessibility delivery to make an increasingly positive impact on society and the We recognise that every customer we serve has their own specific individual environment.
Building trust with our stakeholders in the wider community needs and accessibility is a key factor in providing attractive public transport is vital and providing clear information on our progress and performance services.
As far as possible within the resources we have available, we are is part of that process.
continuing to make it easier for people to use our bus and rail services.
This Stagecoach has put in place a number of performance indicators that includes tailoring our network and frequency of services to meet demand.
reflect our engagement with a range of stakeholders and these are tracked We have made further progress during the year on our long-term on a regular basis.
programme to ensure all our buses in the UK are fully low-floor.
We have announced a further investment in new accessible vehicles in the UK for the Stakeholders year ending 30 April 2007.
We are also helping provide demand responsive Stagecoach Group works in partnership with a range of bodies in each of the transport services in the UK, which are meeting the needs of those with markets where we provide public transport services.
mobility problems who require a service from their front door.
Our People Significant investment is also taking place in our North American business, Stagecoach is a people business and it is the quality of our employees that where we continue to lead the industry in terms of accessibility.
As well as ensure we can deliver a first-class quality of service day in, day out.
They are introducing new coaches that meet the Americans with Disabilities Act crucial to our objective of attracting more people to public transport.
None of legislation, we have an ongoing programme to retro-fit coaches with lifts this happens by chance.
We invest significant time and resources to ensure each year.
we have the right people on board to deliver what our customers need.
On the South West Trains network, we provide station-based ramps to We respect and value our staff, and we have a strong commitment to equal enable wheelchair users to board and alight trains with maximum opportunities and partnership working with trade unions.
To support the access of wheelchair users to our network, we are now committed to providing wheelchair users with accessible taxis to and As a major employer, we also recognise the need for ongoing training and from stations with step-free access at no extra charge.
development, not just so our people can do their job, but so they can develop individually.
In our UK Bus division, we have one of the best vocational Access for all is also about staff training and we continue to maintain links training programmes of any UK Bus operator, designed to raise standards with disability groups to ensure both the needs of our passengers and among and recognise the key contribution of our drivers.
To date, some employees are considered.
At Sheffield Supertram, for example, the first of 60.9% of our UK Bus drivers have either achieved or are working towards the our trams have been refreshed with textured grab rails and improved seating S NVQ qualification.
Our close focus on recruitment and retention has layouts to help passengers with visual impairment.
We are also currently resulted in achieving a full complement of drivers.
This has been assisted by undertaking trials of new higher visibility destination blinds and investigating improved pay, better training and mentoring schemes.
the potential for automated public address announcements.
South West Trains achieved Investors in People status in September 2005 as Many people now access transport information online and our awarda result of its huge investment in its employees to ensure they have the right winning Stagecoach Group website, www.
com, has been skills, knowledge, experience and behaviour to provide a first-class service to developed in line with accessibility guidelines drawn up by the Royal National passengers.
South West Trains centralised Recruitment Centre and the state Institute for the Blind.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 7 Summary Operating and Financial Review part of our commitment to a safe, well-rested team.
Management Health and Safety performance incentives include targets related to the reduction of As a major international public transport operator, a commitment to the preventable accidents.
The management team in the United States has highest standards of safety is at the heart of our business.
We strictly adhere continued to support the work of the Federal Government and other to legislative regulations in all our areas of operation.
Breach of these agencies in implementing anti-terrorism measures.
We have now installed regulations could result in criminal and or civil legal proceedings, fines and GPS tracking in more than 1,000 coaches for security and monitoring potential loss of contracts and licences to operate.
In Canada, we have a dedicated Occupational Health and Safety excellent safety record and we have a proactive culture across the Group that Policy Committee whose members are drawn equally from management and ensures the health and safety of our customers and our employees is our top workforce representatives.
Health and safety is monitored and reported on across Stagecoach Group and immediate action is taken to address issues in our business Public transport whether by bus, coach, train or tram - remains the safest processes.
We have a Health, Safety and Environmental Committee that way to travel.
Stagecoach Group itself has a good safety record, but we are considers health, safety and environmental issues across the Group and not complacent and we constantly keep our safety arrangements under reports to the Board on these matters.
The Committee is chaired by a nonreview.
Safety matters are also considered at the Board and management meetings of each of our businesses.
Our employees are Environment provided with appropriate health and safety training and encouraged to The Group is committed to making continuing progress in improving the report any concerns.
We expect our suppliers and contractors to have a environmental management of its operations and helping to build a similar commitment to complying with appropriate regulations in this area.
Across our global operations, we provide support and training for our employees to ensure compliance with legislation, as well Safety and security issues around public transport were highlighted by the as effective waste management, and improved energy consumption and terrorist attacks in London in July 2005.
Stagecoach operated both of the environmental performance.
Our Environmental Policy sets out our buses that were targeted in the attacks and our employees have been commitment to good environmental stewardship and we have put in place commended for their response to these tragic incidents.
We will continue to stretching targets to reduce emissions, cut water and energy consumption, stress the need for vigilance by our staff and customers, while at the same minimise waste and identify opportunities for recycling.
time ensuring accessibility to our public transport services.
Stagecoach has made further progress this year in improving the In our UK Bus division, we are working in partnership with government and environmental management of our operations and helping to build a other agencies to improve bus safety and security.
While crime and vandalism sustainable environment.
We believe public transport can play a significant rates are relatively low, we are aware they can discourage people from part in reducing pollution, cutting congestion and contributing to a higher travelling on buses.
Stagecoach signed the UKs largest single order for CCTV quality of life in our communities.
Stagecoach is also taking steps to ensure in buses in the UK in April 2006.
The 1.2m deal will ensure all new buses its operations are carried out in a responsible manner.
ordered by Stagecoach for delivery during the year ending 30 April 2007 will be fitted with state-of-the-art digital CCTV systems from LOOK CCTV.
As well We have worked closely with consultants Arthur D Little to measure the as assisting in our drive to increase on-board security for our passengers and environmental impact of our transport operations in the past 12 months.
employees, the systems can check the movement of traffic and pedestrians Arthur D Little have also assisted in setting new stretching targets as part of as part of an accident prevention campaign.
our commitment to good environmental stewardship.
These key performance indicators cover reductions in emissions, lower water and Stagecoach has a number of joint programmes in place with schools and the energy consumption, minimising waste and identifying opportunities for police to deter anti-social behaviour and educate the next generation of recycling.
We are also working with a number of local authorities in areas such as Oxford, Mansfield, Cheltenham and Gloucester to develop Our internal processes designed to track environmental data have been late night bus networks to help reduce town centre crime.
At an operational further strengthened this year and have extended the measurement of our level, we have in place a process of route risk assessments to identify performance to cover our operations in Canada.
New Zealand operations, potential safety issues.
As well as our own investment in ongoing driver which were divested in December 2005, are not included in the data for the training, we are supporting the work of the Road Operators Safety Council to year ended 30 April 2006. drive up standards in the industry.
Stagecoach has also helped fund safety campaigns focused on other road users, including cyclists and drivers of Full details of our performance, compiled in conjunction with Arthur D Little, agricultural vehicles.
can be found on the Stagecoach Group website at http: www.
com scg csr environment performance.
South West Trains SWT is involved in the ground-breaking TravelSafe Officer security and anti-crime partnership with British Transport Police.
The We have delivered further improvement in the direct emissions per passenger initiative continues to help reduce crime across the network and SWT has journey from our bus and train fleets.
This has been achieved through our also received 47 Secure Station awards, more than any other train operating investment in new vehicles and rolling stock, as well as through the use of company.
The successful withdrawal of Mark 1 rolling stock and the full new fuels and cleaner technologies.
Stagecoach has ordered a number of introduction of the Desiro fleet has helped deliver a safer and more secure new Euro 4 engined vehicles for our bus operations in the UK, which have the railway.
Passengers are also benefiting from CCTV improvements and better potential to deliver improved fuel consumption and engine reliability.
The lighting at 53 South West Trains stations within the London area.
Work has use of biodiesel has been increased to around 1,800 buses in the UK and we also been undertaken to further enchance SWTs Safety Management are continuing to use the Envirox fuel additive across our UK Bus fleet.
System, supported by training and briefing programmes for employees.
Stagecoach is also involved in a number of projects to fit exhaust gas reImplementation of our Engineering Competency Management System is also circulation systems to some of our vehicles in the UK.
More than 1500 of our continuing.
As well as improved contractor management, SWT has buses in the UK are now fitted with CRTs, a 24% increase from 30 April 2005. developed a new safety training programme for trade union health and In our North American operations, we are the first company in New York to safety representatives.
This total commitment to safety led to SWT winning fit our buses for use with low sulphur fuel, which significantly reduces the Sir Robert Horton Safety Award at the National Rail Awards in 2005. emissions.
The Group has also introduced more accurate calculation methods to assess our performance in the area of direct emissions, particularly in our In North America, we continue to meet or exceed all Federal and State UK Rail division.
regulations in the area of safety.
Regular safety audits are carried out at our facilities to ensure high standards of health and safety are maintained.
We Indirect emissions from our bus operations on a per passenger journey basis have enhanced our driver recruitment and training policies, as well as have dropped significantly over the past 12 months.
As well as being reducing the maximum permitted continuous hours of service for drivers, as influenced by the growth in passenger volumes, this has been assisted in page 8 | Stagecoach Group plc particular by ongoing efforts to reduce energy consumption at our UK Bus During the year ended 30 April 2006, Stagecoach Group donated 0.6m sites.
We are working with Manchester-based Vickers Electronic Limited to 2005: 0.3m to help many worthwhile causes, including many health introduce a specialist Energy Management System, which is in use at more charities and local community projects in areas where we provide lifeline than 50 sites.
As well as cost savings, the system is benefiting the public transport services.
Consumption savings at 29 gas-fired Stagecoach sites are In July 2005, many people lost their lives as a result of the terrorist attack in running at more than 11,000,000 kWh per annum, which represents an London and these shocking events touched our Group directly.
The Group emissions reduction of more than 4,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide per year.
donated 100,000 to the London Bombings Relief Fund, which was set up by While indirect emissions per passenger journey and in total have increased in the Mayor of London in association with the British Red Cross to help provide our rail operations, this reflects the continued introduction of Desiro trains.
practical assistance to the victims families.
Stagecoach also matched the As well as offering a greatly improved travelling experience for passengers, fund-raising of its employees around the country who wanted to play their these state-of-the-art trains use higher levels of electricity than earlier rolling part in responding positively to these tragic events.
Since 2003, the Groups indirect emissions from energy consumption at offices and depots have reduced by 14.4%.
Hundreds of our employees devote their own time every day to local projects that make a real difference in their area.
Our businesses provide muchWater consumption in our bus operations has reduced per passenger journey needed in-kind support, while our people also give charities the benefit of by more than 50%, assisted by the introduction of upgraded wash facilities, their expertise during secondments.
We also believe in recognising the better wash management and initiatives to identify and repair water system contribution local people make in their own communities every year, which is leaks.
The water consumption at our rail operations on a per passenger why we have co-sponsored Scotlands annual Our Heroes Awards.
journey basis has remained at similar levels to the previous year.
Much of the backing we provide is focused on education and young people, The Group is continuing to focus on improving the collection of data around assisting oragnisations such as the National Society for the Prevention of the production of vehicle maintenance and other waste in its UK and North Cruelty to Children, NCH, the childrens charity, and PiggybankKids, which American operations.
South West Trains, for example, has introduced a supports a wide range of childrens projects.
complete waste management system called Garbology where pressure crushers are used to compress waste and maximise the space available for We work closely with schools and police on local crime prevention initiatives waste disposal.
We are also reviewing what measures can be taken to and education of youngsters about the dangers and consequences of antiincrease the proportion of waste recycled from our bus and rail operations.
Stagecoach is backing an innovative education, prevention While waste recycled from our rail operations has increased from 6.2% in the and intervention programme designed to educate parents, and other carers, 12 months to 30 April 2005 to 40.0% in the 12 months to 30 April 2006, about drugs.
The initiative, developed by the national charity Care for the waste recycled from our bus operations has dropped from 31.9% in the 12 Family, gives parents the information and skills they need to help their months to 30 April 2005 to 29% in the 12 months to 30 April 2006. children understand the harmful use of drugs, alcohol and tobacco.
With the support of Stagecoach, more than 1,000 parents in South Manchester will be Across our operations, we provide support and training for our employees to able to benefit from tailored How to Drug Proof Your Kids courses.
Our ensure compliance with legislation, as well as effective waste management, support also assists many local initiatives that help provide opportunities for and improved energy consumption and environmental performance.
Stagecoach recently pioneered the Park & Read concept in environmental training programme at our UK Bus division has been fully Cambridge as part of World Book Day, offering quick read books on all park & revised.
Around 200 depot managers, safety representatives and supervisors ride services.
In Scotland, we are involved in innovative street football and have been trained in the last two years, with all key personnel to be trained twilight league initiatives in conjunction with local clubs and the police.
every three years on a rolling programme.
In Manchester, a campaign is currently underway on all new double deck vehicles to reduce engine idling Stagecoach is also helping promote social inclusion with our communities to time to a maximum of 15 minutes, after which the engine will shut down.
help those who are the most vulnerable.
A national agreement with Guide We have also continued our support for the road safety charity Brake and Dogs for the Blind, for example, allows the dog trainers free travel on our other organisations to benchmark and share good practice in safe driving and buses.
driving methods designed to improve fuel efficiency.
At South West Trains, We have continued to support the UK educational charity businessdynamics, Wimbledon Traincare depot has achieved ISO14001 accreditation and other which provides courses designed to build the skills and confidence of young units are currently being assessed by the British Standards Institute as part of people as they prepare to enter the worlds of work and further education.
our commitment to continuous improvement in environmental management.
Our South West Trains rail franchise operates services in 13 different English counties, where we are involved in many projects to boost social inclusion In many areas, Stagecoach is working in partnership with major employers to across our extensive network.
The Lymington Heritage Line was launched last help develop travel plans that reduce the dependence of employees on the year with the purchase and refurbishment of two trains, now in their original car to get to work.
The initiative, which is helping to make the line more cost Stagecoach has made further improvements and investment in the area of effective and safeguard its future, has won a National Community Rail Award.
environmental sustainability over the past year, however we recognise that The DfT is now concluding consultation regarding proposed designation of we can do more.
We want to build on the progress we have made and, as the route as a Community Rail Line.
part of our commitment, we have set new stretching environmental targets Overseas, a convoy of coaches from our United States operations helped across our business.
assist the Hurricane Katrina relief effort in New Orleans.
The support team helped evacuate some of the thousands of people made homeless by the Community investment and charitable activities disaster.
Coach USA employees also donated bottled water, food items and For more than 25 years, Stagecoach has been a key part of local communities toiletries, which were delivered to the American Red Cross to be distributed around the world.
As well as providing lifeline transport services and to those in need.
significant job opportunities, the Group is committed to investing in each of the communities we serve.
We want local people to share in our success and These are only a small number of examples of our work in supporting and that is why every year we help fund the vital work of local, national and working with our local communities.
This approach has been a cornerstone international charities.
of our business philosophy for more than a quarter of a century and we will continue to work hard to be a responsible part of these communities in the future.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 9 Robert Speirs Brian Souter Martin Griffiths Graham Eccles Ann Gloag OBE Ewan Brown CBE Iain Duffin Sir George Mathewson Dr Janet Morgan Russell Walls Directors biographies 1 Robert Speirs, Non-Executive Chairman 7 Ann Gloag OBE, Non-Executive Director Robert Speirs has been a non-executive director of the Group since March 1995.
In July Ann Gloag co-founded Stagecoach in 1980 and served as an executive director until 2002, he was appointed by the Board as Non-Executive Chairman.
She became a member of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee non-executive director of Victoria Mortgage Funding Ltd and Chairman of the Miller in June 2005.
She is a past winner of the Businesswoman of the Year Award and Group Ltd.
He is a former Group Finance Director of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
European Women in Achievement Award.
She is an international Board member of Robert Speirs is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
In June 2004, she was awarded an OBE for services to charity.
2 Brian Souter, Chief Executive 8 Sir George Mathewson, Non-Executive Director The co-founder of Stagecoach, Brian Souter is the architect of the Groups strategy and Sir George Mathewson joined the Group as a non-executive director on 8 June 2006. philosophy.
He has extensive knowledge of the ground transportation industry around He was Chairman of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Royal Bank until his the world and is responsible for managing all of the Groups operations.
He is also retirement on 28 April 2006.
Sir George is currently an advisor to the Royal Bank and is Chairman of ScotAirways Group Ltd.
He was named Businessman of the Year at the also a director of the Scottish Investment Trust plc.
In November 2001, he was Insider Elite Awards 2004 and is a Chartered Accountant.
Aged 52. appointed to the Board of Directors of the Institute of International Finance and in June 2005, he became president of the International Monetary Conference.
Sir George 3 Martin Griffiths, Finance Director joined the Advisory Committee of Bridgepoint Capital Limited in January 2004 and in November 2004, he was appointed a member of the Financial Reporting Council.
Sir Appointed Finance Director in April 2000, Martin Griffiths is responsible for the Groups George is also chairman of Toscafund Holdings, a hedge fund.
Aged 66. overall financial policy, taxation and treasury management.
He also has responsibility for the overall management of the Groups property portfolio and supports the Chief 9 Dr Janet Morgan, Non-Executive Director Executive in all aspects of new business development across the Group.
He is a member of the Groups Pension Oversight Committee and was a director of Trainline Holdings Dr Janet Morgan, Lady Balfour of Burleigh, became a non-executive director in April Limited up until June 2006.
He won the Young Scottish Finance Director of the Year 2001.
She is Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environmental Committee and is a Award in 2004 and is a Chartered Accountant.
Aged 40. member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
She is also Chairman of the Nuclear Liabilities Fund and is a non-executive director of Murray 4 Graham Eccles, Executive Director Rail retired 30 April 2006 International Investment Trust and other companies.
She was a non-executive director of BPB plc until December 2005.
Dr Morgan is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Graham Eccles has over 40 years experience in the rail industry and has held a number Edinburgh, a Trustee of the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland and a of senior management posts.
Up until his retirement in April 2006, he was a member Trustee of the National Library of Scotland.
She was a member of the Central Policy of the Board, which he joined in September 2000 and prior to that was Managing Review Staff of the Cabinet Office.
Director of South West Trains from 1999.
He was responsible for the management of all the Groups rail operations.
In addition, he had main board responsibility for Group 10 Russell Walls, Non-Executive Director safety matters and was also a member of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee until earlier this year.
Appointed as a non-executive director in June 2000, Russell Walls is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee and the 5 Ewan Brown CBE, Non-Executive Director Nomination Committee.
He is the senior independent non-executive director.
He is Chairman of Delphic Europe Limited, a non-executive director of Signet Group plc and Ewan Brown has been a non-executive director of the Group since 1988 and chairs the Aviva plc and is a member of the Conflicts Clearance Committee of the ABN AMRO Groups Pensions Oversight Committee.
He is a non-executive director of Noble Infrastructure Capital Equity Fund.
He was previously Group Finance Director of BAA plc Grossart Ltd and Lloyds TSB Group plc where he chairs the Audit Committee.
He is also and Wellcome PLC.
For many years he worked abroad with Coats Viyella plc where he Chairman of Lloyds TSB Scotland plc and was a non-executive director of John Wood was Group Finance Director from January 1990.
He is a fellow of the Association of Group plc until May 2006.
Russell Walls retires by rotation at the 2006 AGM and has indicated that he does not intend to seek re-election.
6 Iain Duffin, Non-Executive Director Iain Duffin became a non-executive director of the Group in September 2001.
He was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 May 2003 and is also a member of the Audit Committee and Health, Safety and Environmental Committee.
He is a non-executive Chairman of Origo Services and Beattie Media Group.
He has previously held executive positions in the UK and the US with a number of organisations including Macfarlane Group plc, Lucas Varity plc, ITT Corporation and Hughes Aircraft.
Aged 59. page 10 | Stagecoach Group plc Summary Remuneration Committee report The Board supports the principles of good corporate governance relating to Remuneration report, the Remuneration Committee has followed the Directors remuneration and has applied them as described below.
provisions of the Combined Code.
In accordance with Schedule 7A Directors Remuneration Report of the The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Companies Act 1985, those paragraphs that have been audited have been Groups website at http: www.
com scg csr corpgov highlighted as such.
pdf This is the Summary Remuneration Committee report.
The full version of the Performance graph Remuneration Committee report is contained in the 2006 Annual Report.
The graph below charts the performance of the Stagecoach Group Total The full 2006 Annual Report may be obtained from the Companys registrar Shareholder Return TSR share value movement plus reinvested dividends at the address and telephone number shown on page 20. over the 5 years to 30 April 2006 compared with that of the FTSE Transport and Leisure All-Share Index, the FTSE Mid 250 Index and the FTSE All-Share Composition of the Remuneration Committee Index.
We have included a further graph to highlight the Companys more During the year ended 30 April 2006, Iain Duffin chaired the Remuneration recent performance, charting TSR for the 12 months up to 30 April 2006.
Committee and the other members were Russell Walls and Janet Morgan, all three of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee, In assessing the performance of the Companys TSR the Board believes the which was established in December 1992, has delegated responsibility for comparator groups it has chosen represent a fair benchmark both in terms of approving the remuneration and terms of employment for the Executive the nature of the business activity and size of company.
Directors and the Chairman, including pensions rights and any compensation payments.
The Remuneration Committee also monitors and makes Remuneration Policy appropriate recommendations with respect to the remuneration of other The Remuneration Policy was approved by our shareholders at the 2005 senior management.
The Remuneration Committee follows the Combined Code in designing performance-related remuneration schemes.
The Board of Directors as a whole, having given due regard to the required time commitment and responsibilities, sets the fees and expenses payable to the In determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors do not hold any share the Remuneration Committee aims to provide overall packages of terms and options, nor do they participate in any incentive plans or pension schemes with conditions that are competitive in the UK and will attract, retain and motivate the exception of Ann Gloag who receives a pension accrued when she was an high quality executives capable of achieving Stagecoach Groups objectives and executive director.
The members of the Remuneration Committee have no to ensure that they are fairly rewarded for their individual responsibilities and personal interest in the matters to be decided other than as shareholders, no contributions to the Groups overall performance.
The Remuneration potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no day-toCommittee believes that such packages should contain significant day involvement in running the businesses of the Stagecoach Group.
performance-related elements and that these performance-related elements Both the constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee comply should be designed to align the interests of the Executive Directors and other with the principles incorporated in the Combined Code.
In preparing this senior managers with the interests of shareholders.
Performance targets are Stagecoach TSR Comparative Performance since 30 April 2001 275 Stagecoach TSR FTSE Transport & Leisure TSR FTSE A S TSR FTSE 250 TSR 250 225 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 Stagecoach 1 Year TSR Comparative Performance to 30 April 2006 160 Stagecoach TSR FTSE Transport & Leisure TSR FTSE A S TSR FTSE 250 TSR 150 140 130 120 110 100 90 Apr-05 May-05 Jun-05 Jul-05 Aug-05 Sept-05 Oct-05 Nov-05 Dec-05 Jan-06 Feb-06 Mar-06 Apr-06 Stagecoach Group plc | page 11 Apr-01 Jun-01 Aug-01 Oct-01 Dec-01 Feb-02 Apr-02 Jun-02 Aug-02 Oct-02 Dec-02 Feb-03 Apr-03 Jun-03 Aug-03 Oct-03 Dec-03 Feb-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Oct-05 Dec-05 Feb-06 Apr-06 Summary Remuneration Committee report established to achieve consistency with the interests of shareholders, with an performance-related bonus schemes within Group companies, in addition to appropriate balance between shortand long-term targets.
Performance the UK-only SAYE scheme.
targets include traditional financial indicators and personal targets, successful Directors remuneration for the year ended 30 April 2006 is shown in Table 1 investment, innovation, staff development, customer satisfaction and and Directors pension benefits are shown in Table 2. achievement of regulatory requirements, including health and safety and environmental targets.
Two directors exercised Executive share options in the year.
Details are shown in Table 3 below.
To this end, the Remuneration Committee reviews the existing remuneration of the Executive Directors, in consultation with the Chief Executive, making Graham Eccles and Martin Griffiths were not members of the Group pension comparisons with peer companies of similar size and complexity and with other schemes before the introduction of the pensionable salary cap in June 1989. companies in the public transport industry in the UK and overseas.
Proposals They are each paid a non-pensionable allowance, which is equivalent to the for the forthcoming year are then discussed in the light of the prospects for the cost of a money purchase contribution of 20% of their salary in excess of the Group.
The Remuneration Committee is also kept informed of the salary levels pensionable salary cap.
of other senior executives employed by the Stagecoach Group and of average earnings for all employees.
With regard to pensions, the Remuneration During the year ended 30 April 2002, the remaining proceeds of a small self Committee has access to reports from the trustees and scheme actuaries administered money purchase scheme SSAS established for Brian Souter regarding the cost of pension obligations.
and Ann Gloag in 1992 were transferred into the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme to secure additional final salary type benefits equivalent in actuarial Shareholders are invited to specifically approve all new long-term remuneration value to the proceeds transferred.
The additional benefits are reflected in the plans whether share-settled or cash-settled plans and any significant changes disclosure of Brian Souters accrued benefits above.
In Ann Gloags case, her to existing plans, except where otherwise permitted by the Listing Rules.
New share of the SSAS assets along with the cash equivalent of her benefits in the arrangements were approved by shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme were transferred into a personal pension Meeting and the Committee considers that the arrangements that were arrangement that provides her with an annual pension of 81,000.
Employer approved by shareholders remain appropriate.
contributions to the SSAS ceased in 2000 for Ann Gloag and in 2001 for The Remuneration Committee believes that remuneration packages should Brian Souter.
reward the efforts of all staff since a motivated workforce is a key element of Directors who are members of the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme Group performance.
The Committee recognises that Executive Directors bear have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions AVCs.
Neither the greatest responsibility for delivering corporate strategy that underpins longterm sustainable performance.
While the Remuneration Committees report the contributions nor the resulting benefits of any AVCs are included in focuses on incentive schemes for senior executives, there are also a number of Table 2 below.
TABLE 1 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AUDITED Performance Performance related Benefits in Non-pensionable amounts in 000 Salary fees related bonus cash bonus EPP kind allowances Total 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 Executive directors Brian Souter 499 484 204 339 204 Nil 17 17 n a n a 924 840 Graham Eccles 269 261 161 183 Nil Nil 25 24 44 46 499 514 Martin Griffiths 242 220 103 154 103 Nil 20 20 36 33 504 427 Non-executive directors Ewan Brown 38 32 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a 38 32 Ann Gloag 38 32 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a 38 32 Robert Speirs 110 90 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a 110 90 Russell Walls 38 32 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a 38 32 Janet Morgan 38 32 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a 38 32 Iain Duffin 38 32 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a 38 32 Total 1,310 1,215 468 676 307 Nil 62 61 80 79 2,227 2,031 Non-pensionable allowances represent additional taxable remuneration paid to provide pension benefits The Executive Participation Plan EPP was approved by shareholders at the 2005 AGM.
Under the EPP, 50% of participants annual bonus is in the form of a notional interest in ordinary shares of the Company deferred shares.
TABLE 2 DIRECTORS PENSION BENEFITS AUDITED Additional Transfer value Increase in amounts in 000 accrued benefits Accrued Accrued lump of increase transfer value less in the year pension sum excluding inflation Directors contributions Excluding Including inflation inflation 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 Executive directors Brian Souter 51 70 264 244 489 439 167 146 135 Graham Eccles 11 14 25 21 74 64 35 33 35 Martin Griffiths 12 15 30 26 89 78 13 12 13 TABLE 3 OPTIONS EXERCISED IN YEAR 2006 amounts in 000 Graham Eccles 1,005 Martin Griffiths 961 Total gains on share options before transaction costs and taxes 1,966 page 12 | Stagecoach Group plc Independent auditors statement to the members of Stagecoach Group plc We have examined the summary financial statements of Stagecoach Basis of opinion Group plc.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Summary Annual Report in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our Opinion opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statements within the In our opinion the summary financial statements are consistent with the full Summary Annual Report with the full financial statements, the Directors financial statements, the Directors report and the Remuneration Committee report and the Remuneration Committee report, and its compliance with the report of Stagecoach Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2006 and comply relevant requirements of Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other and the regulations made thereunder.
information contained in the Summary Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statements.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act  LLP 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom Glasgow this report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
28 June 2006 Registered office and advisers Company Secretary Merchant Bankers Principal Bankers Ross Paterson Noble Grossart Limited Bank of Scotland 48 Queen Street New Uberior House Registered Office Edinburgh EH2 3NH 11 Earl Grey Street 10 Dunkeld Road Edinburgh EH3 9BN Perth PH1 5TW Independent Auditors Telephone 44 0 1738 442 111  LLP Solicitors Facsimile 44 0 1738 643 648 Kintyre House Shepherd & Wedderburn Email info@stagecoachgroup.
com 209 West George Street Saltire Court Glasgow G2 2LW 20 Castle Terrace Company Number Edinburgh EH1 2ET SC 100764 Stockbrokers Credit Suisse Herbert Smith Registrars 1 Cabot Square Exchange House Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland London E14 4QJ Primrose Street PO Box 28506 London EC2A 2HS Finance House Orchard Brae Edinburgh EH4 1WQ Telephone 44 0 870 601 5366 Stagecoach Group plc | page 13 Summary consolidated income statement For the year ended 30 April 2006 2006 2005 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and exceptional Results for and and Results for exceptional items items the year exceptional items exceptional items the year Notes m m m m m m Revenue 1,568.5 Nil 1,568.5 1,420.5 Nil 1,420.5 Operating costs 1,627.2 7.4 1,634.6 1,453.8 5.5 1,459.3 Other operating income 209.7 Nil 209.7 176.1 Nil 176.1 Operating profit of Group companies 151.0 7.4 143.6 142.8 5.5 137.3 Share of profit loss of joint ventures after finance income and taxation 5.6 13.1 7.5 10.7 14.7 4.0 Share of profit loss of joint ventures: Operating profit loss 5.4 13.1 7.7 14.2 14.7 0.5 Finance income net 1.7 Nil 1.7 1.7 Nil 1.7 Taxation 1.5 Nil 1.5 5.2 Nil 5.2 5.6 13.1 7.5 10.7 14.7 4.0 Share of loss from interest in associate after finance charges and taxation Nil Nil Nil 0.4 Nil 0.4 Total operating profit: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 156.6 20.5 136.1 153.1 20.2 132.9 Gain on sale of properties Nil 0.8 0.8 Nil 1.3 1.3 Loss on disposed operations and sale of investments Nil 5.9 5.9 Nil 7.4 7.4 Profit before interest and taxation 156.6 25.6 131.0 153.1 26.3 126.8 Finance costs 24.6 Nil 24.6 35.2 Nil 35.2 Finance income 8.6 Nil 8.6 13.3 Nil 13.3 Profit before taxation 140.6 25.6 115.0 131.2 26.3 104.9 Taxation 31.4 5.0 26.4 28.0 2.7 25.3 Profit for the year from continuing operations 109.2 20.6 88.6 103.2 23.6 79.6 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 4.3 22.5 26.8 7.3 Nil 7.3 Profit for the year 113.5 1.9 115.4 110.5 23.6 86.9 Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 113.5 1.9 115.4 110.1 23.6 86.5 Earnings per share Adjusted Basic 10.6p 10.7p 9.5p 7.5p Diluted 10.4p 10.6p 9.3p 7.3p Earnings per share from continuing operations Adjusted Basic 10.2p 8.2p 8.9p 6.9p Diluted 10.0p 8.1p 8.7p 6.7p Dividends per ordinary share 1 Interim paid 1.1p 1.0p Final proposed 2.6p 2.3p page 14 | Stagecoach Group plc Summary consolidated balance sheet As at 30 April 2006 2006 2005 m m Non-current assets 893.4 866.7 Current assets 395.3 321.7 Total assets 1,288.7 1,188.4 Current liabilities 502.6 573.0 Non-current liabilities 574.5 500.0 Total liabilities 1,077.1 1,073.0 Net assets 211.6 115.4 EQUITY Ordinary share capital 6.9 6.8 Redeemable B preference shares n a 13.9 Share premium account 174.8 163.4 Retained earnings 212.1 294.4 Capital redemption reserve 243.0 229.1 Own shares 6.1 6.8 Translation reserve 4.0 3.4 Available for sale reserve 1.9 Nil Cash flow hedging reserve 0.8 Nil Total equity 211.6 115.4 These financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 28 June 2006.
Brian Souter Martin A Griffiths Chief Executive Finance Director Summary consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 30 April 2006 2006 2005 m m Net cash from operating activities free cash flow 175.5 173.6 Net cash used in investing activities 9.9 50.8 Net cash used in financing activities 106.3 458.4 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 59.3 335.6 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 138.5 476.5 Exchange rate effects 0.5 2.4 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 198.3 138.5 Stagecoach Group plc | page 15 Note 1 Dividends 2006 2005 m m Amounts recognised as distributions in the year Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend paid of 2.0p per share for the year ended 30 April 2004 26.5 Interim dividend paid of 1.0p per share for the year ended 30 April 2005 10.7 Final dividend paid of 2.3p per share for the year ended 30 April 2005 24.6 Interim dividend paid of 1.1p per share for the year ended 30 April 2006 12.0 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year 36.6 37.2 Dividends on redeemable B preference shares Accrued for the period n a 0.4 36.6 37.6 Dividends proposed but neither paid nor included as liabilities in the financial statements Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend paid of 2.3p per share for the year ended 30 April 2005 24.4 Final dividend proposed of 2.6p per share for the year ended 30 April 2006 28.4 28.4 24.4 The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended 30 April 2006 is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
If approved, the final dividend will be payable on 4 October 2006 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 1 September 2006.
The dividends proposed and the actual dividends recognised as distributions differ slightly due to the number of shares at the balance sheet date being different to that at the record date.
The redeemable B preference shares attracted a non-cumulative preferential dividend set at 70% of 6 months LIBOR.
The dividend was payable on the nominal amount of 18 pence per B share and was paid twice yearly in arrears on 31 March and 30 September.
On adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 May 2005, the preference shares are reclassified as debt rather than equity and subsequently any dividends accrued since that date are classified as finance costs.
Note 2 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS Stagecoach Group plc the Group previously prepared its consolidated financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP for periods up to and including 30 April 2005.
From 1 May 2005 onwards, the Group is required to prepare its consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee interpretations as endorsed by the European Union EU.
The results for the year ended 30 April 2006 represent the Groups first financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting policies based on IFRS and accordingly the comparative figures for the year ended 30 April 2005 have been restated in accordance with IFRS.
Detailed transitional UK GAAP to IFRS reconciliations for the comparatives were issued on 29 September 2005 and can be found on the Groups website at: http: www.
com scg ir finanalysis reports.
In the announcement of 29 September 2005, we noted that the financial information presented may subsequently be impacted by changes in the business or to IFRS or the interpretation thereof.
The comparative information reported in these results differs from that previously reported as a result of such changes.
The following changes have been made to the comparatives since Year ended 30 April 2005 the reconciliations published on 29 September 2005: m Income statement Increase in Group operating costs 3.0 Increase in Group other operating income 3.0 Increase in operating profit from joint ventures 1.0 1.0 As at 30 April 2005 m Balance sheet Increase in provisions within current liabilities 55.6 Decrease in provisions within non-current liabilities 55.6 Decrease in interests in joint ventures 6.0 Decrease in net assets and equity 6.0 A loss on sale of plant and equipment of 3.0m has been reclassified from Group other operating income to Group operating costs.
Provisions totalling 55.6m previously classified as non-current liabilities have been reclassified to current liabilities.
An intangible asset had been previously recognised in relation to VRG in our prior IFRS restatement which represented the right to operate both the West Coast and CrossCountry franchises.
This has been removed which results in an increase in profit for the year ended 30 April 2005 of 1.0m and a decrease in net assets of 6.0m at that date.
This change results from further analysis undertaken by VRG and its auditors with respect to the application of IFRS to the contractual arrangements in respect of VRGs franchises.
The transitional balance sheet shown at 1 May 2005 to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39 in the restatement has changed with net assets at 1 May 2005 decreasing by a further 0.5m.
This reflects the discounting of our North American receivables in respect of disposals in prior years.
The year ended 30 April 2005 comparatives have also been updated to reflect the disposal of our New Zealand operations, with all income and expenses relating to the New Zealand division being reclassified to profit for the year from discontinued operations.
page 16 | Stagecoach Group plc Reconciliation of Profit For the year ended 30 April 2005 Previously Joint reported Goodwill Share ventures & Total effect Impact of As reported under UK Employee and Based associates Assets held First time Joint of transition Restated discontinued under GAAP Benefits intangibles Payments net liabilities for sale adoption ventures Other to IFRS under IFRS operations IFRS m m m m m m m m m m m m m Revenue 1,479.5 1,479.5 59.0 1,420.5 Operating costs 1,517.1 2.8 6.8 1.4 0.1 0.3 3.0 5.6 1,511.5 52.2 1,459.3 Other operating income net 173.3 1.7 3.0 4.7 178.0 1.9 176.1 Operating profit of Group companies 135.7 4.5 6.8 1.4 0.1 0.3 10.3 146.0 8.7 137.3 Share of operating loss of joint ventures IFRS after finance income and taxation 2.2 1.6 0.1 3.5 1.8 4.0 4.0 Share of operating loss from interest in associates IFRS after finance charges and taxation 0.7 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 Total operating profit: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 132.8 6.1 7.2 1.4 0.1 0.3 3.5 8.8 141.6 8.7 132.9 Gain on sale of properties 1.3 1.3 1.3 Loss on disposed operations 5.9 0.4 1.0 0.1 1.5 7.4 7.4 Profit before interest and taxation 128.2 6.1 6.8 1.4 1.0 0.3 3.5 7.3 135.5 8.7 126.8 Finance costs net 19.9 1.7 1.7 21.6 0.3 21.9 Profit before taxation 108.3 6.1 6.8 1.4 1.0 0.3 5.2 5.6 113.9 9.0 104.9 Taxation 29.5 1.8 0.9 5.2 2.5 27.0 1.7 25.3 Profit for the year from continuing operations 78.8 4.3 5.9 1.4 1.0 0.3 8.1 86.9 7.3 79.6 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 7.3 7.3 Profit for the year 78.8 4.3 5.9 1.4 1.0 0.3 8.1 86.9 86.9 Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 78.8 4.3 5.9 1.4 1.0 0.3 8.1 86.9 86.9 Earnings per share Basic 6.8p 0.4p 0.5p 0.1 p 0.1 p 0.7p 7.5p 7.5p Adjusted 9.0p 0.6p 0.1 p 0.5p 9.5p 9.5p Stagecoach Group plc | page 17 page 18 | Stagecoach Group plc Reconciliation of Equity Previously Joint As at 30 April 2005 reported Opening ventures and Total effect of under UK balance sheet Employee Goodwill and Proposed associates Assets held First time transition to Restated GAAP adjustment Benefits intangibles dividends net liabilities for sale adoption Other IFRS under IFRS m m m m m m m m m m m ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill 89.5 4.1 4.6 3.6 4.1 93.6 Other intangible assets 10.1 2.9 2.0 9.2 9.2 Property, plant and equipment 640.2 53.1 0.2 0.8 0.3 54.0 694.2 Interests in joint ventures 71.2 9.9 5.1 0.1 15.1 56.1 Interests in associates 0.7 0.3 0.3 1.0 Financial assets: Available for sale and other investments 1.7 0.1 0.1 1.8 Deferred tax asset 4.1 4.1 Other receivables 44.6 40.8 2.9 37.9 6.7 852.0 8.4 5.1 6.7 4.4 0.3 14.7 866.7 Current assets Inventories 12.5 1.6 1.6 12.5 Trade and other receivables 174.1 11.2 0.6 0.1 2.1 17.7 4.9 169.2 Cash and cash equivalents 140.0 140.0 326.6 9.6 0.6 0.1 3.7 17.7 4.9 321.7 Assets held for sale 8.1 8.1 Total assets 1,178.6 26.1 5.7 6.8 0.3 17.7 9.8 1,188.4 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade and other payables 357.6 0.7 0.7 357.6 Current tax liabilities 33.3 33.3 Financial liabilities: Borrowings 126.5 17.7 17.7 126.5 Dividends payable 24.4 26.5 2.1 24.4 Provisions 69.9 14.3 55.6 55.6 541.8 60.4 2.1 0.7 32.0 31.2 573.0 Noncurrent liabilities Other payables 8.1 8.1 Financial liabilities: Borrowings 228.1 228.1 Deferred tax liabilities 78.7 60.3 14.0 1.1 73.2 5.5 Provisions joint ventures 1.0 1.0 others 102.9 80.0 0.1 0.1 14.3 65.5 37.4 Retirement benefit obligations IAS 19 deficit 175.0 45.9 220.9 220.9 417.8 33.7 32.0 1.1 1.0 0.1 14.3 82.2 500.0 Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 0.8 0.8 Total liabilities 959.6 94.9 32.0 1.1 2.1 1.0 17.7 113.4 1,073.0 Net assets 219.0 68.8 37.7 5.7 2.1 1.0 0.3 103.6 115.4 EQUITY Ordinary share capital 6.8 6.8 Redeemable B preference shares 13.9 13.9 Share premium account 163.4 163.4 Retained earnings 187.4 68.8 37.7 5.7 2.1 1.0 0.3 3.4 107.0 294.4 Capital redemption reserve 229.1 229.1 Own shares 6.8 6.8 Translation reserve 3.4 3.4 3.4 Total equity 219.0 68.8 37.7 5.7 2.1 1.0 0.3 103.6 115.4 See reconciliation of equity as at 1 May 2004 on page 19.
Please write to: Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland, PO Box 28506, Finance House, Orchard Brae, Edinburgh EH4 1WQ.
Registrar forms can be obtained on-line at http: www.
com scg ir shareholder registrar Stagecoach individual savings accounts The Company has appointed Halifax Share Dealing Limited as an ISA provider and shareholders who would like further information should contact their help desk on 08457 22 55 25.
The Company has also made arrangements with Stocktrade for Maxi and Mini ISAs.
Full details and an application form are available from Stocktrade a division of Brewin Dolphin, 81 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3ES.
Low cost share dealing facility The Company has set up a low cost execution only share dealing facility with a division of Brewin Dolphin, Stocktrade, exclusive to Stagecoach shareholders.
The commission is 0.5% up to 10,000 with 0.2% being charged on the excess thereafter, subject to a 15 minimum.
Shareholders who would like further information should write to Stocktrade, 81 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3ES.
Telephone 0845 601 0995, quoting dealing reference Low Co020.
Postal dealing packs are available on request.
Payment of dividends by BACS Many shareholders have already arranged for dividends to be paid by mandate directly to their bank or building society account.
The mandates enable the Company to pay dividends through the BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services system.
The benefit to shareholders of the BACS system is that the registrar posts the tax vouchers directly to them, whilst the dividend is credited on the payment date to the shareholder bank or building society account.
Shareholders who wish to benefit from this service should request the Companys registrar address above to send them a dividend interest mandate form or alternatively complete the mandate form attached to the next dividend tax voucher they receive.
Dividend Re-Investment Plan The Company operates a Dividend Re-Investment Plan which allows a shareholders cash dividend to be used to buy Stagecoach shares at favourable commission rates.
Shareholders who would like further information should telephone Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland on 0870 241 3018.
Financial Calendar Annual General Meeting Interim Report 25 August 2006 December 2006 Payment Date Ordinary shares Interim Dividend Final Dividend March 2007 4 October 2006 page 20 | Stagecoach Group plc Group Headquarters 10 Dunkeld Road Perth PH1 5TW Scotland T 44 0 1738 442 111 F 44 0 1738 643 648 www.
