INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF STAGECOACH GROUP PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Stagecoach statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2006 which comprise the Balance of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Sheet and the related notes.
These parent company financial statements company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on page 35 on the Group financial statements of Stagecoach Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2006.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Respective responsibilities of directors and includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts auditors and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, Remuneration the Remuneration Committee report to be audited.
It also includes an Committee report and the parent company financial statements in assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 20. circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and the part of the Remuneration Committee report to be audited in accordance explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in Opinion writing.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2006: and be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985. statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law  LLP regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Glasgow We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial 28 June 2006 Stagecoach Group plc | page 95
