Shareholder Information Advisers Investor Relations Website REGISTRARS The Companys investor relations website can be found at Capita Registrars www.
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Share Price Information Kent BR3 4TU The latest information on the Companys share price can be found at www.
Share price information is also available on Ceefax PRINCIPAL BANKERS and Teletext and is published in the financial pages of the national press.
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1 Exchange Flags Registrar Liverpool L2 3XN All enquiries relating to shareholdings in the Company should be made to the Companys registrar, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Barclays Bank PLC Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Birmingham Corporate Banking Centre 15 Colmore Row Shareholders can access the details of their shareholdings in the Company Birmingham B3 2EP and update address details and mandate information online at www.
AUDITORS  LLP Share Dealing Service 101 Barbirolli Square A share dealing service is available to existing shareholders to buy or sell the Lower Mosley Street Companys shares via Capita Share Dealing Services.
Online and telephone Manchester M2 3PW dealing facilities provide an easy to access and simple to use service.
FINANCIAL ADVISERS & STOCKBROKERS For further information on this service, or to buy or sell shares, please contact: JPMorgan Cazenove Limited 20 Moorgate www.
com online dealing London EC2R 6DA 0870 458 4577 telephone dealing SOLICITORS Ashurst Please note that the Directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage Broadwalk House shareholders to either buy or sell their shares.
Shareholders in any doubt 5 Appold Street about what action to take are recommended to seek financial advice from London EC2A 2HA an independent financial adviser authorised by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Eversheds LLP Eversheds House Dividend Reinvestment Plan 70 Great Bridgewater Street The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which enables Manchester M1 5ES shareholders to use their future cash dividends to buy additional shares in the Company.
Further details of the Dividend Reinvestment Plan can be obtained from www.
com or by contacting Capita Registrars.
Financial Calendar Company Secretary and Registered Of ce 2006 Colin Child Stanley House, 151 Dale Street Ex-dividend date 16 August Liverpool L2 2JW Record date i. e. qualifying date for final dividend 18 August Annual General Meeting 14 September Registered in England, number 1519749 Final dividend payment 20 September 2007 Announcement of interim results January Interim dividend payment February Preliminary announcement of final results July Stanley Leisure plc 2006 Designed & produced by www.
co. uk Annual Report and Accounts 77 Stanley Leisure plc Stanley House 151 Dale Street Liverpool L2 2JW www.
