To develop our customer relationships Animal nutrition ingredients from feed Tate & Lyle ENRICH enhancing the further throughout our business, we have molasses to Aquasta astaxanthin, nutritional benefits of foods and beverages set up cross-functional teams consisting an essential nutrient for farm-raised fish without compromising on taste.
of people drawn from research and produced through a unique fermentation During the year, we commercialised development, marketing, sales, finance process from renewable resources.
solutions for a wide range of products and customer service.
These teams work Currently, the most important driver of including flavoured waters, yoghurts, with our customers to provide both growth for our business is value added food ice creams, breakfast cereals and dressings.
consumer and customer insights and ingredients.
In this market, Tate & Lyle to look at support and product Our solutions-based approach has also operates primarily within the categories of innovation opportunities.
changed the way we take our products to sweeteners, functional foods, fat replacers, market and the way we work with and are hydrocolloids, emulsifers and acidulants.
perceived by our customers, providing us Operating environment with new opportunities to sell our products Solutions and grow our business.
Alongside our broad range of distinctive highMarkets quality sweeteners and food ingredients, we Tate & Lyle participates in diverse markets: Customers also offer tailored solutions for our customers.
We principally sell our ingredients, solutions Food and food ingredients from refined These are unique combinations of ingredients and services to food, beverage and industrial sugar and simple starches to higher value or services that allow food manufacturers to manufacturers.
We also sell end-products products such as complex starches and achieve certain goals, such as nutritional directly through retail distribution channels functional sweeteners, including the no reformulation, cost reduction or enrichment to retail customers.
We serve about 6,000 calorie sweetener SPLENDA Sucralose.
without compromising on taste and texture.
customers at 13,000 locations around the Industrial bio-materials from basic Tate & Lyles solutions are marketed under world and our customer base includes many bio-materials such as paper starches four services, namely: of the major global food, beverage and and fuel ethanol to more advanced TM Tate & Lyle CREATE innovations industrial companies.
They purchase our bio-materials such as Bio-PDO, in shape, structure, taste and texture.
ingredients to manufacture their consumer a monomer made from corn which can Tate & Lyle OPTIMIZE maximising and industrial products.
be polymerised by DuPont into a textile efficiency and added value services called Sorona.
As shown in the table below, our renewable to help our customers meet their cost Other non-food markets such as ingredients portfolio can be broadly split into and margin targets.
pharmaceuticals and personal care ten segments serving a customer base that Tate & Lyle REBALANCE reformulating where, for example, we produce high extends from branded and own-label foods to lower fat, lower sugar and lower calorie value modified starches which can be and beverages to household and industrial positions without compromising on taste used to provide texture and stability in products, paper and animal feeds.
Our renewable ingredients portfolio can be split into ten segments.
Our ingredients can be found in: Foods Beverages Dairy Confectionery and desserts Snacks and bars Alcoholic beverages Household products such as detergents, washing liquids, cosmetics and toothpaste Tate & Lyle consumer-branded products Pharmaceuticals tablets, syrup-based medications, effervescent and fortified products Industrial products building, engineering, energy etc.
Paper and board products Textiles Animal feeds Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 21 Cereal Starches Cereal Sweeteners Sugars, Syrups and Molasses SPLENDA Sucralose Proteins Acidulants Biogums Alcohols and Polyols Other fermented products TM Allegra
