Business review: TNS operations TNS organisational structure Chief Executive David Lowden Custom business Syndicated services Europe Worldpanel Strategic Global Global clients Finance Judith Josep development operations and sectors Andy Boland Passingham Montserrat and marketing Pedro Ros John Abraham Human resources and internal North America Media communications Kimberly Till Intelligence Mike Petch JeanMichel Portier Legal Paul Wright ALM iTRAM Jamie Hall Andrea IT Mezzasalma Tony Barbosa Access panels are pre-recruited samples of respondents who TNS syndicated services have agreed to participate in market research surveys.
TNS operates three major syndicated services: 6thdimension is TNS carefully managed, double opt-in, high TNS Worldpanel quality panel, which operates across Europe, North America TNS Media Intelligence and Asia.
Use of managed access panels is a crucial part of TNS internet, TV and Radio Audience Measurement iTRAM.
efficient and high-quality data collection, due to: controls that protect respondent usage rates and Each has a market leading position.
They frequently provide reduce churn the benchmark measurement and industry standard in their higher co-operation rates and more representative samples markets.
TNS maintains its leading position through innovation more flexible and precise sample selection that allows for and by continuing to invest in all three areas.
more complex and precise surveys.
Growth in the size of TNS access panels is being carefully TNS custom business managed to maintain quality standards and meet client TNS is the worlds largest provider of custom research and demand.
Our custom business is organised around three TNSInfo regions: TNS is also at the forefront in the use of technology to deliver Europe information to clients.
TNSInfo is the groups integrated North America information delivery system, based around an online client Asia Pacific, Latin America, Middle East & Africa ALM.
portal allowing clients access to all of their marketing Our newly-formed global clients and sectors function information instantly and from one single source.
It delivers operates across the custom business to meet the needs customised information to relevant people within the client of multi-national clients.
organisation and allows them to analyse data and make immediate business decisions.
Through the TNSInfo portfolio Data collection and delivery of delivery systems, clients can monitor their survey and tracking results in real-time, or explore their own data for new The group collects the information that forms the basis of its insights.
TNSInfo is a crucial part of the TNS response to custom research services using a number of different client demand for up-to-date insights and has been a key methodologies, including telephone, face-to-face and, driver in helping to win new business.
With the growing importance of the internet as a method of data collection, TNS has been investing in internet access panels, under the 6thdimension brand.
16 TNS annual report 2006 Business review The Conversion Model has been used to interview over 7 million Number of TNS Info users respondents across TNS 6thdimension access 000s 100 countries, for more panels execute surveys 50 than 117,000 brands in over 34 countries and 41.4 40 26 languages 29.9 with 30 20 12.9 800 10 4.7 live projects at any 1.3 one time 02 03 04 05 06 Areas of Expertise As clients look for more insight and analysis from market information, one of the ways in which TNS meets that demand is through our focus on four main Areas of Expertise in custom Brand and advertising research.
Each of the Areas of Expertise is embedded within research the service offering of the regions, supported by specialist Communication pre-testing Centres of Excellence.
In this way, we deliver to clients Media allocation optimisation consistently high quality recommendations across Marketing and communications return on TNS global network and in all industry sectors.
investment assessment and tracking Together, the four Areas of Brand equity assessment and tracking Expertise encompass Primary business solutions each stage of the New product AdEval, The Conversion Model, marketing cycle.
development AdEffect, Market Contact Audit, Idea screening Brand Performance Optimization, Concept testing MarketWhys Product optimisation Sales forecasting Primary business solutions Innosuite, VISIT Stakeholder management Segmentation and Customer satisfaction retention positioning Internal service quality Market structure usage & Employee commitment attitude studies Corporate reputation Needs segmentation Primary business solution Brand positioning TRI M Brand portfolio analysis Future-oriented market growth analysis Primary business solutions Needscope System, Optima, FutureView Business review TNS annual report 2006 17
