Accounting Policies Basis of accounting Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts accordance with applicable International Accounting Standards subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill IAS and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not adopted for use in the European Union and as issued by the been reinstated and is not included in determining any International Accounting Standards Board.
subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on Revenue the historical cost basis, except where stated below.
The Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
or receivable, net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Revenue and profit are recognised as follows: statements of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
a Private housing development properties and land sales.
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration so as to obtain benets from its activities.
The existence and received or receivable on legal completion.
effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group b Contracting work.
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by surveys of values of the identiable net assets acquired is recognised as work performed to date.
Variations in contract work, claims and goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair incentive payments are included to the extent that it is probable values of the identiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on that they will result in revenue and they are capable of being acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the period of reliably measured.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
against the interests of the parent.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is year are included in the consolidated income statement from recognised as an expense immediately.
the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are Tender costs for construction made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the significant tender costs are treated as recoverable once the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
directors consider that it is probable that the contract will be All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses won.
This is presumed to be when preferred bidder status is are eliminated on consolidation.
Joint ventures are consolidated under the equity accounting Foreign currencies method rather than the alternative treatment of proportionate The individual statements of each Group company are consolidation allowed under IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures.
presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
Goodwill Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and the identiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or jointly liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies other than controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
the functional currency are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period.
On disposal of a subsidiary or jointly-controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups of the profit or loss on disposal.
overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless 48 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006 Accounting Policies continued exchange rates uctuate signicantly when a monthly average straight-line method, on the following bases: exchange rate is used instead.
Exchange differences arising are classied as reserves and transferred to the Groups Plant, xtures and equipment 20 - 25 per cent translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation Computer equipment 33 per cent is disposed of.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group has elected or loss.
to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS as assets and Financial instruments liabilities denominated in the functional currency of the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the company in which they arise.
Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group enters into forward contracts and currency options in order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange Trade receivables and other receivables transaction risks relating to the functional currency in Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at accordance with Group policy.
It also uses foreign currency their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for borrowings and currency swaps to hedge its net investment estimated irrecoverable amounts.
exposure to certain overseas subsidiaries see below for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative Financial Liability and Equity financial instruments.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classied according to the substance of the contractual arrangements Operating leases entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
deducting all of its liabilities.
Benets received and receivable and costs paid and payable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread Borrowings on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, Property and plant including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the goods or services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in income statement using the effective interest method and are the balance sheet at their revalued amounts, being the fair value added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent at the date of revaluation, determined from market-based that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
evidence by appraisal undertaken by professional valuers, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent Trade payables accumulated impairment losses.
Revaluations are performed Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are with sufficient regularity such that the carrying amount does not stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on extended differ materially from that which would be determined using fair terms, particularly in respect of land, are recorded at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate.
The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period of Any revaluation increase arising on the revaluation of such land the credit term and charged to finance costs.
and buildings is credited to the properties revaluation reserve, except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease for Equity instruments the same asset previously recognised as an expense, in which Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded at the case the increase is credited to the income statement to the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
extent of the decrease previously charged.
A decrease in carrying amount arising on the revaluation of such land and Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting buildings is charged as an expense to the extent that it exceeds The Group uses forward exchange contracts and currency the balance, if any, held in the properties revaluation reserve options to hedge transactions denominated in foreign relating to a previous revaluation of that asset.
The Group also uses foreign currency borrowings and currency swaps to hedge its net investment exposure to On the subsequent sale or retirement of a revalued property, movements in exchange rates on translation of certain the attributable revaluation surplus remaining in the properties individual financial statements denominated in foreign revaluation reserve is transferred directly to accumulated currencies other than pounds sterling which is the functional profits.
Interest rate derivaties are used to manage interest rate risk in respect of specic borrowings.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for of assets over their estimated useful lives.
charged, where material, on buildings over the expected useful life of the asset.
Other assets are depreciated using the Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006 49 Accounting Policies continued The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such policies approved by the Board of directors, which provide assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that other than in a business combination of other assets and are designated and effective as hedges of net investments in liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor foreign operations are recognised directly in reserves and the the accounting profit.
ineffective portion, if any, is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the value, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Gains or losses from re-measuring the derivative, or for non-derivatives the foreign currency Deferred taxation is measured on a non-discounted basis using component of its carrying amount, are recognised in profit the tax rates and laws that have then been enacted or or loss.
substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax longer qualies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
reserves is retained in reserves until the forecasted transaction Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in reserves is to reserves, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with transferred to the income statement for the period.
Inventories Share-based payments Inventories, details of which are shown in Note 14, are stated The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005. inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are marketing, selling and distribution.
measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based Taxation on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Employee benets The Group accounts for pensions and similar benets under IAS Current tax 19 Employee Benets.
In respect of dened benefit plans, The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The operating and statement because it excludes items of income or expense that nancing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes income statement: service costs are spread systematically over items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability the lives of employees and nancing costs are recognised in the for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense, rather than the corridor method alternative Deferred tax available under IAS 19.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and Payments to dened contribution schemes are charged as an liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax expense as they fall due.
bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against 50 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006
