37 telent Annual Report 2006 Notes to the accounts 1.
General information telent plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 11.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Review of Financials on pages 18 to 23.
These financial statements are presented in sterling as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Accounting policies The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Where such judgements are made they are indicated within the accounting policies below.
These financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention except where the measurement of balances at fair value is required as set out below.
The following policies are those that the Group considers to be its principal accounting policies.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS for the first time.
They have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The adoption of IFRS by the Group on 1 April 2004 the IFRS transition date has resulted in a number of significant adjustments to the previously reported results and equity shareholders funds presented under UK generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP.
The main changes were in relation to share-based payments, pensions, goodwill, intangible assets and financial instruments.
Reconciliations of the amounts reported previously under UK GAAP and the amounts reported under IFRS for the balance sheets as at 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 and profit for the year ended 31 March 2005 are set out in note 41 to the accounts.
IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards sets out the procedures that the Group must follow when it adopts IFRS as the accounting basis for its consolidated financial statements for the first time.
The Group is required to establish IFRS accounting policies and, in general, should apply these retrospectively to determine the IFRS opening balance sheet at 1 April 2004.
IFRS 1 provides a number of optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS accounting policies.
The most significant of these are set out below: IFRS 3, Business combinations The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to business combinations that took place prior to 1 April 2004.
As a result, in the opening balance sheet, goodwill arising from past business combinations remains as stated under UK GAAP at 31 March 2004.
IAS 19, Employee benefits The Group has chosen early adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 issued by the IASB on 16 December 2004.
As a result, from 1 April 2004, the Group has credited or charged net actuarial gains and losses to reserves in the period in which they arise.
IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement The Group has chosen to apply IAS 39 for all periods presented and has therefore not taken advantage of the IFRS 1 exemption, which would enable the Group only to apply the standard from 1 April 2005.
IAS 21, The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates When a foreign operation is disposed of, IAS 21 requires a transfer of the cumulative translation differences related to that operation from reserves to the income statement.
This forms part of the gain or loss arising on the disposal of the operation.
The Group has chosen to take advantage of the IFRS 1 exemption from compliance with this requirement for cumulative translation differences as at the IFRS transition date.
As a result, the cumulative translation differences for all of the Groups foreign operations are deemed to be nil at 1 April 2004.
The profit from Discontinued Operations for the years ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 therefore includes only the translation differences that arose from 1 April 2004.
