37 telent Annual Report 2006 Notes to the accounts 1.
General information telent plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 11.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Review of Financials on pages 18 to 23.
These financial statements are presented in sterling as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Accounting policies The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Where such judgements are made they are indicated within the accounting policies below.
These financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention except where the measurement of balances at fair value is required as set out below.
The following policies are those that the Group considers to be its principal accounting policies.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS for the first time.
They have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The adoption of IFRS by the Group on 1 April 2004 the IFRS transition date has resulted in a number of significant adjustments to the previously reported results and equity shareholders funds presented under UK generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP.
The main changes were in relation to share-based payments, pensions, goodwill, intangible assets and financial instruments.
Reconciliations of the amounts reported previously under UK GAAP and the amounts reported under IFRS for the balance sheets as at 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 and profit for the year ended 31 March 2005 are set out in note 41 to the accounts.
IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards sets out the procedures that the Group must follow when it adopts IFRS as the accounting basis for its consolidated financial statements for the first time.
The Group is required to establish IFRS accounting policies and, in general, should apply these retrospectively to determine the IFRS opening balance sheet at 1 April 2004.
IFRS 1 provides a number of optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS accounting policies.
The most significant of these are set out below: IFRS 3, Business combinations The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to business combinations that took place prior to 1 April 2004.
As a result, in the opening balance sheet, goodwill arising from past business combinations remains as stated under UK GAAP at 31 March 2004.
IAS 19, Employee benefits The Group has chosen early adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 issued by the IASB on 16 December 2004.
As a result, from 1 April 2004, the Group has credited or charged net actuarial gains and losses to reserves in the period in which they arise.
IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement The Group has chosen to apply IAS 39 for all periods presented and has therefore not taken advantage of the IFRS 1 exemption, which would enable the Group only to apply the standard from 1 April 2005.
IAS 21, The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates When a foreign operation is disposed of, IAS 21 requires a transfer of the cumulative translation differences related to that operation from reserves to the income statement.
This forms part of the gain or loss arising on the disposal of the operation.
The Group has chosen to take advantage of the IFRS 1 exemption from compliance with this requirement for cumulative translation differences as at the IFRS transition date.
As a result, the cumulative translation differences for all of the Groups foreign operations are deemed to be nil at 1 April 2004.
The profit from Discontinued Operations for the years ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 therefore includes only the translation differences that arose from 1 April 2004.
38 telent Annual Report 2006 Notes to the accounts continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements include the results of the parent company and all of its subsidiary undertakings, together with the Groups share of the results of its associates and joint ventures under the equity accounting basis.
A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Group.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
A joint venture is an undertaking that is jointly controlled by the Group under a contractual arrangement.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are stated at the amount of the Groups share of net assets including goodwill derived from audited or management accounts made up to the balance sheet date.
Loss before taxation includes the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement up to the effective date of disposal.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
Available for sale investments are stated at their fair value.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Revenue from product sales of hardware and software is recognised when: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists: delivery has occurred or service has been rendered: customer acceptance has occurred: the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable: and collectability is reasonably assured.
Revenue from services is recognised at the time of performance and acceptance by the customer.
Revenue from multiple element contracts is allocated based on the relative fair value of each individual element.
Revenue on long-term contracts is recognised under the  method of accounting and is calculated based on the ratio of costs incurred to date compared with the total expected costs for that contract, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Long-term contracts Profit on long-term contracts in progress is taken when a sale is recorded on part-delivery of products or part-performance of services, provided that the outcome of the contract can be assessed with reasonable certainty.
Amounts recoverable on long-term contracts, which are included in Trade and other receivables, are stated at the net sales value of the work performed less amounts received as progress payments on account.
Excess progress payments are included in Trade and other payables.
Cumulative costs incurred, net of amounts transferred to cost of sales, less provisions for contingencies and anticipated future losses on contracts, are included in Inventories.
Where the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of costs incurred, if it is probable that they will be recovered.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately.
Any variations to contracts are accounted for on the same basis.
Research and development Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Internal development expenditure is charged to income in the year in which it is incurred unless it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38, Intangible Assets.
Only costs incurred following commencement of customer trials are considered for capitalisation, as field trials signal the point at which technical feasibility has been proven in a customer environment.
Costs are not capitalised unless a customer order has been received and the future margin exceeds the value of the eligible costs.
Where these criteria are met, development costs are capitalised within other intangible assets on the balance sheet and amortised over two years on a straight-line basis.
All intangible assets are assessed for impairment annually, or earlier upon indication of impairment.
Accounting policies continued Business combinations and goodwill On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair value of net assets acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and reviewed for impairment annually, or whenever there is an indication that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires a comparison of the carrying amount of goodwill with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell.
Where an estimation of value-in-use is required, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination.
The value-in-use calculation requires the entity to estimate future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
No impairment was deemed necessary for the year ended 31 March 2006.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 March 2006 was 42 million.
Prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful life.
Amortisation ceased on 31 March 2004 upon adoption of IFRS 11, Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Post-retirement benefits The Group accounts for pensions and other post-retirement benefits principally healthcare under IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method and actuarial valuations for accounting purposes are carried out at each half-year and year-end.
The operating and financing costs of these schemes are recognised separately in the income statement.
Current service cost is spread systematically over the lives of employees and financing costs are recognised in the period in which they arise.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and is otherwise amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
Interest on pension scheme liabilities is presented within Finance costs and the expected return on pension assets is presented within Investment income.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the value of unrecognised past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
An actuarial assessment of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme liabilities and valuation of pension assets was performed under IAS 19 at 31 March 2006.
The following assumptions were adopted for the UK Pension Plan, the Groups largest pension plan: 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 % % UK Pension Plan Inflation assumption 2.75 2.75 Discount rate 5.00 5.50 Rate of general increase in salaries 4.25 4.25 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.75 2.75 Rate of increase for deferred pensioners 2.75 2.75 Rate of credited interest 2.50 2.50 The assumption adopted in respect of the expected mortality of the UK Pension Plan members is based on the experience analysis carried out for the most recent formal valuation.
In addition, the Group also recognises that improvements in longevity are likely to continue and made a further allowance for this within the IAS 19 liabilities at 31 March 2006.
The UK Pension Plan experience will continue to be monitored at successive plan valuations.
The impact of assumption changes on the UK and other Group plans and the results of the latest actuarial valuations are discussed on pages 22 to 23 of the Review of Financials.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
In accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based Payments, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is calculated using a binomial lattice model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted for the effects of exercise restrictions and expected exercise behaviour, based on managements best estimates.
The Group also provides employees with the ability to purchase the Groups ordinary shares at 90% of the current market value.
The Group records an expense, based on its estimate of the 10% discount related to shares expected to vest on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
40 telent Annual Report 2006 Notes to the accounts continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis to the income statement using the Effective Interest Method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies, as approved by the Board of directors, which set out written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
Between February 2005 and December 2005, the Group hedged certain foreign currency cash flows with forward foreign exchange contracts.
In December 2005, the Group discontinued this activity and since then there has been no activity in financial instruments.
Where a forward foreign exchange contract hedges a foreign currency asset or liability, movements on the derivative and the hedged item are taken to the income statement.
Where a forward foreign exchange contract hedges a probable commitment, it must involve the same currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and must also reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Groups operations.
Gains and losses arising on these contracts are deferred and recognised in the income statement only when the hedged transaction has itself been reflected in the Groups financial statements.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Derivatives embedded in financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value, with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Foreign currencies The functional currency of each of the Groups subsidiaries is the local currency of the country in which each subsidiary is located.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at the prevailing rate of exchange on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the period-end rate.
The resulting exchange differences are taken into account in determining the profit or loss on ordinary activities before taxation, with the exception of certain gains and losses arising under hedging transactions in prior periods.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at period-end exchange rates.
Income and expense items are translated at the average rate for the period.
Exchange differences arising are taken to reserves via the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
On disposal of an operation, these translation differences are recognised as income or expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Accounting policies continued Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the taxable profits for the financial year and includes the effect of temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and for accounting purposes, where the effect is to be recognised in the balance sheet.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that future taxable profit will be available against which to utilise tax losses and attributes.
The Group has not provided for unremitted foreign earnings as the timing of any such remittances is controlled by the Group and no such distributions are expected in the foreseeable future.
Furthermore, any such remittances should be covered by UK tax attributes in respect of which no deferred tax asset is currently recognised.
The Group makes no provision for temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries given that the realisation of such differences is controlled and is not probable in the foreseeable future.
No deferred tax liabilities are separately disclosed on the basis that the balances are in jurisdictions where the Group has the legally enforceable right to offset deferred tax assets and liabilities and the amounts relate to taxes that are levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable enterprise or group of enterprises.
Deferred tax on items charged or credited directly to equity is dealt with in equity.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant, machinery, fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged in order to expense the cost of assets, other than land and assets under construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Freehold buildings 2% to 4% per annum Leasehold property Over the shorter of the lease term or 50 years Plant and machinery 10% per annum on average Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 10% per annum on average Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the lease.
Annual reviews are conducted of the estimated remaining useful lives of assets and their residual values.
All such assets are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of assets are not capitalised but are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Investment property Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals and for capital appreciation, is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged in order to expense the cost of assets, other than land and assets under construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the straightline method, at a rate of between 2% to 4% per annum.
Leases In accordance with IAS 17, Leases, leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease agreement transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the related assets to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The Group as lessor Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
The Group as lessee Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included within Property, plant and equipment at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the income statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs that will be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
