86 telent Annual Report 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of telent plc will be held at Glaziers Hall, 9 Montague Close, London Bridge, London SE1 9DD on 20 October 2006 at 11.00am.
As in previous years the Company will take a poll on all resolutions put to shareholders.
This enables the voting preferences of all shareholders to be taken into account, not just those who can physically attend, because every shareholder present in person or by proxy, will be entitled to one vote for each telent share held.
The business of the meeting will be: Ordinary business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as ordinary resolutions: 1.
To receive the Companys accounts and the reports of the directors and the auditors thereon, for the year ended 31 March 2006.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2006.
To reappoint Mr J F Devaney as a director of the Company.
To reappoint Ms H M Green as a director of the Company.
To reappoint Mr W K Koepf as a director of the Company.
To reappoint Mr M E Plato as a director of the Company.
To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That: a in accordance with Article 7.1 of the Companys Articles of Association, the directors be and they are generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of that section up to a maximum nominal amount of 18,000,000: b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 31 December 2007 unless previously revoked by the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired: and c all previous unutilised authorities under Section 80 of the Act shall cease to have effect save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to Section 80 7 of the Act by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted on or after that date.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That subject to passing resolution 9: a in accordance with Article 7.2 of the Companys Articles of Association, the directors be and they are empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 2 of the Act wholly for cash: b the directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash within the meaning of Section 94 3A of the Act as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment: c the powers under paragraph a above other than in connection with a rights issue and paragraph b above shall be limited to i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders excluding any shareholder holding shares as treasury shares where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such ordinary shareholders on a fixed record date are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above of equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 2,700,000: d these authorities shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 31 December 2007, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired: and e all previous authorities under Section 95 of the Act shall cease to have effect.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That the Company be and is generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 166 of the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of the Act on the London Stock Exchange of ordinary shares of 87.5p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors of the Company may from time to time determine, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased under this authority is 6,200,000 representing just under 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital : b the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share purchased under this authority is the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market prices shown in quotations for ordinary shares in the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased, and ii the price stipulated by Article 5 i of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation EC No.
2273 2003 and the minimum price which may be paid is 87.5p per ordinary share in each case exclusive of expenses and advance corporation tax if any payable by the Company : c unless previously renewed, varied or revoked this authority will expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company or, if earlier, 31 December 2007: and d the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before its expiry which will or may be executed in whole or partly after expiry of this authority.
Resolution 11 Recommendation The directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of these resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
By Order of the Board telent plc K D Smith Company Secretary New Century Park PO Box 53 Coventry CV3 1HJ 6 September 2006 Notes 1.
For the purposes of Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 the members entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting shall be those entered in the Companys Register of Members at 11.00am on 18 October 2006.
Any subsequent changes to the Register shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the Meeting.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
The enclosed form of proxy should be lodged with the Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
The lodging of a proxy form will not preclude a member from subsequently attending and voting at the Meeting in person, in which case any votes of the proxy will be superseded.
The form of proxy includes boxes for completion by shareholders who wish to withhold their votes.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified at 2 above.
For this purpose the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The vote on resolution 2 is an advisory vote and arises from the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Mr Devaney and Mr Koepf were reappointed to the Board in September 2003 and are required by the Articles of Association of the Company to be subject to reappointment not more than three years after their last reappointment.
Mr Devaney is the Chairman of the Board and chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Mr Koepf is an independent non-executive director and serves on the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Ms Green and Mr Plato were appointed to the Board on 5 September 2006 and are required by the Articles of Association of the Company to be subject to reappointment at the next annual general meeting following their appointment.
Their biographical details can be found on pages 10 and 11.
Copies of the directors service contracts, the register of directors share interests will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday except Saturday and public holidays and at Glaziers Hall from one hour prior to and during the Meeting.
Coffee and tea will be served from 10.00am to 10.55am.
telent Annual Report 2006 Contents 02 Chairmans statement 04 telent at a glance 04 Telco Services 05 Enterprise Services 06 Directors report 10 Directors biographical details 12 Corporate governance 16 Business and Financial review 24 Report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration 32 Independent auditors report Group accounts 33 Consolidated income statement 34 Consolidated balance sheet 35 Consolidated cash flow statement 36 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 37 Notes to the accounts 76 Independent auditors report Company accounts 77 Company balance sheet 78 Notes to the Company accounts 82 Shareholder information 84 Shareholder services 86 Notice of Annual General Meeting Customary statement regarding forward-looking statements competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that are interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions or dispositions.
A summary of some of the potential risks faced by about future events.
These forward-looking statements can be telent is set out on page 23 in the Business and Financial Review.
identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or telent undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking current facts.
Forward-looking statements often use words such statement contained within this annual report, regardless of whether as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, those statements are affected as a result of new information, future will, may, should, would, could or other words of similar meaning.
Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and Addressees of the Annual Report unknown risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other This Annual Report is addressed solely to the members of telent plc factors that could cause actual results, and telents plans and as a body, to assist them in assessing the strategies adopted by objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or implied the Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
Neither the Company nor its directors accept or assume responsibility to any person for this Annual Report beyond the responsibilities There are several factors which could cause actual results to differ arising from the production of this Annual Report under the materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking requirements of the Companies Act 1985 or any responsibility statements.
Among the factors that could cause actual results to update any statements in this Annual Report.
to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements are changes in the global, political, economic, business, Produced by Radley Yeldar London telent plc Annual report 2006 telent plc New Century Park PO Box 53 Coventry CV3 1HJ United Kingdom Telephone: 44 0 24 7656 2000 Facsimile: 44 0 24 7656 7000 www.
com Service Commitment Value Annual report 2006
