78 telent Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Company accounts i.
Accounting policies for telent plc The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards in the UK UK GAAP.
The key accounting policies are summarised below to facilitate the interpretation of the financial statements.
Accounting convention The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
Currency translation Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated at the rates ruling at that date.
These translation differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account with the exception of certain gains and losses arising under hedging transactions as described below.
Non-sterling net assets are translated at year end rates of exchange.
Key rates used are as follows: Year end rates 2006 2005 US Dollar 1.7346 1.8896 Euro 1.4334 1.4540 Acquisitions and disposals On the acquisition of a business, including an interest in an associated undertaking, fair values are attributed to the Groups share of separate net assets.
Where the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to such net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill capitalised in the balance sheet in the year of acquisition.
The profit or loss on the disposal or closure of a previously acquired business includes the attributable amount of any purchased goodwill relating to that business not previously charged to the profit and loss account.
Taxation Taxation on profit on ordinary activities is that which has been paid or becomes payable in respect of the profits for the year, after taking account of adjustments in respect of prior period liabilities.
Deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income or expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Investments Joint ventures comprise long-term investments where control is shared under a contractual arrangement.
Associates consist of long-term investments in which the Group holds a participating interest and over which it exercises significant influence.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are stated at historic cost less provision for impairment in value.
Other investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment in value.
Finance costs Finance costs of debt are recognised in the profit and loss account over the term of such instruments at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Liquid resources Liquid resources comprise of term deposits with an original maturity of generally less than one year and other readily disposable current asset investments.
Staff costs The average monthly number of employees in telent plc was 63 2005: 79.
2006 2005 Year ended 31 March million million Wages and salaries 6 6 Social security costs 2 2 Other pension costs 7 15 8
