70 telent Annual Report 2006 Notes to the accounts continued 40.
Financial instruments a Treasury policies and organisation The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of the major financial risks faced by the Group.
The Groups treasury activities are coordinated by its central treasury function, which operates in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the Board.
The treasury function advises operational management on treasury matters and undertakes all derivatives transactions, but does not operate as a profit centre.
All treasury-related transactions undertaken by operating businesses are required to be carried out in accordance with guidelines laid down by the treasury function and must comply with the Group risk management policies.
The Group uses financial instruments, including derivatives principally interest rate swaps, cancellable interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward foreign currency exchange contracts to manage interest rate and currency exposure risks, when considered appropriate.
It is the Groups policy that there is no trading in financial hedging instruments, and that all financial hedging instruments are used solely for the purpose of financing or hedging identified exposures of the Group.
As at 31 March 2006, the Group had no outstanding contracts for derivative financial instruments.
b Financial risks faced by the Group The main risks faced by the Group in the financial markets in the years ended 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 were liquidity risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, foreign exchange risk and insurance risk management.
Liquidity risk During the year, the Group funded its activities through cash generated from its operational activities and proceeds of disposals.
A breakdown of the Groups net cash is set out below: 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 million million Free cash 171 231 Less: Gross borrowings 37 Net free cash 171 194 Restricted cash 568 103 Net cash 739 297 Interest rate risk The currency and interest rate profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 were: Fixed rate Floating average Total rate Fixed rate interest rate 31 March 2006 million million million % Euro Other Analysed as Borrowings Fixed rate Floating average Total rate Fixed rate interest rate 31 March 2005 million million million % Euro 27 7 20 2.7 Other 10 10 37 17 20 2.7 Analysed as Borrowings 37 17 20 Floating rate borrowings bear interest based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents.
Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables and investments.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because all deposits and foreign exchange forward contracts are made with creditworthy and authorised counter-parties.
The Groups counterparty risk to foreign currency hedging is weighted at 12.5% of gross exposure up to three months and added to deposit exposure weighted at 100%.
Exposure to any single financial counter-party is limited by policy as a proportion of the central treasury functions free cash deposits to a maximum of 25%.
Therefore the counterparties are all banks with high credit rating assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
Financial instruments continued b Financial risks faced by the Group continued The Group used export credit agencies to assist in managing political and credit risks on major contracts, and makes use of export credit insurance in respect of small to medium-sized contracts when considered appropriate.
However since the sale of the Telecommunications Equipment and International Services business to Ericsson, export credit is no longer required.
Foreign exchange risk The Group is exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates against Sterling for both trading transactions and the translation of net assets and the income statements of overseas subsidiaries.
The main trading currencies of the Group are the US Dollar, Sterling and the Euro.
A breakdown of the Groups cash and liquid resources between currency and details of foreign-currency denominated cash held within the UK is set out in note 26.
The Group commenced hedging identifiable foreign currency cash flow exposures with forward contracts in February 2005.
This activity ceased in December 2005.
The fair value of outstanding foreign exchange contracts at 31 March 2005 was immaterial, and nil at 31 March 2006.
The Group has overseas subsidiaries that earn profits or incur losses in their local currencies.
It is not the Groups policy to hedge the exposures arising from the translation of these overseas results into Sterling.
The Groups sales and profitability are sensitive to exchange rate fluctuations.
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups profits to exchange rates: Reduction in Group reported Sterling profit from operations before Restructuring items and pension & litigation settlements 2006 million 10% reduction in the value of: US Dollar 3 Euro-trade currencies Other 3 Insurance risk management The Group manages centrally the purchase of global insurance policies in respect of major insurance risks, including property material damage business interruption, directors and officers and public liability.
The Group maintains the types of property and liability insurance which the directors regard as appropriate given the nature of the risks run in the course of its business, and for amounts which they consider adequate.
When considering the appropriateness of insurance cover, the directors make assessments of insurable risks using both in-house professionals and the advice of insurance brokers.
The directors have determined what they believe to be the appropriate level of cover having regard, amongst other things, to the Groups loss record, the industry in which it operates, its risk tolerance level, the cost of cover relative to the risk, customer and legal requirements and any relevant and available information on the levels of cover typically purchased by other comparable companies which operate in the Groups industry.
The use of global policies and centrally appointed brokers allows the Group to improve internal control and optimise the overall level of retained risk.
Risk management and insurance spend are concentrated on those insurable risks which are considered potentially catastrophic to the Group as a whole.
The Group continues to work with its insurers and advisors to improve its loss prevention and mitigation process.
c Fair values of financial assets and liabilities There was no material difference between the book values and fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities at 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005.
