Notes to the financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies General information asset swap transaction with the Carrefour Group: keeping the Tesco PLC is a public limited company incorporated in the year end as 31 December will facilitate an easier integration United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985 Registration into the Carrefour Group.
The address of the registered office is The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the New Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire, consolidated financial statements from the date that control EN8 9SL, UK.
commences until the date that control ceases.
As described in the Operating and financial review, the main Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or activity of the Group is that of retailing and associated activities.
income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are Statement of compliance eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Joint ventures and Associates accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretation on a long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group Committee IFRIC interpretations as endorsed by the and one or more other venturers under a contractual agreement.
European Union, and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 An associate is an undertaking, not being a subsidiary or joint applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
venture, over which the Group has significant influence and These are the Groups first consolidated financial statements can participate in the financial and operating policy decisions prepared under IFRSs and IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS of the entity.
An explanation of how the transition from The Groups share of the results of joint ventures and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP to associates is included in the Group Income Statement using the IFRSs has affected the reported financial position, financial equity method of accounting.
Investments in joint ventures and performance and cash flows of the Group are provided in notes associates are carried in the Group Balance Sheet at cost plus 32 and 33. post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets Basis of preparation of the entity, less any impairment in value.
The carrying values The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, of investments in joint ventures and associates include acquired rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the goodwill.
historical cost basis modified for the revaluation of certain If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate financial instruments.
equals or exceed its investment in the joint venture or associate, The accounting policies set out below have been applied the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated incurred obligations to do so or made payments on behalf of financial statements and in preparing an opening IFRSs the joint venture or associate.
Balance Sheet at 29 February 2004 for the purposes of Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures transition to IFRSs, with the exception of IAS 32 and and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups IAS 39 for which a one-year exemption has been taken, interest in the entity.
Use of assumptions and estimates Basis of consolidation The preparation of the consolidated financial statements The Group financial statements consist of the financial requires management to make judgements, estimates and statements of the ultimate parent Company Tesco PLC, assumptions that affect the application of policies and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and Groups share of interests in joint ventures and associates.
The estimates and associated assumptions are Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial based on historical experience and various other factors that statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the bring the accounting policies used into line with those of results of which form the basis of making judgements about the Group.
carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily Subsidiaries apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from A subsidiary is an entity whose operating and financing policies these estimates.
are controlled, directly or indirectly, by Tesco PLC.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on The accounts of the parent Companys subsidiary undertakings an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are are prepared to dates around the Group year end apart from recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the Tesco Taiwan Co. Limited, which for this reporting period have revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision been prepared to 31 December 2005.
Tesco Taiwan Co. Limited and future periods if the revision affects both current and has a different year end to the Group as a result of the pending future periods.
Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement.
46 Tesco plc Note 1 Accounting policies continued Material estimates and assumptions are made in particular with Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their regard to establishing uniform depreciation and amortisation expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, periods for the Group, impairment testing, parameters for where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
measuring pension provisions, determination of the fair value All tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment in of obligations under put options, the likelihood that tax assets accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets when there are can be realised and the classification of certain operations as indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Borrowing costs Following a review of useful economic lives and residual values Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition or the estimated economic life of land premia has been revised construction of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Qualifying from 40 years to infinite.
The impact on the current year assets are those that necessarily take a substantial period of Income Statement is to reduce the annual land premia time to prepare for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs amortisation charge from 21m to nil.
are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which Revenue they occur.
Revenue consists of sales through retail outlets and sales of Investment property development properties.
Investment property is property held to earn rental income Revenue is recorded net of returns, vouchers and value-added and or for capital appreciation rather than for the purpose taxes, when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of Group operating activities.
Investment property assets have been transferred to the buyer.
Commission income is are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recorded based on the terms of the contracts.
The depreciation policies for Investment property are consistent with those described for Other income owner-occupied property.
Interest income is recognised for the period to which it relates on the accruals basis.
Dividends are recognised when a legal Leasing entitlement to payment arises.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards Operating profit of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as Operating profit is stated after profit or loss from propertyoperating leases.
related items but before the share of results of joint ventures and associates, finance income and finance costs.
The Group as a lessor Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded Discontinued operations as receivables at the amount of the Groups net investment A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups in the leases.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting business that represents a separate line of business or periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on geographical area of operations.
Classification as a the Groups net investment in the lease.
discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or earlier, if the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held Rental income from operating leases is recognised on for sale, under IFRS 5 Non-current Assets held for sale.
a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Property, plant and equipment The Group as a lessee Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value in value.
of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability is included Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease anticipated useful economic lives of the assets.
payments are apportioned between finance charges and The following depreciation rates are applied for the Group: reduction of the lease obligations so as to achieve a constant Freehold and leasehold buildings with greater than rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
40 years unexpired at 2.5% of cost Finance charges are charged to the Income Statement.
Leasehold properties with less than 40 years unexpired Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the are depreciated by equal annual instalments over the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of unexpired period of the lease the relevant lease.
Plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings and motor vehicles at rates varying from 10% to 33%.
Tesco plc 47 Notes to the financial statements continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued Sale and leaseback Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Income A sale and leaseback transaction is one where a vendor sells Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
an asset and immediately reacquires the use of that asset by On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the entering into a lease with the buyer.
The accounting treatment attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the sale and leaseback depends upon the substance of the of the profit or loss on disposal.
transaction by applying the lease classification principles Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 29 February 2004 described above and whether or not the sale was made at the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous the assets fair value.
UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at For sale and finance leasebacks, any apparent profit or loss that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior from the sale is deferred and amortised over the lease term.
to 1998 has not been restated and will not be included in For sale and operating leasebacks, generally the assets are sold determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
at fair value, and accordingly the profit or loss from the sale is Intangible assets recognised immediately.
Acquired intangible assets Following initial recognition, the lease treatment is consistent Acquired intangible assets, such as software or pharmacy with those principles described above.
licences, are measured initially at cost and are amortised Business combinations and goodwill on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the Internally-generated intangible assets Research and purchase method.
development expenditure On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities Research costs are expensed as incurred.
of an acquired entity are measured at their fair value.
The interest Development expenditure incurred on an individual project of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion is carried forward only if all the criteria set out in IAS 38 of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Intangible Assets are met, namely: Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the an asset is created that can be identified such as software cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share or new processes : of the net assets of the acquired subsidiary, joint venture or it is probable that the asset created will generate future associate at the date of acquisition.
If the cost of acquisition is economic benefits: and less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets the development cost of the asset can be measured of the acquired entity i. e. a discount on acquisition then the reliably.
difference is credited to the Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
Following the initial recognition of development expenditure, the cost is amortised over the projects estimated useful life, At the acquisition date of a subsidiary, goodwill acquired is usually at 14%-25% of cost per annum.
recognised as an asset and is allocated to each of the cashgenerating units expected to benefit from the business Impairment of tangible and intangible assets combinations synergies and to the lowest level at which excluding goodwill management monitors the goodwill.
Goodwill arising on the At each Balance Sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included within amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine the carrying value of the investment.
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If such indication exists, the recoverable Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually by amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the assessing the recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does to which the goodwill relates.
When the recoverable amount of not generate cash flows that are independent from other the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the impairment loss is recognised.
cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
48 Tesco plc Note 1 Accounting policies continued Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell, Pensions and similar obligations and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future The Group accounts for pensions and other post-employment cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax benefits principally private healthcare under IAS19 Employee discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the Benefits.
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
In respect of defined benefit plans, obligations are measured If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit at discounted present value using the projected unit credit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying method whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an separately in the Income Statement: service costs are spread expense immediately.
systematically over the expected service lives of employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense as allowed the revised estimate of the recoverable amount, but so that by the December 2004 amendment to IAS 19, which has been the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying adopted early by the Group.
amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss had been recognised for the asset or cash-generating Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is an expense as they fall due.
Share-based payments Inventories Employees including Directors of the Group receive part of Inventories comprise goods held for resale and properties held their remuneration in the form of share-based payment for, or in the course of, development and are valued at the transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
Inventories are for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
valued at retail prices and reduced by appropriate margins to The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at take into account factors such as average cost, obsolescence, the grant date using the Black-Scholes model.
In accordance seasonality and damage.
with IFRS 2 Share-based payment, the resulting cost is Cash and cash equivalents charged to the Income Statement over the vesting period.
Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet comprise cash The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original actual levels of vesting.
maturity of three months or less.
Income tax Non-current assets held for sale The tax expense included in the Income Statement comprises Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held current and deferred tax.
for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through sale Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income rather than continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal the Balance Sheet date.
group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Tax is recognised in the Income Statement except to the extent Management must be committed to the sale and it should be that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which expected to be completed within one year from the date of case it is recognised in equity.
Deferred tax is provided using the Balance Sheet liability Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for method, providing for temporary differences between the sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting value less costs to sell.
purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Tesco plc 49 Notes to the financial statements continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited Financial instruments directly to equity, in which case deferred tax is also dealt with Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the in equity.
Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are recognised the contractual provisions of the instrument.
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be Trade receivables available against which deductible temporary differences Trade receivables are not interest-bearing and are stated at can be utilised.
their nominal value, reduced by appropriate allowances The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no Investments longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available Investments are classified as either held-for-trading or to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
available-for-sale, and are measured at subsequent reporting Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other dates at fair value.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
impaired: at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss for Foreign currencies the period.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
At each Balance Financial liabilities and Equity Sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on according to the substance of the contractual arrangements the Balance Sheet date.
All differences are taken to the Income entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that gives a Statement for the period.
residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Pounds Sterling according to the functional currency Interest-bearing borrowings concept of IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded Rates.
Since the majority of consolidated companies operate as at the value of the amount received, net of attributable independent entities within their local economic environment, transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interesttheir respective local currency is the functional currency.
bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any Therefore, assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries difference between cost and redemption value being denominated in foreign currencies are translated at exchange recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the rates prevailing at the date of the Group Balance Sheet: profits borrowings on an effective interest basis.
and losses are translated into Pounds Sterling at average Trade payables exchange rates for the relevant accounting periods.
Exchange Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and nominal value.
transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation Equity instruments differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded in which the operation is disposed of.
at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries that report in the currency of a hyperinflationary economy are restated in terms of the measuring unit current at the Balance Sheet date before they are translated into Pounds Sterling.
50 Tesco plc Note 1 Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Cash flow hedging Accounting policy for year ended 25 February 2006 Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to variability exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk from operational, financing and investment activities.
The associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments probable forecasted transaction.
for trading purposes, however if derivatives do not qualify The effective element of any gain or loss from remeasuring the for hedge accounting they are accounted for as such.
derivative instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at The associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial and recognised in the Income Statement in the same period or instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair value of derivative periods during which the hedged transaction affects the Income financial instruments is determined by reference to market Statement.
Any element of the remeasurement of the derivative values for similar financial instruments, or by discounted instrument which does not meet the criteria for an effective cash flows or by the use of option valuation models.
Where hedge is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains Derivative instruments qualifying for cash flow hedging or losses on remeasurement are immediately recognised in are principally forward foreign exchange transactions and the Income Statement.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge currency options.
accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging on the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no hedged.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationship longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any must be documented and tested for effectiveness.
cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction to document from inception the relationship between the occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment transferred to the Income Statement.
of the relationship between the hedged item and the Net investment hedging hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is hedges when they hedge the Groups net investment in an performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge overseas operation.
The effective element of any gain or loss remains highly effective.
from remeasuring the derivative is recognised directly in equity.
Fair value hedging Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value Income Statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes included in the Income Statement when the foreign operation in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Any gain or is disposed of.
loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument is recognised Derivative instruments qualifying for net investment hedging immediately in the Income Statement.
Any change in the fair are principally forward foreign exchange transactions.
value of the hedged item, attributable to the hedged risk, is adjusted against the carrying value of the hedged item and Derivative financial instruments Accounting policy for year recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
ended 26 February 2005 Derivative instruments utilised by the Group are interest rate Derivative financial instruments qualifying for fair value hedge swaps, floors and caps, forward start interest rate swaps, accounting are principally interest rate swaps.
cross currency swaps, forward rate agreements and forward exchange contracts and options.
Termination payments made or received in respect of derivatives are spread over the life of the underlying exposure in cases where the underlying exposure continues to exist.
Where the underlying exposure ceases to exist, any termination payments are taken to the Income Statement.
