Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements In the course of the current financial year, IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and disconst of Thomas Cook Aktiengesellschaft as of October 31 2006 tinued operations was applied for the first time.
The objective of this standard is to specify the measurement and the presentation of non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale.
The standard has not been applied retrospectively.
General information The financial year of Thomas Cook AG, Oberursel Germany Thomas Cook AG and its princiAdditionally, further standards and interpretations existed that did not require compulsory st pal consolidated subsidiaries encompasses the period from November 1 of any given year through application as at financial year-end and were not implemented ahead of schedule on a voluntary st to October 31 of the following year.
The companys registered head office is located at Thomasbasis.
In the following, only such standards and interpretations are mentioned as could be of imporCook-Platz 1, Oberursel Taunus Germany.
tance to the company: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
Thomas Cook is currently in the process of examining the influence The business operations of Thomas Cook AG include the value-added levels airlines, accomof the new standards on the groups asset, earnings and financial position.
They are not, however, modation, tour operators, distribution and financial services.
expected to exert influence of any major significance.
Accounting information Scope of consolidation In accordance with 315a Sect.
3 HGB German Commercial Code, the consolidated financial In addition to Thomas Cook AG as the parent company, the scope of consolidation includes statements of Thomas Cook AG have been drawn up according to the International Financial Report- 19 domestic and 98 foreign companies.
The scope of consolidation changed from that prevailing on st ing Standards IFRS as applicable in the European Union.
All the standards and interpretations October 31 2005 as follows: requiring compulsory application for the 2005 06 financial year were taken into consideration.
The company Thomas Cook India Ltd. Mumbai India, was sold within Thomas Cook Group by The consolidated financial statements were drawn up in EUR thousand.
Thomas Cook Overseas Ltd. Peterborough Great Britain, to TCIM Ltd. Peterborough Great Britain, th with effect from December 19 2005.
In turn, TCIM Ltd. Peterborough Great Britain, with its Application of new accounting standards 60-percent Indian subsidiary was then sold with effect from January 23rd 2006.
In connection with As part of its Improvement Project, amendments to existing standards were published by the this, the following subsidiaries were deconsolidated backdated to take effect as of November st International Accounting Standards Board.
Moreover, new International Financial Reporting Stand- 1 2005: ards were adopted.
All the adjustments and new standards requiring compulsory application were taken into consideration for these consolidated financial statements.
Thomas Cook India Ltd. Mumbai India, Hindustan Cargo Ltd. Mumbai India, TC Mauritius Holdings Ltd.
Port Louis Mauritius, TC Mauritius Operations Ltd.
Port Louis Mauritius, Thomas The regulations set out in IFRS 3 Business combinations, IAS 36 revised in 2004 Impairment Cook Insurance Services India Ltd. Mumbai India, Thomas Cook Tours Private Ltd. Mumbai India of assets and IAS 38 revised in 2004 Intangible assets had already been applied in the previous and India Horizon Travel & Tours Private Ltd. Mumbai India.
financial year ahead of the mandatory implementation date.
st Thomas Cook Travel Ltd. Mississauga Canada, was sold with effect from May 1 2006.
As of st In its revised version, IAS 1 prescribes the distinction of the balance sheet in terms of maturity July 31 2006, Thomas Cook Overseas Ltd. Peterborough Great Britain, as well as Thomas Cook and its subdivision into financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
This was taken into considLebanon S. a. l. Beirut Lebanon and its direct subsidiary Thomas Cook Lebanon Foreign Exchange eration for these consolidated financial statements.
The figures of the previous year were adjusted S. a. l. Beirut Lebanon, were also sold.
28 The sale of 75.1 percent of the shares held in Aldiana GmbH, Oberursel Germany, with effect The effects of the changes in the scope of consolidation and the changes among the compard from February 3 2006, resulted in the deconsolidation of not only Aldiana GmbH but also that of nies measured under the equity method are shown in the following overview: the following eight companies: Socit Sngalaise fide Ralisations Touristiques S.. r. l. Nianing st Change in the Group as of Oct 31, 2006 Of which due to changes in the MBour Senegal Aldiana Senegal, Aldiana Fuerteventura S. A. Las Gaviotas Spain, Aldiana Hotel st EUR thousand compared with Oct 31, 2005 scope of consolidation Resort Consulting Sarl, Djerba-Midoun Tunisia, Aldiana Management and Consulting AG, PffNon-current assets -201,236 -243,365 fikon Switzerland, Hotel Vela S. L. Aldiana Andalusia, Chiclana fide la Frontera Spain, Hoteles y ReCurrent assets 7,102 116,083 sorts Aldiana S. L. Palma fide Mallorca Spain, Mhlbach am Hochknig Clubhotel GmbH, Mhlbach Austria and Mhlbach am Hochknig Clubhotel GmbH & Co. KG, Mhlbach Austria.
of which cash 57,148 155,354 Equity 86,772 56,499 Furthermore, the company Socit Hotelire Balnaire et Touristique du Cap Bon SOHBATO Non-current provisions liabilities -187.802 -114.623 S. A. Aldiana Nabeul, Nabeul Tunisia, was incorporated into Aldiana GmbH, Oberursel Germany and, as such, deconsolidated in the third quarter of the financial year.
Current provisions liabilities -93.104 -69.158 Balance sheet total -194,134 -127,282 The remaining shares in Aldiana GmbH, Oberursel Germany, were recognised at cost.
Thomas Consolidated result 65,266 57,606 Cook AG no longer has significant influence over the company concerned as it is not represented on a governing body at Aldiana GmbH, Oberursel Germany, has no right of co-determination in terms of the appointment of members of the executive bodies and decision processes at Aldiana GmbH, The equity arising from changes in the scope of consolidation includes earnings generated Oberursel Germany and no influence with regard to profit distribution.
from the deconsolidation of the disposed companies as well as their results.
The purchase prices obtained are shown under current assets due to changes in the scope of consolidation.
The consolidated company Aldiana Rhodes Tourism and Hotel Enterprises A. C. Rhodes Greece, was renamed South Rodos Investments S. A.
Tourist and Hotel Enterprises, Rhodes Greece and sold As far as the companies accounted for applying the equity method are concerned, recent th with effect from October 11 2006.
The consolidated company Aldiana Sarigerme Turizm Ticaret L. S. financial statements are used, the balance sheet date of which lay no more than three months prior st Mugla Turkey, was renamed Hotel Investments Sarigerme, Mugla Turkey.
to the groups year-end of October 31 2006.
Moreover, three domestic and thirteen foreign investments in associates were accounted for The companies consolidated in the year-end financial statements are listed in an appendix applying the equity method in the 2006 financial year.
The company Porto Bay S. G. P. S. S. A. Funattached to the Notes to the Financial Statements.
th chal Portugal, measured under the equity method was sold on December 7 2005.
As part of this transaction, Thomas Cook Destinations GmbH, Oberursel Germany, acquired a 15 percent stake in Principles of consolidation Porto Bay Hotis e Resorts S. A. Funchal Portugal, a subsidiary of Porto Bay S. G. P. S. S. A, Funchal PorAll such subsidiaries as are under the legal and or factual control of Thomas Cook AG have st tugal.
With effect from December 31 2005, the company Esmeralda 10 S. A. Las Palmas Spain, been included in the consolidated financial statements of Thomas Cook AG.
Associated companies merged with Hotelera Adeje S. L. Santa Cruz Spain.
Moreover, the following investments in associhave been measured in accordance with the equity method provided the group held a stake of ates measured under the equity method were sold: Muskita Tourist Enterprises Ltd. Aldiana Cyprus, between 20 percent and 50 percent and was able to exercise decisive management influence.
nd Limassol Cyprus, with effect from February 22 2006, Bright Sky Travel, Hurghada Egypt, as of th March 9th 2006, Zeus of Crete S. A. Heraklion Greece, as of May 30 2006, Inversora fide Hoteles The capital consolidation of Condor Flugdienst GmbH, Kelsterbach Germany and TC Touristik th Vacacionales S. A. Palma fide Mallorca Spain, as of July 13 2006, Creativ Hotel Buenaventura S. A. GmbH, Oberursel Germany, was undertaken in accordance with the pooling of interest method.
As th st Gran Canaria Spain, with effect from September 30 2006, Zeus of Rhodes, Rhodes Greece, as of January 1 1998, Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Cologne Germany, contributed 90 percent of the shares th of October 18 2006 and SAL-Hotis S.. r. l. Santa Maria Cape Verde Islands, with effect from Octoin Condor Flugdienst GmbH, Kelsterbach Germany, while KarstadtQuelle AG, Essen Germany, th ber 16 2006. contributed 90 percent of the shares in TC Touristik GmbH, Oberursel Germany, to Thomas Cook AG formerly known as C&N Touristic AG.
In return, each company received 50 percent of the share capital of Thomas Cook AG.
Consolidated Financial Sta Konzernabschluss tements 29 29 st The resulting difference as of January 1 1998 between the carrying amount of the shares in Foreign currency conversion the two companies in Thomas Cook AG and the share of Thomas Cook AG in their issued capital was For the purposes of drawing up the consolidated financial statements, balance sheet items are offset against the share premium and retained earnings without affecting the income statement.
as a rule converted into euros at the average rate prevailing at financial year-end closing rate and income statement items into euros at the average annual rate taking account of the functional For all additional initial consolidations of subsidiaries, capital consolidation was in all cases currency concept as far as the annual financial statements of the foreign subsidiaries are concerned.
undertaken as per the provisions set out in IAS 22 in accordance with the purchase method up until Only equity items with the exception of net income for the year and the carrying amounts of the st October 31 2003.
According to the benchmark treatment foreseen by IAS 22, capital consolidation consolidated companies as well as the goodwill arising from the capital consolidation of foreign st occurred by offsetting the acquisition cost of the subsidiaries against their revalued pro-rata equity companies prior to November 1 2005 and negative differences are converted at historical exchange st at the time of the acquisition.
Any goodwill arising from this was written off over a period of rates time of first-time consolidation.
All goodwill arisen since November 1 2005 is accounted for between ten and twenty years.
in the currency of the company acquired.
On account of the voluntary advance application of the provisions set out in IFRS 3 with effect For the purposes of equity conversion, the annual financial statements of those foreign comst from November 1 2003, capital consolidation for acquisitions ever since has to be undertaken panies measured under the equity method are converted at the average currency exchange rate according to the purchase method, whereby identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities prevailing at the groups financial year-end.
have to be shown at their fair value prevailing at the time of their acquisition.
The positive difference between the purchase costs and the pro-rata identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent The conversion differences arising from foreign currency conversion are offset against retained liabilities is then capitalised as goodwill.
earnings without impacting on income.
In accordance with the provisions set out in IFRS 3 in conjunction with those set out in the The key exchange rates developed against the euro as follows: revised versions of IAS 36 and IAS 38, capitalised goodwill has no longer been written off on a schedst uled basis since November 1 2003.
The examination of the recoverability of goodwill occurs on a Financial year-end exchange rate Average exchange rate regular basis following the conclusion of the annual planning process.
To the extent that valuest st 1 euro corresponds to Oct 31, 2005 Oct 31, 2006 2004 05 2005 06 related events indicate a significant reduction in the recoverable amount of the given cash-gener aUS Dollar 1.2010 1.2706 1.2682 1.2357 ting unit to which the goodwill is allocated, the recoverability of the goodwill concerned is also Pound Sterling 0.6767 0.6692 0.6869 0.6828 examined during the course of the given year.
Japanese Yen 139.6104 149.7343 136.4686 143.8822 Thai Baht 48.9868 46.6864 50.7262 47.8280 The treatment of the remaining differences in the case of companies measured under the equity method occurs in the same way as in the case of capital consolidation, whereby goodwill is Tunisian Dinar 1.6124 1.6884 1.6117 1.6543 included in investments in associates.
Turkish Lira 1.6196 1.8506 1.6435 1.7605 st Negative differences arising from initial consolidations prior to November 1 2003 were offset against equity without impacting on income.
Such negative differences as have arisen from initial In the previous year, the underlying annual financial statements of one fully consolidated st consolidations subsequent to November 1 2003 have been openly offset via the income statement company of minor importance was drawn up in accordance with the concept of historical cost according to the provisions set out in IFRS 3. based on the provisions set out in IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies.
In this financial year, the aggregate inflation rate undercut the criteria set out in IAS 29 such that an Interim profits and losses, in-group sales, income and expenses as well as receivables and liaadjustment of the financial statements under review was no longer necessary.
bilities among consolidated companies have been eliminated.
Temporary differences arising from in-group consolidations resulted in the necessary tax deferrals being made in accordance with IAS 12.
30 Accounting policies ownership can be attributed to Thomas Cook Group, recognition occurs at the market value of the leased item or at the cash value of the minimum lease payments at the time the contract is conBasics cluded, provided the latter value is lower, plus any ancillary costs payable by the lessee.
The depreThe annual financial statements of the fully consolidated companies are uniformly drawn up ciation methods applied and the useful lives assumed correspond with those applied and assumed according to the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS applying at the time, taking into for comparable assets acquired.
consideration the accounting and valuation methods applied at Thomas Cook AG.
Property, plant and equipment Assumptions and estimates relevant to accounting policies Tangible assets intended to be used for business operations for a period in excess of one year The drawing up of the consolidated financial statements giving due consideration to the are valued at cost less scheduled, straight-line depreciation.
Interest is not included in the cost.
guidelines issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB requires certain assumptions and estimates to be made that impact on the recognition and measurement of the assets and The underlying useful life in each case is set to correspond with the expected useful life in the liabilities, income and expenses as well as the contingent liabilities accounted for.
Depreciation and amortisation based exclusively on tax regulations are not undertaken.
and estimates undergo constant revaluation and are based on historical experiences or expectations in terms of such future events as appear reasonable under the given circumstances.
The New aircraft and back-up engines are depreciated on a straight-line basis down to a residual assumptions and estimates refer primarily to the group wide impairment testing of goodwill, the carrying amount of 15 percent over a period of twelve years, with the exception of four aircraft under recognition and measurement of provisions as well as the realisability of future recoveries of taxes.
a finance lease, which are being depreciated without any residual value over a period of twelve The actual figures or results may deviate from these assumptions or estimates.
Two Boeing 767-300s, which have been acquired on sale-and-lease-back contracts, are being depreciated without any residual value for the terms of the lease contracts over a period of 7.5 Intangible assets years.
Such intangible assets as have been acquired are initially measured at cost.
Internally generated intangible assets, from which the group expects a future benefit and which can be reliably A useful life of between 25 and 50 years is generally assumed for buildings.
However, buildings assessed, are capitalised at cost, the latter being based on the direct costs incurred primarily salaand fixtures on non-owned land are depreciated on a straight-line basis in accordance with the ries and an appropriate premium for overheads.
basic rental term, over a maximum period of ten years however.
A useful life of three years is assumed for standard application software, and no more than five A maximum period of ten years is also set for the useful life of technical equipment and years for other software, including that generated internally.
machinery as well as of office and other equipment.
Goodwill arising from consolidation is accounted for as described under the item Principles of Cost of major inspections and general overhauls consolidation.
The cost of major inspections C4 checks are recorded and recognised separately in accordance with IAS 16.14.
The anticipated cost of the next major technical inspection are offset against the Otherwise, depreciation and amortisation are undertaken on a straight-line basis in accordcarrying amount of the given aircraft and shown under the item Major inspections for aircraft.
ance with the given contractual term or the expected useful life of the rights acquired, up to maxiDepreciation is undertaken on a straight-line basis over the period up until the next major inspecmum period of ten years.
Finance leases Investments in associates measured under the equity method According to the provisions set out in IAS 17, the economic ownership of leased items is Such investments in associates measured under the equity method are recognised at the costs assumed to be attributable to the lessee if more or less all the risks and opportunities associated incurred at the time of acquisition.
with ownership of the given items have been transferred to the lessee.
To the extent that economic Consolidated Financial Sta Konzernabschluss tements 31 31 In the following periods, the carrying amounts of the investments accounted for applying the are recognised directly in the profit and loss statement.
If necessary, the deferred taxes correspondequity method are increased or reduced by the investors share of the associates updated equity.
In ing to the changes in value are given due consideration.
If securities classified as being available for the following periods an impairment test for the goodwill included in investments in associates is sale are sold or impaired, the changes in value previously recorded in equity are then recognised in only performed if there is an indication that the value of the entire holding reported is impaired.
the profit and loss statement.
Inventories Derivative financial instruments Other spare parts, raw materials, supplies and merchandise are valued at the average cost of Thomas Cook Group is subject to risks related to changes in interest rates, exchange rates and purchase or, if lower, at the net realisable value.
Write-downs are undertaken to a sufficient extent fuel prices within the framework of its business operations.
Use is made of derivative financial in connection with the inventory risks arising from the prolonged storage and reduced usability of instruments in order to limit these risks.
Binding internal guidelines provide the framework governraw materials, supplies and merchandise.
ing actions taken, responsibilities and controls.
The use of derivative financial instruments is thus generally not permitted for speculative purposes, but instead serves exclusively to hedge existing Financial assets underlyings or planned transactions.
Financial assets are recognised at their fair value on the day of settlement, i. e. either at the time the claim arises or economic ownership is transferred.
For subsequent measurement, financial In accordance with the provisions set out in IAS 39, all derivative financial instruments should assets are divided into the following categories: 1 financial assets at fair value through profit or be carried at their fair values.
To this end, the market valuation of the derivative financial instruloss, 2 financial assets held to maturity, 3 loans and receivables granted by the company and 4 ments used occurs on the basis of existing market information or appropriate valuation methods.
financial assets available for sale.
Their classification depends on the purpose of their acquisition.
The fair value of options is determined with the aid of recognised option price models and the fair Financial assets are considered to be current assets if they are realised within twelve months after value of interest rate derivatives taking account of residual terms to maturity on the basis of current the balance sheet date or held are for trading.
market interest rates and the interest rate structure curve.
The positive market values of derivative financial instruments are capitalised under financial assets while negative market values are shown In addition to the financial assets held for trading, financial assets at fair value through profit under financial liabilities.
or loss also include such financial instruments as are designated initially at fair value through profit or loss.
Following their initial recognition, they are subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains and Within the framework of IAS 39, all financial derivatives are recognised in the balance sheet at losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they cost and measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
If the financial instruments used generoccur.
At Thomas Cook Group, no voluntary designation of financial instruments to the category at ate highly effective hedging transactions within the context of a hedging relationship between the fair value through profit or loss occurs.
Derivatives also belong to this category to the extent that financial instrument concerned and the corresponding underlying transaction in accordance with they are not classed as hedges.
the provisions set out in IAS 39, the fluctuations in fair value do not affect profit or loss of the given period during the term of the financial instrument concerned.
At each balance sheet date, loans and receivables granted by the company as well as financial assets held to maturity are measured at amortised cost subsequent to their initial recognition at Individual hedging transactions considered necessary for business management reasons meet fair value.
In the case of financial assets bearing no or low interest, cost equate to their present value only in part the special requirements for effectiveness stipulated by the provisions set out in IAS 39 at the time the claim arises.
and are therefore included directly in profit or loss in the form of their fair value fluctuations.
Assets available for sale are non-derivative financial assets that have either been designated to Thomas Cook Group is active in a multitude of destinations and sales markets and, as such, is this category or have not been designated to any other category.
Assets available for sale and those exposed to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations in its operating business.
Such risks are hedged via held for trading are measured at fair value at financial year-end.
Changes in the value of such finanforward currency transactions and currency options, whereby use is made of price-range options cial assets as have been designated to the category available for sale are recognised in equity that take the form of a combination of the purchase and simultaneous sale of currency options in without impacting on income.
By contrast, changes in the value of financial assets held for trading the same currency.
Price-range options are generally concluded as zero-cost options, i. e. the payable premium corresponds to the premium arising from the option sale.
32 Fuel price hedging is undertaken in the form of fixed-price and option transactions in the Such receivables as are denominated in foreign currencies are measured at the spot exchange crude and fuel oil markets: gas oil and kerosene derivatives are also used to a more limited extent.
rate prevailing at financial year-end.
Interest-rate swap transactions are concluded in the main to hedge risks arising from interest Cash and cash equivalents rate movements and or to optimise asset investments, in the case of which the variable interest Cash and cash equivalents encompass cash on hand, demand deposits and other short-term, rate of the underlying transaction is exchanged for a fixed interest rate or vice versa, mostly for its highly liquid financial assets with an original term of at most three months as well as current bank entire term.
overdrafts, the latter being shown in the balance sheet as liabilities due to banks under current financial liabilities.
Cash in bank and bank loans and overdrafts as well as cash on hand denomiHedging transactions are concluded for the purposes of either hedging fair values fair value nated in non-euro currencies are converted at the spot exchange rate prevailing at financial yearhedge or cashflow changes cashflow hedge.
The fair value fluctuations of effective hedges are dealt with as follows: Non-current assets classified as held for sale and liabilities related to such assets a The fair value fluctuations of a hedging instrument within the framework of an effective Non-current assets held for sale are classified as such only if their carrying amounts will be cashflow hedge are recognised in the corresponding reserve as equity without impacting on recovered principally through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use.
case if the assets are available for immediate sale in their present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for the sale of such assets, such a sale is in principal terms highly b The fair value fluctuations of a hedging instrument within the framework of en effective probable within one year and the search for a buyer has been initiated.
Measurement occurs at the fair value hedge are recognised in profit or loss: the offset amount balancing the income statement lower of the assets carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Such non-current assets as are arises from the changes in the value of the hedged item, which are also recorded in the income held for sale are no longer depreciated or amortised from the point in time at which the intention statement.
In the case of a lower fair value less cost to sell, an impairment loss shall be recognised.
If the secured cashflow underlying transaction concerned is an investment project, all the fluctuations in the market value of the cashflow hedges recorded up to the maturity of the underlyThe presentation of non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale are summarised as a ing transaction in equity are rebooked from the equity reserve to the acquisition cost of the given separate balance sheet item within assets.
The liabilities directly associated with the given assets investment.
are also summarised as a separate balance sheet item and shown under liabilities.
In accordance with Thomas Cook Groups hedging guidelines, the policy is to conclude only Retirement benefit obligations effective derivatives to hedge interest rate, foreign currency and fuel price risks.
Retirement benefit obligations are determined and accounted for according to the projected unit credit method taking account of salary and pension increases for defined benefit plans in Receivables and other assets accordance with the provisions set out in IAS 19.
To the extent that they are not held for trading, receivables and other assets are initially measured at fair value and then subsequently at amortised cost.
Retirement benefit obligations are measured by adding actuarial gains losses not recognised and subtracting past service cost not yet recognised from the present value of the obligation preIn case of doubt concerning the realisability of certain receivables, those are valued at the vailing at the balance sheet date.
In addition to any necessary allowance for doubtful debt, recognisable risks identified as general credit risks are taken into account by setting up individual lump-sum allowances.
Non-current receivables are measured at the lower present value.
Consolidated Financial Sta Konzernabschluss tements 33 33 The defined benefit commitments in respect of company pension schemes for the employees Deferred income tax assets and liabilities at Thomas Cook UK Ltd. Peterborough Great Britain hereinafter termed Thomas Cook UK and the Deferred taxes are reported in line with the provisions set out in IAS 12 according to the liabilgroups Dutch companies are administered by external pension funds.
These companies honour ity method for all temporary valuation differences between the tax basis of the given assets or liatheir obligations by paying premiums to the respective employee pension funds.
In the event of a bilities and their carrying amounts shown in the IFRS financial statements.
Tax loss carry forwards shortfall existing in the coverage of the assets in the employee pension funds at financial year-end that can probably be used for the taxable income of the group companies within a planning period due to the application of the measurement guidelines set out in IAS 19, an obligation towards these of five years are capitalised at an amount equating to the deferred tax claim.
If a minimum level of funds is shown under retirement benefit obligations.
Advance payments on premiums are capitaltaxation applies in the countries concerned, this is given due consideration in the planning.
Tempoised to the extent that these payments will lead to a refund or reduction in future payments.
Acturary differences of the domestic group companies have been taxed at a rate of 36 percent.
The arial losses are recognised according to the ten percent corridor method.
income tax rates applied for foreign companies vary between 16 percent and 35 percent.
Other provisions and accruals Recognition of revenue and expenses Other provisions and accruals are set up in accordance with IAS 37 to the extent that a present Revenue from leisure travel services initiated prior to financial year-end and completed after obligation towards a third party exists as a result of a past event that will lead to an outflow of that date are recorded on the basis of the percentage of completion method, whereby the assumpresources embodying economic benefits in the future.
Provisions and accruals for onerous contracts tion is made that half of the services rendered by the given tour operator have on average been are set up to the extent that no impairment of the respective assets can be taken into account.
The other sales and other operating income are recognised upon reliable estimate of the obligation is a prerequisite for recognising provisions and accruals.
They provision of the service concerned and or transferral of the risk of ownership to the customer.
may only be set up if all of the above mentioned criteria have been met: otherwise, the corresponding obligations are carried under contingent liabilities.
Operating expenses are recognised as profit or loss upon utilisation of the given service respectively at the point in time at which they are caused.
Interest expenses and income are recogProvisions and accruals are measured at the present value of the commitment at the balance nised pro rata temporis.
As a rule, dividends are recognised provided the associated claim originated sheet date.
Any increase in provisions and accruals resulting from the unwinding of the discount is legally.
recognised as interest expense in profit or loss.
Commitments with a term to maturity of in excess of one year are allocated to non-current liabilities.
Impairment of assets Intangible assets and fixed assets are impaired if the recoverable amount of the given asset Liabilities has fallen below its carrying amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less cost Liabilities are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and are subsequently to sell and the present value of the future cashflows expected to be derived from the asset.
Non-current liabilities arising from finance lease contracts are carried at the present value of the lease instalments prevailing at the time of contract conclusion.
Government grants for assets are shown as deferred income in the balance sheet and booked to the income statement pro rata temporis based on the useful life of the subsidised assets concerned.
Liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are valued at the spot rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
