Opinion of the Auditor of the Consolidated Financial Statements After concluding the audit we have issued the following auditors opinion dating from Our audit has not led to any reservations.
th January 9, 2006: In our opinion based on the findings of our audit the consolidated financial statements comply Auditors Opinion with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to 315a Abs.
1 HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by the Thomas Cook results of operations of the Group in accordance with these requirements.
The group management Aktiengesellschaft, Oberursel Taunus, comprising the balance sheet, the income statement, statereport is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a suitable ment of changes in equity, cashflow statement and the notes to the consolidated financial stateview of the Groups position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future developst ments, together with the group management report for the business year from November 1 2005 ment.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report in accordance with the IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements th of German commercial law pursuant to Article 315a Abs.
paragraph 1 HGB  am Main Germany, January 9 2007 buch: German Commercial Code are the responsibility of the parent Companys Board of Managing Directors.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report based on our audit.
 Aktiengesellschaft We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with 317 HGB  and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprfer Institute of Public Auditors in Germany IDW.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial signed Drger signed Thei statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the group man-Wirtschaftsprfer Wirtschaftsprfer agement report are detected with reasonable assurance.
Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures.
The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the group management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit.
The audit includes assessing the annual financial statements of those entities included in consolidation, the determination of the entities to be included in consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by the Companys Board of Managing Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
