Supervisory Board Report st During the course of the past financial year, the Supervisory Board complied with its obligaOn 1 November 2005, Mr. Thomas Holtrop took over from Mr. Wolfgang Beeser who was tions in the form of four meetings as well as through written reports from the Management Board simultaneously appointed a member of the Supervisory Board as Chairman of the Management in which it obtained information on the intended business policy and basic issues relating to future Board.
He resigned from his position as Chairman of the Management Board and member of the th planning, development of the earnings and financial situation as well as all essential activities perManagement Board on 12 December 2006.
He was succeeded by Mr. Manuel Fontenla-Novoa who th taining to the company and the group.
was appointed Chairman of the Management Board with effect from 12 December 2006. st Activities performed by the Supervisory Board in fiscal 2005 06 focussed on decisions regarMr.
Dirk Glinkowski withdrew from the Supervisory Board on 31 December 2005: he was ding the future strategic positioning of the Thomas Cook Group including partial replacement of succeeded by his deputy, Mr. Harald Gall.
existing IT systems in the tour operator business by a comprehensive pan-European booking and st information platform as well as restructuring measures in the sales markets of France and the With effect from 31 May 2006, Dr. Karl-Ludwig Kley resigned as a member of the Supervisory st Netherlands.
Mr. Stephan Gemkow joined the Supervisory Board as his successor on 1 June 2006.
The Supervisory Board performed its tasks in accordance with its obligations by law and The Supervisory Board thanks all members who have withdrawn or resigned for their active company statutes, and monitored the company management.
It examined the most significant participation within the body.
incidents and consulted with the Management Board during its meetings regarding business development in general as well as key individual events.
The Supervisory Board thanks the Management Board, management personnel and all employees for the commitment displayed in yet another difficult environment.
The auditing company selected and commissioned by the Supervisory Board, Pricewaterhousest Coopers Aktiengesellschaft, auditing company in Frankfurt, has inspected the year-end results and Oberursel, 31 January 2007 annual report pertaining to Thomas Cook Aktiengesellschaft and the Group on the basis of accounts and bookkeeping and issued its unqualified audit certificate.
The auditors participated in the SuperThe Supervisory Board visory Board meeting during which the year-end results and Group financial statement were discussed, reported on their audit and answered questions which arose.
Signed: Dr. Thomas Middelhoff Chairman The Supervisory Board has acknowledged the results of the audit.
It has examined the yearend results and annual report of Thomas Cook AG and the Group.
No objections have been made.
The Supervisory Board has approved the year-end results and annual report as well as the Group year-end results and Group annual report.
The year-end results and Group year-end results are hereby completed.
Supervisory Boar Konzernabschluss d Report 71 71 Contact Thomas Cook AG Corporate Communications Thomas-Cook-Platz 1 61440 Oberursel, Germany Phone: 49 0 61 71 65 17 00 Fax: 49 0 61 71 65 10 60 Internet: www.
