Shareholder information Shareholder information Investor services Trading symbols Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Tomkins London Stock Exchange SEDOL number is 0896265 ISIN A Tomkins ISA enables UK residents to invest in the Company in a code GB0008962655 and its trading symbol is TOMK.
The Companys tax efficient manner.
You can obtain more information on ISAs from trading symbol for its American Depositary Receipts ADRs is TKS.
our corporate ISA provider, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6UY, or by telephoning 0870 242 4244.
Website The Companys website address is www.
All Tomkins Share dealing recent results announcements and press releases are accessible, Internet and telephone share dealing services have been arranged together with the latest and previous versions of the Annual Report through Lloyds TSB Registrars which provide a simple way of buying and Summary Annual Report.
The Group website also provides direct or selling Tomkins ordinary shares.
For internet dealing, existing links to the websites of Tomkins main operating companies.
shareholders should log on to www.
You will need your shareholder reference number shown on your share Share price information certificate or tax voucher.
For new investors, the log on address is The price of Tomkins ordinary shares and its ADRs is available, with www.
The commission rate for internet a 20-minute delay, on the Companys website, www.
dealing is 0.5% with a minimum charge of 15.
For telephone The site also provides historic share price information, index dealing please call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30 am and 4.30 pm, comparators and a shareholding calculator tool.
Monday to Friday: the commission rate for share transactions by Dividends telephone is 1% with a minimum charge of 25.
A weekly postal The final dividend of 8.57p per ordinary share will be paid on 27 June dealing service is also available and a form together with terms and 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on conditions can be obtained by calling 0870 242 4244: commission 25 May 2007.
For holders of ADRs, the dividend, declared in pence, is 1% with a minimum charge of 10. is converted to US dollars on the UK dividend payment date using Global Invest Direct the exchange rate prevailing on that day.
A simple dealing service is available to US residents only for buying Payment of dividends and selling Tomkins ADRs.
Details can be obtained from JPMorgan Shareholders who have mandated their dividends to be credited Chase Bank, N. A. PO Box 3408, South Hackensack, NJ 07606-3408, to a nominated bank or building society account should note that or by telephoning 1 800 428 4237 or emailing adr@jpmorgan.
dividends are paid automatically to their account through the Bankers Registrar Automated Clearing Services BACS with the associated tax voucher Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in Tomkins plc, being sent direct to shareholders at their registered address unless such as loss of a share certificate, dividend payment instructions, requested otherwise.
If the nominated account is with a bank or or a change of address, should be notified direct to the registrar, building society which is not a member of BACS, both the payment whose address is Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, and tax voucher are sent to the account holding branch.
Your correspondence should refer to who do not currently mandate their dividends and who wish to have Tomkins plc, quoting the reference 0398, and state the registered their dividend paid direct to a bank or building society account should name and address of the shareholder.
complete a dividend mandate instruction form obtainable from Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, Every effort is made to prevent multiple mailing of documents to or by telephoning 0870 600 3953. shareholders.
If you have received more than one copy of this Report and would like to amalgamate your holdings, please complete the Dividend Reinvestment Plan enclosed Shareholder Register Multiple Accounts form and return it The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
This allows to the registrar at the address on the form.
shareholders to invest their cash dividend in purchasing shares of the Company in the market.
The Companys Registrar arranges, on Electronic communication behalf of participants, through the agency of a suitably authorised The registrar operates a share register internet enquiry service to stockbroking business, the purchase of the maximum whole number provide shareholders with details of their shareholdings.
To register of ordinary shares possible on, or as soon as reasonably practicable for the service please go to www.
You will need your after, the dividend payment date.
Favourable dealing costs have shareholder reference which can be found on your share certificate been arranged.
For further details or an application form please or tax voucher and you will be asked to select your own PIN.
A user write to Lloyds TSB Registrars, Share Dividend Team, The Causeway, ID will then be posted to you.
Once registered, shareholders may elect Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, or telephone their Helpline on to receive future shareholder information and Company documents 0870 241 3018. in electronic format.
The main benefits of this system are speed and ease of use while saving money for your Company and reducing the 170 Annual Report 2006 Shareholder information demand on natural resources.
co. uk will also provide you with more details of the service and practical help and information on other share registration matters.
Further details can be found on the Electronic Communications letter enclosed with this Report.
Electronic proxy voting Shareholders may register their voting instructions for the forthcoming Annual General Meeting via the internet.
If you have registered for the registrars shareview service described above, you may submit your voting instructions by logging on to your shareview portfolio and accessing the Company Meetings Tomkins site.
If you have not registered with shareview, you may still register your vote electronically by going to www.
You will be required to key in the three security numbers printed on your form of proxy to access the voting site.
ADR holders Tomkins ordinary shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of ADRs.
Each ADR represents four Tomkins ordinary shares.
Tomkins is subject to the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the USA as they apply to foreign companies and files with the SEC its Annual Report on Form 20-F and other information as required.
ADR holders are not members of the Company but may instruct JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. PO Box 3408, South Hackensack, NJ 07606-3408, USA which administers the Tomkins ADR programme, as to the exercise of voting rights pertaining to the number of ordinary shares represented by their ADRs.
Directors Report and Accounts Companies House In accordance with the requirements of the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales the registrar and following the passing of the resolution to be proposed at the 2007 Annual General Meeting to receive the financial statements, a copy of the Directors Report and Accounts omitting photographic representations and with such further modifications as may be necessary to comply with such requirements will be lodged with the registrar in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
After being so lodged, further copies of the Directors Report and Accounts or the Summary Annual Report in the form sent to shareholders will be available from the Company Secretary upon request.
