Directors report Governance Annual General Meeting The business to be transacted at the AGM is as follows: Resolution 9 special business and special resolution Resolution 9 seeks authority for the Company to make market Resolution 1 purchases of its own ordinary shares up to a maximum of 10% of Receive and adopt the Tomkins Annual Report 2006. the issued ordinary share capital.
Your Board may make purchases Resolution 2 of the Companys shares if it considers such purchases will result Approve the 2006 Tomkins Remuneration Committee report.
in an increase in earnings per share and are in the best interests of shareholders generally.
The Company may also purchase its Resolution 3 own shares in order that they can, at the relevant time, be Declare a dividend.
allocated to employees as required under the Companys Annual Resolution 4 Bonus Incentive Plan.
If the Company purchases any of its ordinary Reappoint a Director.
The Directors of the Company at the year shares pursuant to resolution 9, the Company may cancel these end are listed in the table on page 25.
They were all Directors shares or hold them in treasury.
Such decision will be made by throughout the year, with the exception of Mr D H Richardson your Board at the time of purchase on the basis outlined above.
who was appointed a Director on 1 March 2006.
In accordance At last years AGM, the Company was given authority to make with the Articles of Association, David Newlands, Jack Keenan market purchases of up to 77,451,900 ordinary shares of 5p each.
and Sir Brian Pitman retire by rotation.
Jack Keenan and Sir Brian 939,770 ordinary shares of 5p have been purchased by the Pitman will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
Company in the market since then.
David Newlands will be seeking reappointment and brings to the Board and the affairs of the Company considerable financial Options to subscribe for a total of 20,410,807 ordinary shares and management experience, having been Finance Director of of 5p each in the Company, being 2.38% of the issued ordinary The General Electric Company, plc and a Non-Executive Director share capital excluding treasury shares, were outstanding at of a number of other companies.
He also has substantial 14 February 2007.
If the Company were to purchase the maximum experience in relationships with institutional shareholders.
David number of ordinary shares permitted under the existing authority Newlands performed well during the year, evidenced by the Board and resolution 9, the options outstanding at 14 February 2007 evaluation and the Board strongly supports his reappointment and would represent 2.94% of the issued ordinary share capital recommends that shareholders vote in favour of his reappointment.
Resolutions 5 and 6 Resolution 10 special business and ordinary resolution Reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent auditors and Resolution 10 takes advantage of the new provisions of the authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Companies Act 2006, enabling Tomkins to make greater use of electronic media in shareholder communications.
Resolution 7 ordinary resolution Resolution 7 renews the Directors authority to issue relevant Notice of Meeting securities up to an amount not exceeding 14,265,337, Notice is hereby given that the eighty-first AGM of the Company representing 285,306,740 ordinary shares of 5p each, being will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad 1 33 3% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Wednesday shares as at 14 February 2007, until the next AGM.
The Company 13 June 2007 at 11.00 am to transact the following business: held 2,370,822 shares in treasury as at 14 February 2007, being 1.
To receive the Directors report and financial statements for 0.28% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury the year ended 30 December 2006 together with the shares as at that date.
There are at present no plans to exercise independent auditors report.
this authority, except in relation to share options and other similar categories of allotment.
To approve the Remuneration Committee report for the year ended 30 December 2006.
Resolution 8 special resolution Resolution 8 renews the Directors authority to allot or, in the 3.
To declare a final dividend of 8.57p per ordinary share for the case of treasury shares, sell, shares for cash without first offering year ended 30 December 2006. them to existing shareholders on a pro rata basis until the next 4.
To reappoint as a Director David Newlands.
The authority sought is limited to the issue or, in the case of treasury shares, sale of up to 42,914,540 ordinary shares of 5p 5.
To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent auditors.
each 2,145,727, being approximately but not more than 5% 6.
To authorise the Directors to determine the independent of the issued ordinary share capital as at 14 February 2007.
Board confirms its intention, in line with the guidelines issued by representatives of institutional investors, that not more than 7.5% To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which of the issued ordinary share capital will be allotted, or, in the case will be proposed as an ordinary resolution: of treasury shares, sold, for cash on a non pre-emptive basis 7.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby authorised in during any three-year period.
accordance with, and subject to the terms of, article 5 of the Companys Articles of Association to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 14,265,337.
42 Annual Report 2006 Directors report Governance Notes To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions 1.
Any shareholder entitled to attend and vote at this Meeting may appoint a which will be proposed as special resolutions: proxy to attend and vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A white form of proxy for use by ordinary shareholders 8.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby authorised in and or a green form of proxy for use by convertible cumulative preference accordance with, and subject to the terms of, article 6 of the shareholders is are enclosed.
To be valid, proxy forms must reach the Companys Articles of Association to allot shares for cash for Companys registrar by 11.00 am on 11 June 2007. the purposes of paragraph ii of article 6 up to an aggregate 2.
Only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company nominal amount of 2,145,727. as at 11.00 am on 11 June 2007 shall be entitled to attend and or vote at this Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name 9.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after unconditionally authorised, in substitution for any authority 11.00 am on 11 June 2007 shall be disregarded in determining the rights to purchase ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the of any person to attend and or vote at this Meeting.
Company previously conferred save to the extent the same 3.
As at 28 February 2007, the Companys capital consisted of 858,376,100 has been exercised, to make market purchases within the ordinary shares with voting rights.
The Company held 2,323,489 ordinary meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of shares in treasury.
Therefore the number of voting rights in respect of the issued ordinary shares was 856,052,611.
In addition, the Company had in ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the Company issue 2,621,247 convertible cumulative preference shares of US$50, which Shares provided that: had a total voting entitlement of 3,658,501 voting rights.
Therefore, the total voting rights in Tomkins plc as at 28 February 2007 was 859,711,112.
A. the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 85,829,110 Shares or, if lower, such number 4.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for this Meeting of Shares as is equal to 10% of the issued ordinary share and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the capital of the Company at the close of business on CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored Tuesday 12 June 2007: members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, B. the maximum price which may be paid for any Share is who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service market quotations for a Share as derived from the London to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications immediately preceding the day on which the Share is and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes contracted to be purchased and the minimum price which the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to may be paid for any such Share shall be the nominal value a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted of that Share: and so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by 11.00 am on 11 June 2007.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be C. this authority shall expire on 30 June 2008 or, if earlier, at the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve 2008, but a contract of purchase may be made before the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
such expiry which will or may be executed wholly or partly After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
thereafter, and a purchase of Shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy will be proposed as an ordinary resolution: Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to 10.
THAT the Company may serve any notice or send or supply take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his any other document or information to a member by making CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be the notice, document or information available on a website necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST or by sending or supplying it in electronic form within the system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, meaning of section 1168 of the Companies Act 2006. where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning By Order of the Board practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
N C Porter The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Secretary Securities Regulations 2001.
Copies of the service contracts of Executive Directors and the letters of Registered Office: appointment of Non-Executive Directors of the Company will be available East Putney House for inspection during usual business hours on any weekday public holidays excepted at East Putney House, 84 Upper Richmond Road, London SW15 84 Upper Richmond Road 2ST from the date of this Notice until the time of the Meeting and at The London SW15 2ST Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre from 15 minutes before the Meeting until it ends.
