Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements Minority 1.
Nature of operations interest Gates Korea Company Limited 49% Tomkins plc and its subsidiaries together, the Company comprise Gates Unitta India Private Company Limited 49% a global engineering and manufacturing business.
The Company is Gates Unitta Korea Company Limited 49% organized for management reporting purposes into two business Gates Unitta Power Transmission Suzhou Limited 49% groups: Industrial & Automotive and Building Products.
Gates Unitta Power Transmission Shanghai Limited 49% Industrial & Automotive manufactures a wide range of systems and Gates Unitta Asia Company Limited 49% components for car, truck and industrial equipment manufacturing Gates Unitta Asia Trading Company Pte Limited 49% markets, and industrial and automotive aftermarkets throughout the Gates Unitta Thailand Company Limited 49% world.
During the year, Industrial & Automotive operated through five Gates Winhere Automotive Pump Products Yantai Co Limited 40% operating segments: Power Transmission, Fluid Power, Wiper Systems, Schrader Lu Hai Rubber Metal Kunshan Company Limited 40% Fluid Systems and Other Industrial & Automotive.
Wiper Systems is in the process of being sold and is classified as a discontinued operation.
Where accumulated losses applicable to a minority interest in a subsidiary exceed the minoritys interest in the equity of the subsidiary, Building Products is comprised of two operating segments: Air Systems the excess is allocated to the Companys interest in the subsidiary, Components and Other Building Products.
Air Systems Components except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and supplies the industrial and residential heating, ventilation and air is able to make an additional investment to cover its share of the conditioning market mainly in North America.
Other Building Products accumulated losses.
manufactures a variety of products for the building and construction industries mainly in North America.
During fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, there were no variable interest entities in which the Company was deemed to be the primary beneficiary.
Summary of significant accounting policies C. Associates A.
Basis of preparation An associate is an entity over which Tomkins plc, either directly The consolidated financial statements on pages 101 to 148 have or indirectly, is in a position to exercise significant influence by been prepared in accordance with US generally accepted accounting participating in, but not controlling or jointly controlling, the financial principles US GAAP.
and operating policies of the entity.
Associates are accounted for The Companys annual financial statements are drawn up to the using the equity method whereby the Companys share of the Saturday nearest December 31.
These financial statements cover the earnings or losses of associates is included in consolidated net fiscal year from January 1, 2006 to December 30, 2006 fiscal 2006 income and the Companys share of the net assets of its associates with comparative figures for the fiscal year from January 2, 2005 to is included within other long-term assets.
December 31, 2005 fiscal 2005 and for the fiscal year from Gains and losses recognized by Tomkins plc or its subsidiaries on January 4, 2004 to January 1, 2005 fiscal 2004. transactions with an associate are eliminated to the extent of the B.
Basis of consolidation Companys interest in the associate concerned.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Tomkins As at December 30, 2006, the Companys associates were as follows: plc and its subsidiaries.
Ownership A subsidiary is an entity controlled, either directly or indirectly, by interest the Company, where control is the power to govern the financial  Thermostat Co. Limited 32% and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefit from its Ideal International SA 40% activities.
The income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired during Pyung Hwa CMB Co. Limited 21% the period are included in the Companys income and expenses from Schrader Duncan Ltd 50% the date of acquisition.
The income and expenses of a subsidiary sold CoLinx LLC 20% during the period are included in the Companys income and expenses up to the date of disposal.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Companys interest in the associate are not recognized, except to the extent that the Company Transactions between Tomkins plc and its subsidiaries or between has incurred obligations on behalf of the associate.
fellow subsidiaries, and any balances and unrealized gains and losses arising from such transactions, are eliminated on consolidation.
D. Foreign currency translation At entity level, transactions denominated in currencies other than the As at December 30, 2006, the carrying amount of minority interests entitys functional currency are translated into the entitys functional in subsidiaries that were not wholly owned by the Company was currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
$99.7 million December 31, 2005: $83.3 million, which comprised Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are the following outside ownership interests: retranslated at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Currency translation differences are recognized in the statement of income for the period.
106 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP I.
Summary of significant accounting policies Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market with due continued allowance for any excess, obsolete or slow moving items based on managements review of on-hand inventories compared to historical On consolidation, the results of operations of entities whose and estimated future sales and usage profiles.
functional currency is other than the US dollar are translated into US dollars at the average exchange rate for the period and their Cost represents the expenditure incurred in bringing inventories to assets and liabilities are translated into US dollars at the exchange their existing location and condition, which may include the cost rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Currency translation differences of raw materials, direct labor costs, other direct costs and related are recognized within other comprehensive income as a separate production overheads.
Cost is generally determined on a first in, first component of shareholders equity.
In the event that such an out FIFO basis, but the cost of certain inventories is determined on operation is sold, the cumulative currency translation differences a last in, first out LIFO basis.
As at December 30, 2006, inventories that are attributable to the operation are reclassified to income.
whose cost was determined on a LIFO basis represented 33% December 31, 2005: 35% of the total carrying amount of inventories.
In the statement of cash flows, the cash flows of operations whose As at December 30, 2006, the replacement cost of inventories whose functional currency is other than the US dollar are translated into cost was determined on a LIFO basis exceeded their carrying values by US dollars at the average exchange rate for the period.
Property, plant and equipment Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized only when there is Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated persuasive evidence of a sales agreement, the delivery of goods has depreciation and any recognized impairment losses.
Major occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and the collectability improvements are capitalized.
Expenditures for repairs and of revenue is reasonably assured.
Revenue is measured at the invoiced maintenance are charged to expense as incurred.
amount net of returns, early settlement discounts, rebates and sales taxes.
The Company accrues for rebates pursuant to specific Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
arrangements with certain of its customers, primarily in the Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, other than freehold aftermarket.
Rebates generally provide for price reductions based land and assets under construction, is generally provided on a upon the achievement of specified purchase volumes and are straight-line basis so as to charge the depreciable amount to expense recorded as a reduction in revenue when recognized.
over the estimated useful life of the asset concerned.
The estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment are in the Revenue on long-term contracts is recognized by the  ranges: completion method determined by comparing contract costs incurred for work performed to date to estimated total contract costs.
Losses Freehold buildings and long on contracts, if any, are recognized in the period when such losses leasehold land and buildings 10 to 50 years become probable and can be reasonably estimated.
Short leasehold land and buildings Length of lease Revenue recognized on long-term contracts in fiscal 2006 was Plant, equipment and vehicles 2 to 20 years $206.5 million fiscal 2005: $138.6 million, fiscal 2004: $123.7 million, all of which related to discontinued operations.
As at December 30, Interest costs attributable to funding the construction of major items 2006, amounts billed but not yet received in respect of long-term of property, plant and equipment are capitalized and amortized over contracts amounted to $38.4 million December 31, 2005: the estimated useful life of the asset concerned.
Interest capitalized is $37.1 million, including customer retentions of $6.7 million determined using the average interest rate on outstanding borrowings.
In fiscal 2006 interest costs of $4.7 million were capitalized fiscal 2005: $13.8 million, fiscal 2004: $11.7 million.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis using the effective interest method.
K. Goodwill Business combinations are accounted for in accordance with SFAS141 F. Research and development Business Combinations.
Research and development expenditure is charged to income in the period in which it is incurred.
Research and development expense Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and associates was $96.3 million in fiscal 2006, $84.8 million in fiscal 2005 and and represents any excess of the cost of the acquired entity over $93.7 million in fiscal 2004. the Companys interest in the fair value of the entitys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities determined at the date of G. Cash and cash equivalents acquisition.
Goodwill is not amortized but is tested at least annually for Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits available impairment and carried at cost less any recognized impairment losses.
on demand and other short-term, highly liquid investments with maturities on acquisition of 90 days or less.
L. Other intangible assets Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortization and H. Restricted cash any recognized impairment losses.
All intangible assets recognized by Restricted cash comprises cash balances pledged or advanced as the Company are considered to have finite useful lives.
collateral in the ordinary course of business.
Annual Report 2006 107 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued O.
Summary of significant accounting policies The Company uses derivative financial instruments, principally foreign continued currency swaps, forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps, to reduce its exposure to exchange rate and interest rate i Assets acquired in business combinations movements.
The Company does not hold or issue derivatives for An intangible resource acquired in a business combination is recognized speculative or trading purposes.
as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or other legal rights.
An acquired intangible Derivative financial instruments are recognized as assets and liabilities asset is amortized on a straight-line basis so as to charge its cost, which measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
Changes in represents its fair value at the date of acquisition, to expense over its their fair values are recognized in income and this is likely to cause expected useful life.
Acquired intangible assets mainly comprise volatility in situations where the carrying amount of the hedged item patents and technology, customer relationships and intellectual is either not adjusted to reflect fair value changes arising from the property.
The expected useful lives of these assets are in the range 2 hedged risk or is so adjusted but that adjustment is not recognized in to 15 years and the weighted average expected useful life is 11 years.
Provided the conditions specified by SFAS133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities are met, hedge ii Computer software accounting is used to mitigate this volatility.
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant and equipment is recognized separately as an intangible asset.
Non-integral Prior to fiscal 2005, the Company chose not to apply the hedge computer software is amortized on a straight-line basis so as to charge accounting provisions of SFAS133.
During fiscal 2005, management its cost to expense over its expected useful life.
The expected useful reviewed its policy towards hedge accounting and decided to use lives of non-integral computer software are in the range 3 to 5 years.
hedge accounting in certain circumstances.
With effect from fiscal 2005, the Company does not generally apply hedge accounting to M. Impairment of long-lived assets transactional foreign currency hedging relationships, such as hedges i Long-lived assets other than goodwill of forecast or committed transactions.
It does, however, apply hedge Long-lived assets to be held and used, including intangible assets, are accounting to translational foreign currency hedging relationships and reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the to hedges of its interest rate exposures where it is permissible to do so carrying amount of the asset or asset group may not be recoverable.
When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging The carrying value of a long-lived asset or asset group is considered to relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, a cash flow hedge or, in be impaired when the undiscounted expected future cash flows from the case of a hedge of the Companys net investment in a foreign the asset or asset group are less than its carrying amount.
In that event, operation, a net investment hedge.
an impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset or asset group exceeds its fair value.
Fair value is determined Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the based on quoted market prices, where available, or is estimated as the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability is adjusted by the present value of the expected future cash flows from the asset or increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged risk asset group discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved.
and the resulting gain or loss is recognized in income where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it offsets the change in the fair ii Goodwill value of the hedging instrument.
At the time of the business combination to which it relates, goodwill is allocated to one or more reporting units.
Goodwill is tested at least Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or as annually for impairment.
Firstly, to identify potential impairment of the a net investment hedge, to the extent the hedge is effective, changes goodwill, the fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill is in the fair value of the hedging instrument are recognized in other allocated is compared with its carrying amount.
Fair value is determined comprehensive income rather than in income.
Accumulated gains and based on quoted market prices, where available, or is estimated as the losses recognized in other comprehensive income in relation to a cash present value of the expected future cash flows from the reporting flow hedge are reclassified to income in the same period or periods unit discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved.
during which the hedged transaction affects income.
Accumulated Secondly, if the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including the gains and losses recognized in other comprehensive income in relation goodwill, exceeds its fair value, the goodwill is tested for impairment to a net investment hedge are reclassified to income on disposal of based on its implied fair value.
The implied fair value of goodwill the foreign operation.
represents the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the Other finance income or expense represents fair value gains and losses fair value of its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities arising on financial instruments held by the Company to hedge its at the date of the impairment test.
An impairment loss is recognized translational exposures where either the economic hedging relationship if and to the extent that the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds does not qualify for hedge accounting or to the extent that there is its implied fair value.
deemed to be ineffectiveness in a qualifying hedging relationship.
N. Investments Derivative financial instruments are classified as current assets or Listed investments are classified as available-for-sale and are measured liabilities unless they qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS133 at fair value.
Changes in their fair values are recognized in other and the hedged item is classified as a non-current asset or liability.
comprehensive income except to the extent that they represent an other than temporary impairment in which case the impairment loss Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are recognized is recognized in income.
Accumulated gains and losses recognized in separately as derivative financial instruments when their risks and other comprehensive income are reclassified to income in the event characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and that they are realized on the disposal of the investments.
During fiscal the host contract is not stated at its fair value with changes in its fair 2006, an unrealized gain of $0.5 million was recognized in other value recognized in the income statement.
comprehensive income fiscal 2005: unrealized gain of $1.3 million and a gain of $0.2 million was reclassified to net income on the disposal of available-for-sale investments fiscal 2005: gain of $1.0 million.
108 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP instruments at the date of the plan valuation.
Summary of significant accounting policies credits resulting from plan amendments are recognized on a straightcontinued line basis over the remaining service lives of participating employees.
P. Leases Actuarial gains and losses represent differences between the expected Leases that confer rights and obligations similar to those that attach and actual returns on the plan assets, gains and losses on the plan to owned assets and meet the conditions specified by SFAS13 liabilities and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions.
The Accounting for Leases are classified as capital leases.
All other Company uses the so-called corridor approach whereby to the leases are classified as operating leases.
extent that cumulative actuarial gains and losses exceed 10% of the greater of the market related value of the plan assets and the Assets held under capital leases are included within property, plant and projected benefit obligation at the beginning of the fiscal year, they equipment, initially measured at their fair value or, if lower, the present are amortized to income over the average remaining service lives of value of the minimum lease payments, and a corresponding liability is participating employees.
recognized within capital lease obligations.
Subsequently, the assets are depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or Gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are generally over the term of the lease, if shorter.
On commencement of the lease, recognized in income in the period in which the curtailment or the lease rentals are apportioned between an interest element and a settlement occurs.
capital element so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest As at December 31, 2005, the defined benefit obligation recognized on the outstanding liability.
Thereafter, the interest element is in the Companys statement of financial position comprised the net recognized in expense while the capital element is applied to reduce total for each plan of the fair value of the plan assets if any less the the outstanding liability.
As at December 30, 2006, the cost of assets projected benefit obligation adjusted for the unrecognized net prior held under capital leases was $33.7 million December 31, 2005: service cost or credit, the unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss and $57.5 million and accumulated depreciation recognized in respect of the unrecognized net transition asset or obligation.
An additional those assets was $19.9 million December 31, 2005: $37.8 million.
liability was recognized to the extent that the accumulated benefit Operating lease rentals, and any incentives receivable, are recognized obligation the projected benefit obligation without allowance for in expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
future salary increases exceeded the fair value of the plan assets.
Where an additional minimum liability was recognized, an intangible Q. Post-retirement benefits asset was recognized up to the amount of any unrecognized prior Post-retirement benefits comprise pension benefits provided to service cost and any unrecognized transition obligation.
Any amount employees throughout the world and other benefits, mainly not recognized as an intangible asset was reported in other healthcare, provided to certain employees in North America.
are structured to accord with local conditions and practices in each country and include defined contribution and defined benefit plans.
Effective December 30, 2006, the Company adopted the recognition provisions of SFAS158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit The Company accounts for its post-retirement benefit plans in Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB accordance with SFAS87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, Statements no.
87,88,106, and 132 R. Accordingly, the Companys SFAS 88 Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined statement of financial position as at December 30, 2006 includes Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits and SFAS106, the net total for each plan of the fair value of the plan assets if any Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits other than less the projected benefit obligation.
The net total for all plans in Pensions.
The principle underlying these accounting standards surplus is classified as a long-term asset.
The net total for all plans in is that the cost of providing these benefits is recognized in income deficit is classified as a long-term liability except to the extent of any over the service lives of the participating employees.
excess of the benefits expected to be payable within one year over For defined contribution plans, the cost of providing the benefits the fair value of the plan assets which is classified as a current liability.
represents the Companys contributions to the plans and is recognized As at December 30, 2006, the previously unrecognized net prior in income in the period in which the contributions fall due.
service cost, the unrecognized net actuarial loss and the unrecognized For defined benefit plans, the cost of providing the benefits is net transition obligation were recognized and it became no longer determined based on actuarial valuations of each of the plans that necessary to recognize the minimum pension liability and the related are carried out annually by independent qualified actuaries at a date intangible asset.
The net effect of these adjustments was recognized not more than three months before the Companys fiscal year-end.
as an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income and Plan assets if any are measured at fair value.
Benefit obligations are may be analyzed as follows: measured using the projected unit credit method.
As at December 30, The net periodic benefit cost comprises the service cost, the interest 2006 $ million cost, the expected return on plan assets if any, and the amortization of the prior service cost, the actuarial gain or loss and any asset or Unrecognized net prior service benefit 13.5 obligation that existed on initial application by the Company of SFAS87 Unrecognized net actuarial loss 247.7 and SFAS106.
The service cost represents the present value of benefits Unrecognized net obligation at transition 1.0 attributed to services rendered by employees during the period.
The Minimum pension liability 245.6 interest cost represents the increase in the projected benefit obligation Income tax on the above adjustments 4.6 which is the present value of accrued benefits including assumed Minority interest in the above adjustments 0.5 future salary increases due to the passage of time.
The discount rate Reduction in accumulated other comprehensive loss 5.3 used reflects the rates available on high-quality fixed-income debt Annual Report 2006 109 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued award was granted are modified.
For liability awards, the fair value is 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies determined at the date of grant and is remeasured at each balance continued sheet date until the liability is settled.
Generally, the compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The effect of adopting the recognition provisions of SFAS158 on the Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures Companys statement of financial position may be analysed as follows: during the vesting period due to failure to satisfy service conditions As at December 30,2006 or non-market performance conditions.
Before After application application Prior to adopting SFAS123 R, the Company accounted for stock of SFAS158 Adjustments of SFAS158 based compensation in accordance with APB25 Accounting for $ million $ million $ million Stock Issued to Employees, whereby the compensation expense Current assets: was based on the intrinsic value of the unvested awards determined Prepaid expenses and other assets 103.7 1.4 102.3 at the measurement date.
The measurement date was the first date Long-term assets: on which both the number of shares that were subject to the award Intangible assets 126.5 4.4 122.1 and the option or purchase price, if any, was known.
Adjustments for Deferred income taxes 63.1 4.6 58.5 forfeitures were made to the compensation expense in the period in Pension surpluses 6.5 6.5 which they occurred.
Current liabilities: Pension obligations 5.4 5.4 The Companys financial statements for fiscal 2004 have not been restated to reflect the adoption of SFAS123 R. If the Company had Other post-retirement benefit obligations 16.5 16.5 accounted for the plans using the fair value method prescribed in SFAS123, Accounting for Stock-based Compensation, the Liabilities related to assets held for sale 118.1 3.1 121.2 Companys net income and net income per common share in fiscal 2004 would have been as follows: Long-term liabilities: Pension obligations 198.3 47.3 245.6 Year ended January 1, Other post-retirement benefit 2005 obligations 249.6 82.0 167.6 $ million Minority interests 99.2 0.5 99.7 Reported net income 377.7 Accumulated other comprehensive Deduct: Compensation expense determined loss 240.1 5.3 234.8 under SFAS123, net of tax 6.8 Shareholders equity 3,082.0 5.3 3,087.3 Add back: Compensation expense determined under APB25, net of tax 4.2 SFAS158 does not change the basis of determining the net periodic benefit cost that is recognized in the Companys income statement.
Pro forma net income 375.1 From fiscal 2007 onwards, prior service costs or credits and actuarial Pro forma net income per common share gains or losses that arise in the year but are not recognized as Basic $0.45 components of the net periodic benefit cost will be recognized as a Diluted $0.43 component of other comprehensive income.
Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income in respect of prior service S. Product warranties costs or credits, actuarial gains or losses and the net transition asset Provision is made for warranty claims on various products depending or obligation will be adjusted as they are recognized as components on specific market expectations and the type of product.
These of the net periodic benefit cost.
estimates are established using historical information on the nature, frequency and average cost of warranty claims.
The Company has not yet adopted the measurement provisions of SFAS158.
FIN45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others R. Share-based payments requires that upon issuance of a guarantee, the guarantor must Share-based compensation is provided to employees under the disclose and recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation Companys share option, bonus and other share award schemes.
it assumes under that guarantee.
The Company adopted SFAS123 R Share-based Payment using the The requirements of FIN45 are applicable to the Companys product modified prospective method with an effective date of January 2, 2005, warranty liability and certain guarantees.
The Companys guarantees whereby the standard was applied prospectively to the unvested portion issued subject to the recognition and disclosure requirements of FIN45 of awards that were outstanding as at January 1, 2005 and all awards as at December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 were not material.
granted, modified or settled on or after January 2, 2005.
As at December 30, 2006 the Companys product warranty liability Accordingly, the compensation expense recognized in fiscal 2006 was $11.4 million December 31, 2005: $10.7 million.
and fiscal 2005 was based on the fair value of the awards, where appropriate measured using an option-pricing model.
For equitysettled awards, the fair value is determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently remeasured unless the conditions on which the 110 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP U.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be continued recovered by sale rather than by continuing use in the business.
For this to be the case, the asset must be available for immediate sale in The following table analyses changes in the product warranty liability its present condition, management must be committed to and have during fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005: initiated a plan to sell the asset which, when initiated, was expected Year ended Year ended to result in a completed sale within 12 months.
An extension of the December 30, December 31, 2006 2005 period required to complete the sale does not preclude the asset from $ million $ million being classified as held for sale, provided the delay was for reasons Balance at the beginning of the period 10.7 10.8 beyond the Companys control and management remains committed Provision for warranties issued 6.1 2.2 to its plan to sell the asset.
Payments 5.8 2.1 Assets that are classified as held for sale are measured at the lower Acquisitions 0.2 of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Fair value Foreign currency translation 0.2 0.2 is determined using quoted market prices, where available, or Balance at the end of the period 11.4 10.7 estimated based on the expected future cash flows from the asset Classified as: or asset group concerned discounted at a rate commensurate with Other accrued liabilities 10.8 10.7 the risk involved.
Long-lived assets classified as held for sale are no Liabilities related to assets held for sale 0.6 longer subject to depreciation.
11.4 10.7 Assets that are to be disposed of other than by sale are classified as held and used until the disposal occurs.
Provision is made for the cost of product recalls if management consider it probable that it will be necessary to recall a specific product and the Discontinued operations comprise those operations and cash flows that amount can be reasonably estimated.
can be clearly distinguished, operationally and for financial reporting purposes from the rest of the Companys activities and have either T. Income taxes been disposed of or satisfy the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Current tax is the amount of tax payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or loss for the period.
Taxable profit differs from V. Use of estimates accounting profit because it excludes items of income or expense When applying the Companys accounting policies, management recognized for accounting purposes that are either not taxable or must make assumptions and estimates concerning the future that deductible for tax purposes or are taxable or deductible in other affect the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance periods.
Current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been sheet date, the disclosure of contingencies that existed at the balance enacted at the balance sheet date.
sheet date and the amounts of revenue and expenses recognized during the accounting period.
Estimates and assumptions are The Company recognizes provisions in respect of uncertain tax positions particularly important in accounting for post-retirement benefits, whereby additional current tax may become payable in future periods impairment of long-lived assets, product warranties and income following the audit by the tax authorities of previously filed tax returns.
Estimates and assumptions used are based on factors such Provisions for uncertain tax positions are based upon managements as historical experience, the observance of trends in the industries assessment of the likely outcome of issues associated with assumed in which the Company operates and information available from the permanent differences, interest that may be applied to temporary Companys customers and other outside sources.
Due to the inherent differences, the possible disallowance of tax credits and penalties and uncertainty involved in making assumptions and estimates, actual are classified as current liabilities.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions outcomes could differ from those assumptions and estimates.
are reviewed regularly and are adjusted to reflect events such as the expiry of limitation periods for assessing tax, administrative guidance W. Non-statutory accounts given by the tax authorities and court decisions.
The accompanying financial statements do not comprise statutory accounts within the meaning of section 240 of the Companies Act Deferred tax is tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences 1985.
The Companys statutory accounts for fiscal 2006, that have between the carrying amount of an asset or a liability and its tax base been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax is accounted for Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and on using the liability method, whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities which the Companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have given an are generally recognized for all temporary differences based on enacted unqualified report that did not contain a statement under section tax rates.
Deferred tax assets are reduced through the establishment 237 2 or 3 of the Companies Act 1985, will be filed with the of a valuation allowance at such time as, based on available evidence, Registrar of Companies for England and Wales following the it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized.
Companys Annual General Meeting on June 13, 2007.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in foreign subsidiaries, except where the Company intends, and is able, to reinvest such amounts indefinitely.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Company intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Annual Report 2006 111 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued SFAS157 defines fair value as the price that would be received to 3.
Recently issued accounting sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction pronouncements between market participants independent of the reporting entity.
It requires that fair value should be based on the assumptions A.
Pronouncements adopted during the year market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
The following accounting pronouncements that are relevant to the It establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information Companys operations were adopted during fiscal 2006: used to develop those assumptions.
The fair value hierarchy gives SFAS151 Inventory Costs an amendment of ARB No.
43, the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets and the Chapter 4 lowest priority to unobservable data, for example, the reporting SFAS151 clarifies that, in determining the cost of inventory, fixed entitys own data.
production overheads should be allocated based on the normal The Company will adopt SFAS157 prospectively from the beginning capacity of the production facilities such that abnormal idle facility of fiscal 2008. expenses are expensed and other items such as abnormal freight, handling costs and amounts of wasted materials should be expensed.
SFAS158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension The Company has applied SFAS151 to inventory costs incurred on or and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB after January 1, 2006.
The adoption of SFAS151 had no effect on the Statements no.
87, 88, 106, and 132 R Companys results or financial position.
Management is currently permitted to measure the funded SFAS154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections status of the Companys defined benefit post-retirement plans at a SFAS154 requires retrospective application to the financial statements date not more than 90 days prior to the fiscal year-end date in fiscal of prior periods to reflect changes in accounting principle and redefines 2006, for example, the measurement date was September 30. the term restatement as the revising of previously issued financial SFAS158 will require that the funded status of the plans is measured statements to reflect the correction of an error.
Under SFAS154, a as at the Companys fiscal year-end date.
change of accounting principle is applied as at the beginning of the first period presented as if that principle had always been used.
The The Company will adopt the measurement provisions of SFAS158 cumulative effect of the change is reflected in the carrying value of in fiscal 2008. assets and liabilities as at the beginning of the first period presented SFAS159 The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and and the offsetting adjustments are recorded to opening retained Financial Liabilities: Including an Amendment to FASB earnings.
Except where a change of accounting principle arises Statement No.
115 from the adoption of an accounting pronouncement that requires SFAS159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial otherwise, the Company has adopted SFAS154 in respect of changes instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently of accounting principle and corrections of errors that are made on or required to be measured at fair value.
SFAS159 provides entities with after January 1, 2006.
The adoption of SFAS154 had no effect on the the opportunity to mitigate volatility in reported earnings caused by Companys results or financial position.
measuring related assets and liabilities differently without having to SFAS158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension apply complex hedge accounting provisions.
and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB The Company will adopt SFAS159 prospectively from the beginning Statements no.
87, 88, 106, and 132 R of fiscal 2008, but management does not currently intend to apply SFAS158 contains provisions relating to the recognition and the fair value option to any of the Companys eligible financial assets measurement of assets and liabilities associated with defined and financial liabilities.
benefit pension and other post-retirement plans.
FIN48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes Effective December 30, 2006, the Company adopted the recognition FIN48 clarifies the accounting for uncertain tax positions under provisions of SFAS 158 under which it is required to recognize the SFAS109 Accounting for Income Taxes.
An uncertain tax position overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit post-retirement is a position taken by the Company in a previously filed tax return, plan other than a multi-employer plan as an asset or liability in its or a position that it expects to take in a tax return that has not yet statement of financial position and to recognize changes in that been filed that may be subject to examination by the relevant taxing funded status in the year in which the changes occur through authority.
FIN48 requires that an uncertain tax position shall be comprehensive income.
recognized only when it is more likely than not that the position An analysis of the effect on the Companys financial position of will be sustained on examination and, if recognized, it should be adopting the recognition provisions of SFAS158 is set forth in note 2. measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 per cent likely to be realized on settlement with the relevant B.
Pronouncements not yet adopted taxing authority.
FIN48 also requires the Company to provide certain The following accounting pronouncements are relevant to the disclosures in relation to tax benefits that are not recognized in the Companys operations but were not mandatory for fiscal 2006: financial statements.
SFAS157 Fair Value Measurements The Company will adopt FIN48 prospectively from the beginning of SFAS157 provides guidance on how to measure the fair value of fiscal 2007.
Management has not yet concluded its assessment of the assets and liabilities and introduces additional disclosures concerning effect of the adoption of FIN48 on the Companys financial position.
SFAS157 applies whenever other accounting standards require or permit assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value.
It does not extend the use of fair value measurement in financial statements.
112 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 4.
Acquisitions Fiscal 2006 Industrial & Automotive Fluid Power Goodwill recognized on the acquisition of Eifeler Maschinenbau GmbH in July 2005 was reduced by $5.5 million on completion of the initial accounting for the acquisition, due to further allocation of the purchase consideration to identifiable intangible assets that was partially offset by a reduction in the valuation of acquired inventories.
Other Industrial & Automotive On July 19, 2006, the Company acquired a 60% interest in Gates Winhere LLC, which, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired the business and assets of a water pump manufacturer in China for CNY 68.7 million $8.7 million in cash.
Provisional goodwill of $2.0 million has been recognized on this acquisition, which represents the benefits to the Company of internal resourcing of its water pump components and of enhancing the Companys leadership in cooling systems.
On August 4, 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of 100% of ENZED Fleximak Ltd Fleximak for AED 104.4 million $28.4 million in cash.
Fleximak is a supplier of engineering, fabrication, testing and service operations for flexible fluid transfer products in the Arabian Gulf region.
Provisional goodwill of $16.7 million has been recognized on the acquisition of Fleximak which represents the benefits of the acquisition to the Company from the acceleration of the market penetration of its products in the high growth Arabian Gulf region.
Other businesses were acquired during the year for total consideration of $4.0 million in cash, on which provisional goodwill amounted to $3.4 million.
Goodwill recognized on the acquisition of L. E. Technologies in March 2005 was reduced by $3.2 million on completion of the initial accounting for the acquisition, due to further allocation of the purchase consideration to identifiable intangible assets.
Building Products Air Systems Components On March 1, 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of 100% of Selkirk Americas L. P. Selkirk for $128.8 million in cash.
Selkirk is a manufacturer of chimney, venting and air distribution products for commercial and residential applications.
Selkirk is headquartered in the US and has manufacturing facilities in the US, Canada and Mexico.
Goodwill of $68.5 million has been recognized in respect of Selkirk which is attributable to the benefits the Company will derive from its established presence in the Canadian market and manufacturing synergies in Mexico.
On October 11, 2006, the Company acquired 100% of Eastern Sheet Metal ESM for $14.1 million in cash.
ESM is a manufacturer of commercial heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems with plants in the US, and will be integrated into the existing Ruskin business.
Provisional goodwill of $8.2 million has been recognized which is attributable to the additional manufacturing and distribution capabilities across the US secured by the acquisition.
On October 26, 2006, the Company purchased 100% of Heat-Fab Inc, a US based manufacturer of high efficiency residential and commercial venting systems, for $16.5 million.
Provisional goodwill of $11.5 million has been recognized on this acquisition, representing the improved position achieved from its innovative range of products.
Goodwill recognized on the acquisition of NRG Industries Inc. in September 2005 was reduced by $5.4 million on completion of the initial accounting for the acquisition, principally due to further allocation of the purchase consideration to identifiable intangible assets and finalization of the valuation of acquired property, plant and equipment.
Fiscal 2005 Industrial & Automotive Power Transmission Additional goodwill of $1.8 million was recognized on the acquisition of the businesses of Mectrol Corporation in December 2004 following completion of the initial accounting for the acquisition.
Fluid Power On July 1, 2005, the Company acquired Eifeler Maschinenbau GmbH EMB, a manufacturer of high-performance hydraulic tube fittings, adapters and accessories, for cash consideration, including costs, of 36.5 million $43.6 million.
Provisional goodwill of $19.7 million arising on the acquisition was capitalized which is attributable to the value of EMBs assembled workforce and its well established distribution network within Europe and Asia.
In addition, there is opportunity for significant synergies from the sale of the Groups existing products through EMBs distribution network and from the ability to offer a broader range of product to the Companys existing customer base.
Other Industrial & Automotive On March 18, 2005, the Company acquired L. E. Technologies, a recreational vehicle frame manufacturer, for cash consideration, including costs, of $80.0 million.
Goodwill of $50.6 million arising on the acquisition was capitalized which reflects that the acquisition provides the Company with an extended product range, enables Dexter Axle Company Inc. to pre-integrate its axles to vehicle frames and gives the opportunity for a number of synergies.
Annual Report 2006 113 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
Acquisitions continued Building Products Air Systems Components On January 27, 2005, the Company acquired Milcor Inc. a multi-brand manufacturer of building products, for cash consideration, including costs, of $42.9 million.
Goodwill of $26.6 million arising on the acquisition was capitalized which reflects the value of the enhancement of the Companys position in the residential grilles, registers and diffusers market as a result of the acquisition, the strengthening of the Companys ability to secure sales representation in several key markets and the provision of growth opportunities in the commercial products portion of the market.
In addition, the acquisition provides immediate access to a Chinese manufacturing source and an opportunity for significant synergies.
On September 23, 2005, the Company acquired NRG Industries Inc. a multi-brand manufacturer of commercial building accessories, for cash consideration, including costs, of $25.1 million.
Provisional goodwill of $12.7 million arising on the acquisition was capitalized which reflects that the acquisition gave the Company access to fully developed products that could be marketed more broadly through Ruskin Company and Air Systems Components channels.
In addition, the acquisition increased our presence in significant markets as well as providing opportunity for a number of manufacturing synergies.
Fiscal 2004 Industrial & Automotive Power Transmission On December 1, 2004, the Company acquired the polyurethane power transmission and motion control belt business, assets and liabilities of Mectrol Corporation for a provisional cash consideration, including costs, of $46.0 million.
Pending finalization of the initial accounting for the acquisition, goodwill of $35.5 million was capitalized in fiscal 2004 reflecting the new technology that the acquisition brought to the Companys power transmission business and its extension of the Companys product and customer base.
Additional goodwill of $1.8 million was recognized in fiscal 2005.
A summary of the purchase price allocation in respect of acquisitions in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 is set out below: Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Cash and cash equivalents 4.7 3.0 Other current assets 58.2 57.6 7.0 Property, plant and equipment 29.4 33.4 4.0 Intangible assets: Customer relationships 31.8 4.5 Intellectual property 8.1 Computer software 0.6 2.2 Current liabilities 24.5 21.1 1.5 Long-term liabilities 3.7 Net assets 104.6 79.6 9.5 Goodwill capitalized 96.2 111.4 35.5 Consideration payable wholly in cash 200.8 191.0 45.0 Intangible assets acquired during fiscal 2006 have a weighted average amortization period of 10.2 years.
Acquisitions effected during fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 were neither individually nor in the aggregate material within the meaning of SFAS141 Business Combinations.
114 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 5.
Disposals Fiscal 2006 Discontinued operations During fiscal 2006, a net gain of $10.7 million was recognized on the sale of property, plant and equipment relating to businesses sold in previous years.
Fiscal 2005 Continuing operations Industrial & Automotive Fluid Power On July 4, 2005, the business and assets of the North American curved hose business were sold for a net cash consideration of $10.6 million resulting in a gain on disposal of $1.4 million.
Building Products Air Systems Components On September 16, 2005, the business and assets of Gutter Helmet, part of the Hart & Cooley residential construction business, was sold for $20.4 million resulting in a gain of $16.2 million.
Discontinued operations On January 2, 2005, Unified Industries, Inc. was sold for $1.0 million resulting in a loss of $2.1 million, which was fully provided for in fiscal 2004.
On February 9, 2005, the business and assets of the AirSprings division were sold for a net consideration of $7.9 million resulting in a loss of $7.3 million, of which $5.5 million was provided for in fiscal 2004.
A loss of $1.1 million was recognized in relation to businesses sold in previous years.
A gain of $5.4 million was recognized on the receipt of additional consideration in relation to businesses sold in previous years.
Fiscal 2004 Discontinued operations On November 17, 2004, the sale of the European curved hose business in Nevers, France was completed and the related closure of the European curved hose business in St Just, Spain was also completed during fiscal 2004.
Net sales proceeds after costs totaled $4.2 million, resulting in a gain on disposal of $1.9 million.
During fiscal 2004, a provision of $5.5 million was recognized for the expected loss on the disposal of the AirSprings division and a provision of $2.1 million was recognized for the expected loss on disposal of Unified Industries, Inc. both of which took place in fiscal 2005.
On January 30, 2004 and January 31, 2004 respectively, the business and assets of Hattersley Newman Hender, and Pegler Limited were sold for a combined consideration, before costs, of $23.7 million.
Further net proceeds of $0.9 million were received after related closure costs and disposal of the vacant site.
Overall, the Company recognized a loss on sale of $17.0 million before the release of a provision for impairment of $39.1 million, which was recognized in fiscal 2003.
On June 1, 2004 Mayfran International Inc. was sold for a total consideration of $12.7 million resulting in a loss on disposal of $11.0 million.
Costs of $1.2 million relating to disposals recognized in prior years were incurred during fiscal 2004.
Annual Report 2006 115 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Discontinued operations During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, management approved the disposal of the following non-core businesses: Trico Products Corporation and its related businesses, which constitute the Groups Wiper Systems operating segment: Dearborn Mid-West Conveyor Company Dearborn, a manufacturer of automotive assembly lines and materials handling equipment included within the Other Industrial & Automotive operating segment: and Lasco Fittings Inc. a manufacturer of injection moulded fittings included within the Other Building Products operating segment.
As at December 30, 2006, management had initiated a disposal plan for each of these businesses, were actively seeking prospective buyers and expected the disposals to be completed within 12 months of the initiation of the respective disposal plans.
As discussed in note 30, on February 23, 2007 the Group completed the sale of Lasco Fittings Inc. Each of these businesses has been classified as a discontinued operation in accordance with SFAS144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.
Management initially decided to sell Dearborn during fiscal 2003 and it was classified as a discontinued operation at that time.
However, the Company was unable to secure a sale at an acceptable price and Dearborn was withdrawn from active sale and reclassified as a continuing operation during fiscal 2004.
Dearborn has been returned to the market and management expects that it will now be able to achieve a sale at a price that adequately reflects its recent trading performance and future prospects.
In addition to the results of the businesses that were classified as discontinued during fiscal 2006, income from discontinued operations in fiscal 2005 includes the results of the Companys AirSprings division that was sold in fiscal 2005.
Similarly, income from discontinued operations in fiscal 2004 includes the results of the Companys AirSprings division together with the results of the businesses that were sold in fiscal 2004.
The income loss from discontinued operations may be analyzed as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Net sales 671.2 669.0 753.2 Cost of sales 571.2 549.2 630.2 Gross profit 100.0 119.8 123.0 Selling, general and administrative expenses 81.3 88.4 102.1 Restructuring expenses 11.9 20.3 12.2 Impairment loss 211.0 9.6 Operating loss income 204.2 1.5 8.7 Interest income 0.8 Interest expense 1.8 0.8 0.7 Loss income before taxes, minority interest and equity in net income of associates 206.0 0.7 8.8 Income taxes 3.8 7.6 6.1 Equity in net income of associates 0.5 Loss income from discontinued operations 202.2 6.9 3.2 During fiscal 2006, the Company recognized an impairment loss of $211.0 million on assets classified as held for sale, of which $167.0 million related to goodwill and $44.0 million related to property, plant and equipment.
During fiscal 2005, the Company recognized an impairment loss of $9.6 million on property classified as held for sale following the decision to close the Wiper Systems plant in Pontypool, Wales.
116 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 7.
Background The Company prepares its home country consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union.
SFAS131 Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information requires segment information provided in financial statements to reflect the information that was provided to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources within the Company and assessing the performance of each segment.
The chief operating decision maker bases such decisions on profit from operations before restructuring initiatives and the amortization of intangible assets arising on acquisition adjusted profit from operations determined in accordance with IFRS.
Accordingly, the segment information presented below is prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The Companys businesses are grouped for management reporting purposes according to the nature of their products.
The Groups operating segments are described in note 1.
The information provided to the chief operating decision maker is presented in sterling.
In the tables that follow, sterling amounts have been translated into US dollars.
Amounts for fiscal 2006 have been translated at the average exchange rate for the period of $1.8336 fiscal 2005: $1.8156, fiscal 2004: $1.8257.
Amounts as at December 30, 2006 have been translated at the closing exchange rate on that date of $1.9572 December 31, 2005: $1.7168.
Segment analysis by operating segment continuing operations Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Sales Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 1,851.3 1,761.0 1,668.1 Fluid Power 703.7 650.0 591.0 Fluid Systems 430.5 418.1 416.3 Other Industrial & Automotive 981.7 919.4 845.8 3,967.2 3,748.5 3,521.2 Building Products: Air Systems Components 1,070.6 881.3 772.3 Other Building Products 691.5 723.3 673.3 1,762.1 1,604.6 1,445.6 5,729.3 5,353.1 4,966.8 There were no material sales or transfers between segments in any period.
Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Adjusted profit from operations Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 258.2 234.8 250.3 Fluid Power 63.1 66.6 62.3 Fluid Systems 20.2 31.0 43.8 Other Industrial & Automotive 100.1 111.0 86.4 441.6 443.4 442.8 Building Products: Air Systems Components 106.3 90.8 86.9 Other Building Products 47.3 51.9 41.4 153.6 142.7 128.3 Unallocated corporate activities 52.6 45.2 43.1 542.6 540.9 528.0 Restructuring initiatives comprise restructuring expenses and gains and losses recognized on the disposal or exit of businesses.
Annual Report 2006 117 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Segment information continued Adjusted profit from operations includes income from associates as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Associates Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 0.2 0.5 0.4 Fluid Systems 2.6 0.5 0.2 Other Industrial & Automotive 0.4 0.3 2.8 1.0 0.9 Building Products: Other Building Products 0.5 2.8 1.0 1.4 As at As at December 30, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million Operating net assets including goodwill Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 1,051.0 980.8 Fluid Power 304.4 283.8 Fluid Systems 218.8 201.6 Other Industrial & Automotive 317.7 137.9 1,891.9 1,604.1 Building Products: Air Systems Components 629.8 445.7 Other Building Products 136.6 123.6 766.4 569.3 Unallocated corporate activities 21.2 33.0 2,637.1 2,140.4 Discontinued operations 120.3 270.0 2,757.4 2,410.4 118 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 7.
Segment information continued Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Depreciation and amortization Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 93.3 87.0 75.9 Fluid Power 29.2 23.8 23.2 Fluid Systems 27.1 26.7 25.9 Other Industrial & Automotive 19.1 17.4 18.8 168.7 154.9 143.8 Building Products: Air Systems Components 29.9 25.4 26.7 Other Building Products 17.4 17.2 19.0 47.3 42.6 45.7 Unallocated corporate assets 0.9 0.9 0.7 216.9 198.4 190.2 Discontinued operations 14.1 17.8 21.4 231.0 216.2 211.6 Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Expenditures for additions to long-lived assets Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 98.1 123.4 156.0 Fluid Power 26.8 37.2 42.0 Fluid Systems 33.2 28.5 28.1 Other Industrial & Automotive 17.8 16.0 21.5 175.9 205.1 247.6 Building Products: Air Systems Components 24.5 23.4 14.4 Other Building Products 21.5 19.8 15.9 46.0 43.2 30.3 Unallocated corporate assets 0.9 0.7 222.8 248.3 278.6 Discontinued operations 9.2 12.0 9.3 232.0 260.3 287.9 Annual Report 2006 119 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Segment information continued C. Reconciliation of segment information to US GAAP Reconciliations of the Companys sales, adjusted profit from operations and operating net assets including goodwill, determined in accordance with IFRS analyzed by segment to the equivalent amounts determined in accordance with US GAAP are presented below.
Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 Note $ million $ million $ million Sales IFRS 5,729.3 5,353.1 4,966.8 Reclassification: Discontinued operations i a 310.6 244.2 278.8 Net sales US GAAP 5,418.7 5,108.9 4,688.0 Adjusted profit from operations IFRS 542.6 540.9 528.0 Restructuring expenses 23.8 7.6 23.0 Gain on disposals and on the exit of businesses 5.7 15.4 4.6 Amortization of intangible assets arising on acquisition 5.0 0.4 Profit from operations IFRS 519.5 548.3 509.6 Reclassifications: Income from discontinued operations i a 20.0 16.7 4.7 Gain loss on disposal of continuing operations i b 6.1 3.6 1.1 Equity in net income of associates i c 2.7 1.2 1.5 28.8 14.3 5.1 Accounting differences: Acquired intangibles amortization iii 5.0 5.1 5.3 Impairment of acquired intangibles iii 3.1 Product development costs iv 0.6 0.7 Restructuring expenses v 0.7 0.9 0.9 Capitalized interest vi 7.4 4.0 3.3 Inventory vii 5.5 7.4 1.3 Post-retirement benefits viii 28.1 29.8 39.9 Share-based compensation ix 1.1 2.5 4.0 51.5 50.4 46.7 Operating income from continuing operations US GAAP 439.2 483.6 457.8 Interest income 12.4 10.4 11.5 Interest expense 60.5 34.0 34.2 Other income net 102.7 65.2 44.0 Income from continuing operations before taxes, minority interest and equity in net income of associates US GAAP 493.8 394.8 479.1 Depreciation and amortization IFRS 231.0 216.2 211.6 Accounting differences: Acquired intangible assets iii 5.0 5.1 5.3 Capitalized interest vi 8.0 4.2 3.5 Depreciation and amortization US GAAP 244.0 225.5 220.4 Restructuring initiatives comprise restructuring expenses and gains and losses recognized on the disposal or exit of businesses.
120 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 7.
Segment information continued As at As at December 30, December 31, 2006 2005 Note $ million $ million Operating net assets including goodwill IFRS 2,757.4 2,410.4 Reclassifications: Investment in associates i c 13.6 7.6 Available-for-sale investments i d 4.2 3.8 Dividend on preferred shares i e 0.8 3.6 Unamortized transaction costs i f 5.1 5.1 Deferred income tax on inventory i g 2.7 24.8 12.9 Accounting differences: Goodwill net ii 1,161.1 1,323.0 Acquired intangibles net iii 29.2 37.6 Product development costs iv 1.3 0.7 Restructuring expenses v 0.7 Capitalized interest net vi 39.3 41.2 Inventory vii 20.7 14.2 Post-retirement benefits viii 23.7 2.8 Share-based compensation ix 3.1 Assets held for sale x 2.9 1,177.9 1,384.8 Operating net assets including goodwill US GAAP 3,960.1 3,808.1 Operating net assets including goodwill under US GAAP comprise: Current assets excluding cash and taxes 1,980.1 1,769.6 Long-term assets excluding taxes 3,339.9 3,459.8 Current liabilities excluding debt and taxes 890.2 838.3 Long-term liabilities excluding debt and taxes 462.9 558.8 3,966.9 3,832.3 Less: Fair value of derivatives hedging translational exposures 6.8 24.2 Operating net assets including goodwill US GAAP 3,960.1 3,808.1 An explanation of the significant differences between US GAAP and IFRS that affect the Companys reported sales, operating income and operating net assets is presented below.
i Classification differences a Income from discontinued operations Under US GAAP and IFRS, net income from discontinued operations is shown as a separate line item below net income from continuing operations.
Although there is commonality of presentation, differences in the amounts included within sales and operating income from continuing operations arise from the definition of a discontinued operation.
Under US GAAP, a discontinued operation is any component of an entity that has identifiable operations and cash flows and has been sold or is classified as held for sale at the balance sheet date.
Under IFRS, a discontinued operation is an operation that has been sold or is classified as held for sale at the balance sheet date, and itself represents, or its sale is part of a single plan to dispose of, a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
Accordingly, more operations are likely to be classified as discontinued under US GAAP than under IFRS.
Discontinued operations under IFRS represent Trico Products Corporation and its related businesses, which constitute the Companys Wiper Systems operating segment, and, in fiscal 2005, included additional losses arising on the disposal of part of the Companys former Professional, Garden and Leisure operating segment in October 2000 and additional gains arising on the disposal of the Companys former Valves, Taps & Mixers businesses.
Discontinued operations under US GAAP are described in note 6.
A reclassification adjustment is made to profit from operations under IFRS to exclude the results of operations that are classified as continuing under IFRS but are classified as discontinued under US GAAP.
b Gain loss on disposal of continuing operations A reclassification adjustment is made to profit from operations under IFRS to exclude the gain or loss on disposal of operations that are classified as continuing under IFRS but are classified as discontinued under US GAAP.
Annual Report 2006 121 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Segment information continued c Associates Under US GAAP, operating income does not include any amounts in respect of the Companys associates.
Under IFRS, operating income includes the Companys share of the net income of its associates.
Under US GAAP, the Companys investments in associates accounted for using the equity method are included in operating assets but they are not so included under IFRS.
d Available-for-sale investments Under US GAAP, available-for-sale investments are included in operating assets but they are not so included under IFRS.
e Dividends on preferred shares Under US GAAP, accrued dividends on preferred shares are included in operating net assets.
Under IFRS, from January 2, 2005 onwards, accrued dividends on preferred shares are included in net debt and are therefore excluded from operating net assets.
f Unamortized transaction costs Under US GAAP, unamortized transaction costs in relation to borrowings are classified as a prepaid expense and are therefore included in net operating assets.
Under IFRS, unamortized transaction costs are recognized as a deduction in arriving at the carrying amount of the borrowings to which they relate and are therefore excluded from net operating assets.
g Deferred income tax on inventory Under US GAAP, tax paid or payable on unrealized gains on intragroup transfers of inventory is deferred as a prepaid expense until the inventory is sold to an unrelated third party and no deferred tax is recognized.
Under IFRS, income tax payable on temporary differences arising from intragroup transfers of inventory is recognized as a deferred tax liability.
ii Goodwill Under both US GAAP and IFRS, goodwill is not amortized but is tested at least annually for impairment.
However, a significant difference exists in the carrying value of goodwill due largely to historical differences in the initial measurement and subsequent accounting for goodwill arising on past acquisitions.
Under IFRS, the Company elected not to apply IFRS3 Business Combinations to business combinations that occurred before January 4, 2004.
As a result, the Company recognized goodwill amounting to $387.9 million as at January 3, 2004, which represented the carrying value of goodwill recognized under UK GAAP on acquisitions completed on or after May 3, 1998.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed before May 3, 1998 amounting to $1,888.2 million was written off to reserves under UK GAAP and was not reinstated on adoption of IFRS.
Under US GAAP, the carrying value of goodwill as at January 3, 2004 was $1,706.7 million.
iii Acquired intangible assets Under both IFRS and US GAAP, intangible resources acquired in business combinations that occurred on or after January 4, 2004 are recognized as intangible assets if they are separable from the acquired business or arise from contractual or legal rights.
However, a significant difference exists in the carrying value of acquired intangible assets due largely to the differing treatment of intangible resources acquired in past acquisitions.
As a consequence of the decision not to apply IFRS3 Business Combinations to business combinations that occurred before January 4, 2004, intangible resources acquired in those business combinations are not recognized as intangible assets under IFRS.
Under US GAAP, the carrying value of acquired intangible assets as at January 3, 2004 was $40.9 million.
Acquired intangible assets are amortized under both US GAAP and IFRS, but the amortization charge under IFRS is lower than under US GAAP due to the lower carrying amount of these assets under IFRS.
iv Product development costs Under US GAAP, product development costs are charged to income in the period in which they are incurred.
Under IFRS, certain product development costs are capitalized when the conditions specified by IAS38 Intangible Assets are met.
Capitalized development costs are amortized to the income statement over the expected life of the resulting product.
122 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 7.
Segment information continued v Restructuring expenses Under US GAAP, each component of a restructuring plan must be examined separately to determine when the related expenses may be recognized.
Involuntary employee termination costs may be recognized when management has committed to a detailed termination plan and has communicated the plan to employees.
Other restructuring expenses are generally recognized when they are incurred.
Under IFRS, a restructuring plan is viewed as a whole and the related expenses are recognized when there exists an obligation to carry out the restructuring, which is generally when a detailed formal restructuring plan is announced.
vi Capitalized interest Under US GAAP, interest costs attributable to funding the construction of major items of property, plant and equipment are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the asset concerned.
Under IFRS, the Company does not capitalize any element of its interest costs.
vii Inventory Under US GAAP, inventories are stated at the lower of cost and market value.
Cost is generally determined on a FIFO basis, but a LIFO basis is used to determine the cost of inventory held by certain US subsidiaries.
Under IFRS, use of the LIFO basis is prohibited.
viii Post-retirement benefits Under US GAAP and IFRS, the cost of defined benefit plans is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is recognized over the average expected remaining service lives of participating employees but differences exist, principally with regard to the valuation of plan assets and benefit obligations and the methods of recognizing gains and losses.
Under US GAAP, actuarial gains and losses are amortized over the remaining service lives of participating employees to the extent that, measured at the beginning of each fiscal year, they exceed 10% of the greater of the market related value of the plan assets or the projected benefit obligation.
Under IFRS, actuarial gains and losses are recognized in equity in the period in which they occur and are not subsequently transferred to the income statement.
Classification of the net periodic benefit cost within the income statement also differs between US GAAP and IFRS.
Under US GAAP, the net periodic pension cost is charged wholly to operating income.
Under IFRS, the service cost, past service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are included within operating income, but the interest cost is included in interest expense and the expected return on plan assets is included in interest income.
Under IFRS, the funded status of each plan is recognized in the Companys statement of financial position except that prior service costs or credits are recognized over their respective vesting periods and, where a plan is in surplus, the asset recognized is limited to the amount of any unrecognized prior service costs and the present value of any amount which the Company expects to recover by way of refunds or a reduction in future contributions.
Under US GAAP, the amounts recognized in the Companys statement of financial position as at December 30, 2006 and as at December 31, 2005 differ substantially because the Company adopted the recognition provisions of SFAS158 effective December 30, 2006.
SFAS158 cannot be applied retrospectively.
As at December 31, 2005 the Companys statement of financial position reflected the net total for each plan of the fair value of the plan assets if any less the projected benefit obligation adjusted for the unrecognized net prior service cost or credit, the unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss and the unrecognized net transition asset or obligation.
An additional liability was recognized to the extent that the accumulated benefit obligation the projected benefit obligation without allowance for future salary increases exceeded the fair value of the plan assets.
Where an additional minimum liability was recognized, an intangible asset was recognized up to the amount of any unrecognized prior service cost and any unrecognized transition obligation.
Any amount not recognized as an intangible asset was reported in other comprehensive income.
As at December 30, 2006, the Companys statement of financial position reflects the funded status of each plan.
Consequently, while under IFRS the Company measures plan assets and benefit obligations as at its fiscal year-end date, under US GAAP the Company continues to measure plan assets and benefit obligations at a date not more than 90 days prior to the fiscal year-end date in fiscal 2006, for example, the measurement date was September 30.
Annual Report 2006 123 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Segment information continued ix Share-based compensation Under US GAAP, the Company accounts for share-based compensation plans using the fair value method prescribed by SFAS123 R Sharebased Payment.
SFAS123 R was applied prospectively to the unvested portion of awards that were outstanding as at January 1, 2005 and all awards granted, modified or settled on or after January 2, 2005.
Prior to January 2, 2005, the Company accounted for its share based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB25 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.
Under IFRS, the Company accounts for share-based compensation plans using the fair value method prescribed by IFRS2 Share-based Payment.
IFRS2 was applied retrospectively to all awards that were outstanding but had not vested as at January 1, 2005, except those equity-settled awards that were granted on or before November 7, 2002.
While differences between the compensation expense recognized under IFRS and US GAAP will exist in the medium-term, it is expected that they will be eliminated in future years when the outstanding unvested equity-settled awards granted on or before November 7, 2002 either vest or are forfeited due to failure to meet the service or non-market performance conditions that apply to them.
Under US GAAP, awards granted under certain of the Companys share option plans are classified as liabilities until such time as they vest when they are reclassified as equity-settled.
Under IFRS, all awards granted under the Companys share option plans are classified as equity-settled.
x Assets held for sale Under US GAAP, the carrying amount before testing for impairment of the long-lived assets other than goodwill of the Wiper Systems operating segment as at December 30, 2006 was higher than that of those businesses determined in accordance with IFRS.
An impairment loss was recognized on those assets under IFRS which was increased under US GAAP to the extent of their additional carrying amount before recognition of the impairment loss.
D. Selected geographic information US GAAP Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Net sales by geographic origin US 3,391.3 3,291.6 2,937.9 UK 256.7 237.9 255.0 Rest of Europe 641.2 566.8 539.5 Rest of the World 1,129.5 1,012.6 955.6 5,418.7 5,108.9 4,688.0 Long-lived assets by geographic location US 614.6 729.0 718.5 UK 113.7 98.5 130.5 Rest of Europe 180.0 160.4 165.3 Rest of the World 488.9 478.8 438.7 1,397.2 1,466.7 1,453.0 E. Information about major customers The Company has a significant concentration of customers in the US, who accounted for 66.9% 2005: 68.9%, 2004: 67.5% of the Companys sales during the period, and in the industrial and automotive industry, which accounted for 71.1% 2005: 72.2%, 2004: 73.4% of the Companys sales during the period.
No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Companys sales, and there were no significant accounts receivables from a single customer.
The Company reviews a customers credit history before extending credit.
The Company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon factors surrounding the credit risk of specific customers, historical trends, and other information.
124 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 8.
Analysis of income tax expense Income tax expense benefit by location of taxing jurisdiction is as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Current tax UK 11.7 32.0 29.9 US federal taxes 40.8 32.6 37.4 state taxes 6.8 16.5 4.9 Canada 15.4 17.5 14.4 Mexico 7.9 4.9 5.3 Japan 10.4 11.0 9.9 Other foreign taxes 23.5 27.4 21.7 Total current tax 34.9 12.7 63.7 Deferred tax UK 5.0 20.6 6.9 US federal taxes 14.2 46.1 30.3 state taxes 1.6 3.9 4.4 Canada 3.2 12.5 5.7 Mexico 1.4 1.7 0.2 Japan 0.3 0.1 3.7 Other foreign taxes 7.6 0.6 2.5 Total deferred tax 4.3 57.1 36.9 Total income tax expense 30.6 69.8 100.6 Continuing operations 63.3 61.3 101.3 Discontinued operations 32.7 8.5 0.7 30.6 69.8 100.6 Fiscal 2006 In fiscal 2006, there was a release of provisions for uncertain tax positions of $92.7 million as a result of tax planning, the clarification of tax legislation, the performance of certain studies and the change of views on the likely outcome of challenges by various tax authorities.
Fiscal 2005 Under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 AJCA in the US, the Company had the opportunity to benefit from a one-time repatriation of cash to the US at a reduced tax rate.
During fiscal 2005, the Company repatriated $75.9 million to the US under the AJCA on which it incurred a tax charge of $3.8 million.
In fiscal 2005, there was a release of provisions for uncertain tax positions of $106.6 million following the successful resolution of a tax issue in the US, the expiry of time during which tax audits could be performed in certain tax jurisdictions and the change of views on the likely outcome of challenges by various tax authorities.
Fiscal 2004 In fiscal 2004, the Company reached agreement with the US Internal Revenue Service with respect to the examination of the tax returns of one of its subsidiaries for fiscal years 1999, 2000 and 2001.
As a result, tax provisions of $27.4 million were no longer considered necessary and were released to the income statement in fiscal 2004.
Annual Report 2006 125 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 8.
Income taxes continued B. Reconciliation of income tax expense to income tax charged at statutory tax rate The income tax expense for the period differs from the product of income from continuing operations before taxes, minority interest and equity in net income of associates and the rate of UK corporation tax as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Income from continuing operations before taxes, minority interest and equity in net income of associates 493.8 394.8 479.1 UK corporation tax at 30% fiscal 2005: 30%, fiscal 2004: 30% 148.1 118.4 143.7 Tax effect of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 8.7 14.0 9.1 Deductible expenses not recognized for accounting purposes 5.2 0.8 25.9 Tax on capital gain not recognized on consolidation 49.8 Deemed dividends for tax purposes 13.0 16.8 6.1 Permanent differences due to currency translation 16.0 7.5 439.9 Other permanent differences 0.6 9.5 2.7 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 7.3 14.8 5.0 Release of provisions for uncertain tax positions 92.7 106.6 27.4 Effect of different tax rates on overseas profits 20.5 19.9 1.1 Foreign and other tax credits 8.8 25.5 1.9 Tax losses in the period not recognized 19.8 40.2 438.3 Utilization of previously unrecognized tax losses 51.8 84.2 6.9 Other changes in unrecognized deferred tax assets 11.0 21.5 2.7 Income tax expense 63.3 61.3 101.3 C. Analysis of deferred tax assets liabilities Deferred tax assets liabilities recognized by the Company were as follows: As at As at December 30, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million Deferred tax assets Net operating losses 516.5 615.7 Pension and other post-retirement obligations 142.1 159.6 Capital loss carry forwards 166.5 147.1 Accrued expenses-and other 43.2 45.6 Compensation 29.6 38.8 Tax credits 18.7 29.5 Accounts receivable 6.3 7.0 Net investment in subsidiaries 43.7 Other 10.4 966.6 1,053.7 Valuation allowance 734.9 791.4 Total deferred tax assets 231.7 262.3 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment 74.8 109.9 Inventories 45.3 39.7 Intangible assets 47.0 35.3 Other 1.4 12.0 Total deferred tax liabilities 168.5 196.9 Net deferred tax assets 63.2 65.4 126 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 8.
Income taxes continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities presented in the Companys statement of financial position are as follows: As at As at December 30, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million Current assets Deferred income taxes 53.4 48.5 Assets held for sale 2.8 56.2 48.5 Non-current assets 58.5 104.9 Total assets 114.7 153.4 Current liabilities Deferred income taxes 8.0 13.2 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 0.1 8.1 13.2 Non-current liabilities 43.4 74.8 Total liabilities 51.5 88.0 Net deferred tax assets 63.2 65.4 As at December 30, 2006, the Company had operating tax losses amounting to $1,774.1 million of which $1,679.2 million can be carried forward indefinitely and $95.0 million have expiry dates between 2007 and 2019.
As at December 30, 2006, the Company recognized a deferred tax asset of $24.6 million in respect of these losses, net of a valuation allowance of $491.9 million.
As at December 30, 2006, the Company had capital tax losses amounting to $554.8 million all of which can be carried forward indefinitely.
As at December 30, 2006, the Company recognized a deferred tax asset of $1.4 million in respect of these losses, net of a valuation allowance of $165.1 million.
As at December 30, 2006, the Company had foreign tax credits amounting to $8.5 million, of which $4.0 million can be carried forward indefinitely and $4.5 million expires in 2015.
As at December 30, 2006, the Company recognized a deferred tax asset of $3.7 million in respect of these tax credits, net of a valuation allowance of $4.8 million.
As at December 30, 2006, the Company had other tax credits amounting to $10.2 million which have expiry dates between 2014 and 2016.
As at December 30, 2006, the Company recognized a deferred tax asset of $7.0 million in respect of these tax credits, net of a valuation allowance of $3.2 million.
As at December 30, 2006, no income taxes have been provided on the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries amounted to $3,937.1 million December 31, 2005: $3,345.8 million due to managements ability and intent to reinvest such amounts indefinitely.
A determination of the amount of the unrecognized deferred tax liability has not been made because it is not practical to do so.
A portion of these earnings can be distributed without incurring additional taxes.
Income per common share Basic income per common share represents net income divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the fiscal year.
Diluted income per common share considers the effect of potential common shares, unless the inclusion of the potential common shares would have an anti-dilutive effect.
Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 Number Number Number 000 000 000 Weighted average shares used to calculate basic earnings per share 838,894 771,427 770,717 Assumed conversion of convertible preferred shares 39,759 102,375 102,651 Assumed exercise of share options 4,154 2,339 3,931 Adjusted weighted average shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share 882,807 876,141 877,299 Share options numbering 1,232,593 fiscal 2005: 1,883,396, fiscal 2004: 8,226,950 with an exercise price higher than the average market price during the fiscal year, were excluded in computing diluted earnings per share since the impact would be anti-dilutive.
For the purposes of diluted earnings per share the income is increased for the dividend on the preferred shares of $9.9 million fiscal 2005: $29.1 million: fiscal 2004: $28.5 million.
Annual Report 2006 127 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Inventories As at As at December 30, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million Raw materials and supplies 252.4 253.3 Work in progress 89.9 106.4 Finished goods and goods held for resale 428.5 403.8 Total inventories current cost 770.8 763.5 Less excess of FIFO over LIFO cost 17.4 14.2 753.4 749.3 11.
Assets held for sale Assets held for sale as at December 30, 2006 principally comprise the assets of the Companys discontinued operations which are described in note 6.
Assets held for sale also include vacant properties no longer required by the Company for manufacturing operations.
Assets held for sale and related liabilities were as follows: As at As at December 30, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million Assets held for sale Accounts receivable 133.3 Inventories 79.6 Prepaid expenses and other assets 10.0 Property, plant and equipment 66.6 23.0 Goodwill 13.3 Intangible assets 0.2 Deferred income taxes 2.8 305.8 23.0 Liabilities related to assets held for sale Accounts payable 77.4 Accruals and deferred income 12.3 Other current liabilities 12.3 Pension obligations 15.3 Other post-retirement benefit obligations 3.1 Other long-term liabilities 0.7 Deferred income taxes 0.1 121.2 184.6 23.0 128 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 11.
Assets held for sale continued Assets held for sale were held by the following operating segments: As at As at December 30, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 4.1 2.7 Fluid Power Fluid Systems 0.1 Other Industrial & Automotive 4.1 2.8 Building Products: Air Systems Components 5.1 Other Building Products 1.3 6.4 Unallocated corporate assets 6.0 Discontinued operations 180.5 7.8 184.6 23.0 12.
Property, plant and equipment As at As at December 30, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million Cost Freehold land 577.2 610.0 Long leasehold land and buildings 4.9 3.9 Short leasehold land and buildings 15.7 18.2 Plant, equipment and vehicles 2,218.1 2,204.4 Assets under construction 87.9 167.1 2,903.8 3,003.6 Less: Accumulated depreciation 1,506.6 1,536.9 Total 1,397.2 1,466.7 Freehold land amounting to $65.6 million December 31, 2005: $69.4 million is not depreciated.
Depreciation expense was $214.7 million for fiscal 2006 fiscal 2005: $216.1 million: fiscal 2004: $206.0 million.
Annual Report 2006 129 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 13.
Investments in associates Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million Carrying amount At the beginning of the period 7.6 7.1 Equity in net income of associates 2.7 1.2 Dividends received from associates 0.5 0.5 9.8 7.8 Additions 3.5 Foreign currency translation 0.3 0.2 At the end of the period 13.6 7.6 Summarized financial information in respect of the Companys associates is set out below.
As at As at December 30, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million Total assets 81.4 25.9 Total liabilities 48.3 10.6 Net assets 33.1 15.3 The segment analysis of the Companys investments in associates is as follows: Investments in associates As at As at December 30, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million By business segment Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 6.8 3.3 Fluid Systems 6.0 3.6 Other Industrial & Automotive 0.8 0.7 13.6 7.6 Building Products: Other Building Products 13.6 7.6 130 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 14.
Goodwill As at Transfer to Foreign As at December 31, Acquisition of assets held currency December 30, 2005 subsidiaries for sale translation 2006 $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Year ended December 30, 2006 Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 685.7 0.6 686.3 Fluid Power 106.6 5.5 2.1 103.2 Wiper Systems 167.0 167.0 Fluid Systems 257.3 257.3 Other Industrial & Automotive 180.8 18.9 0.2 199.9 1,397.4 13.4 167.0 2.9 1,246.7 Building Products: Air Systems Components 371.9 82.8 1.4 456.1 Other Building Products 95.6 13.3 82.3 467.5 82.8 13.3 1.4 538.4 1,864.9 96.2 180.3 4.3 1,785.1 As at Foreign As at January 1, Acquisition of currency December 31, 2005 subsidiaries translation 2005 $ million $ million $ million $ million Year ended December 31, 2005 Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 681.0 1.8 2.9 685.7 Fluid Power 87.4 19.7 0.5 106.6 Wiper Systems 167.0 167.0 Fluid Systems 257.3 257.3 Other Industrial & Automotive 130.2 50.6 180.8 1,322.9 72.1 2.4 1,397.4 Building Products: Air Systems Components 333.8 39.3 1.2 371.9 Other Building Products 95.6 95.6 429.4 39.3 1.2 467.5 1,752.3 111.4 1.2 1,864.9 Annual Report 2006 131 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Intangible assets As at December 30, 2006 As at December 31, 2005 Accumulated Accumulated Cost amortization Net Cost amortization Net $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Patents and technology 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 Customer relationships 66.4 16.3 50.1 35.3 10.5 24.8 Intellectual property 29.4 9.5 19.9 20.3 3.8 16.5 Non-competition agreement 2.4 1.2 1.2 2.1 2.1 Capitalized software 123.6 72.7 50.9 92.2 61.5 30.7 230.9 108.8 122.1 159.0 84.9 74.1 Pension intangible asset not subject to amortization 6.6 6.6 Total intangible assets 230.9 108.8 122.1 165.6 84.9 80.7 During fiscal 2006, the amortization expense in respect of intangible assets was $29.3 million fiscal 2005: $9.4 million: fiscal 2004: $14.4 million.
Estimated amortization expense for the following five years is as follows: $ million Fiscal year 2007 21.9 2008 20.7 2009 20.7 2010 20.6 2011 8.6 During fiscal 2006, an impairment loss of $3.1 million was recognized within sales, general and administrative expenses in respect of an intellectual property intangible asset held by a business within the Companys Power Transmission operating segment.
Bank overdrafts, bank and other loans As at December 30, 2006 As at December 31, 2005 Current Non-current Current Non-current liabilities liabilities Total liabilities liabilities Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Bank overdrafts 11.2 11.2 17.9 17.9 Bank and other loans Bank loans secured 5.3 5.3 unsecured 51.4 285.4 336.8 38.3 206.4 244.7 Other loans unsecured 9.2 761.0 770.2 8.4 701.5 709.9 Unsecured loan notes 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 61.2 1,046.4 1,107.6 52.5 907.9 960.4 72.4 1,046.4 1,118.8 70.4 907.9 978.3 Borrowings are repayable as follows: As at As at December 30, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million Current liabilities On demand or within one year 72.4 70.4 Non-current liabilities In the fourth year 285.4 In the fifth year 284.5 206.4 After more than five years 476.5 701.5 1,046.4 907.9 1,118.8 978.3 Bank loans Bank loans are principally amounts drawn down under the Companys 400 million multi-currency revolving credit facility.
As at December 30, 2006, $285.4 million December 31, 2005: $205.8 million had been drawn down, including tranches denominated in US dollars totaling $250.0 million December 31, 2005: $175.0 million.
Borrowings under the facility attract interest at floating rates determined by reference to LIBOR and the weighted average rate payable as at December 30, 2006 was 5.7% December 31, 2005: 4.8%.
Secured bank loans as at December 31, 2005 were secured against property, plant and equipment with a carrying value of $0.8 million and accounts receivable with a carrying value of $4.5 million.
132 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 16.
Bank overdrafts, bank and other loans continued Other loans The Company has a Euro Medium Term Note Program under which it may borrow up to a total maximum principal amount of 750 million.
So far, two bonds have been issued under this program: 150 million repayable at par on December 20, 2011 that bears interest at a fixed rate of 8%: and 250 million repayable at par on September 16, 2015 that bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.125%.
The carrying amount of other loans may be analyzed as follows: As at As at December 30, December 31, 2006 2005 $ million $ million Principal amount 782.9 686.7 Accrued interest payable 9.2 8.4 Carrying amount before hedge accounting 792.1 695.1 Fair value hedge adjustment note 17 21.9 14.8 Carrying amount 770.2 709.9 Unsecured loan notes The unsecured loan notes must be repaid, at par, on June 30, 2012.
Until that time, in certain circumstances the note holders have the right to require full or part repayment, at par, half yearly on June 30 and December 31 and for this reason they are classified as current liabilities.
The unsecured loan notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.6%.
Borrowing facilities As at December 30, 2006, the Company had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of $497.5 million December 31, 2005: $480.9 million available under the multi-currency revolving credit facility that expires on August 8, 2010.
Borrowing covenants The Company is subject to covenants, representations and warranties commonly associated with investment grade borrowings in respect of its committed borrowing facilities and borrowings under the Euro Medium Term Note Program.
The Company is subject to two financial covenants in respect of its committed borrowing facilities.
The ratio of net debt to consolidated earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization must not exceed 2.5 times, and the ratio of consolidated operating profit to the consolidated net interest charge must not be less than 3.0 times.
The financial covenants are calculated by applying UK GAAP extant as at December 31, 2002.
Summary The carrying amount of derivative financial instruments held by the Company was as follows: As at December 30, 2006 As at December 31, 2005 Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Translational hedges Currency forwards 4.9 0.4 4.5 0.2 13.9 13.7 Interest rate swaps 2.9 0.6 2.3 37.9 37.9 7.8 1.0 6.8 38.1 13.9 24.2 Transactional hedges Currency forwards and swaps 2.5 0.2 2.3 4.8 1.5 3.3 10.3 1.2 9.1 42.9 15.4 27.5 Classified as: Current 10.3 0.6 9.7 8.9 15.4 6.5 Non-current 0.6 0.6 34.0 34.0 10.3 1.2 9.1 42.9 15.4 27.5 The Company does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
The Company ensures that its portfolio of derivative financial instruments is managed such that there is no significant concentration of credit risk in any one bank or other financial institution.
Annual Report 2006 133 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Currency derivatives As at December 30, 2006, the notional principal amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts that are used to manage the currency profile of the Companys net assets was $752.5 million December 31, 2005: $705.9 million.
These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities and in fiscal 2006 the net fair value gain on these contracts of $79.8 million was recognized in other income fiscal 2005: net loss of $62.7 million recognized in other expense, fiscal 2004: net gain of $22.2 million recognized in other income.
Since fiscal 2005, the Company has drawn-down US dollar denominated borrowings under its multi-currency revolving credit facility.
While these borrowings provide an economic hedge of the translational currency exposures arising on the Companys net investment in certain of its subsidiaries whose functional currency is the US dollar, they do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS133.
In fiscal 2006, the foreign currency translation gain on these borrowings of $25.7 million was recognized in other income fiscal 2005: translation loss of $9.5 million recognized in other expense.
Also in fiscal 2006, a net loss of $1.2 million was recognized within other expense in respect of other currency translation hedges that did not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS133 fiscal 2005: net gain of $1.0 million recognized in other income: fiscal 2004: $nil.
In fiscal 2006, a net fair value loss of $1.6 million was recognized within operating income in respect of currency derivatives that were held to provide an economic hedge of transactional currency exposures but were not designated as hedges for accounting purposes fiscal 2005: net gain of $0.6 million: fiscal 2004: net gain of $2.6 million.
C. Interest rate swaps Interest rate swaps are used to swap borrowings under the Companys Euro Medium Term Note Program from fixed interest rates to floating interest rates.
As at December 30, 2006, the notional principal amount of the contracts outstanding was $782.9 million December 31, 2005: $686.7 million.
During fiscal 2005, the Company designated these contracts as fair value hedges in accordance with SFAS133 and they have subsequently been considered to be effective hedges for accounting purposes.
As at December 30, 2006, the carrying amount of the hedged borrowings was reduced by $21.9 million December 31, 2005: carrying amount increased by $14.8 million to reflect the extent to which the swaps provided an effective hedge against fair value interest rate risk.
Interest rate swaps are also used to restrict the amount of floating rate US dollar debt.
As at December 30, 2006, the notional principal amount of these contracts held was $275 million December 31, 2005: $420 million, including contracts with a notional principal amount of $65 million December 31, 2005: $210 million that commence on the maturity of equivalent contracts that are currently in force.
During fiscal 2006, a net fair value loss of $1.6 million was recognized within other expense in respect of interest rate swaps that did not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS133 fiscal 2005: net gain of $6.0 million recognized in other income, fiscal 2004: net gain of $12.0 million recognized in other income.
The profile of interest rate swaps held by the Company was as follows: Interest rate Payable Receivable Notional principal amount Variable rate million Variable Fixed Variable Fixed index As at December 30, 2006 Maturity date: December 2011 150.0 8.0% 8.0% 6 month LIBOR September 2015 250.0 6.4% 6.1% 3 month LIBOR June 2008 US$65.0 3.8% 5.4% 3 month LIBOR December 2007 US$145.0 4.2% 5.4% 3 month LIBOR December 2009 commences June 2008 US$65.0 4.6% 3 month LIBOR As at December 31, 2005 Maturity date: December 2011 150.0 7.2% 8.0% 6 month LIBOR September 2015 250.0 5.7% 6.1% 3 month LIBOR June 2006 US$145.0 2.8% 4.5% 3 month LIBOR June 2008 US$65.0 3.8% 4.5% 3 month LIBOR December 2007 commences June 2006 US$145.0 4.2% 3 month LIBOR December 2009 commences June 2008 US$65.0 4.6% 3 month LIBOR 134 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 18.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Fair value information is provided below in respect of certain financial assets and liabilities: As at December 30, 2006 As at December 31, 2005 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value $ million $ million $ million $ million Cash and cash equivalents 337.7 337.7 396.4 396.4 Restricted cash 8.0 8.0 9.2 9.2 Borrowings classified as current liabilities 72.4 72.4 70.4 70.4 non-current liabilities 1,046.4 1,079.2 907.9 937.5 Capital lease obligations 18.1 18.1 21.2 21.2 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate derivatives 2.3 2.3 37.9 37.9 Foreign currency derivatives 6.8 6.8 10.4 10.4 Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash largely attract floating interest rates.
Accordingly, their carrying amounts are considered to approximate to fair value.
Borrowings classified as current liabilities mainly comprise overdrafts and loans that attract floating interest rates.
Accordingly, their carrying amount is considered to approximate to fair value.
Borrowings classified as non-current liabilities principally comprise borrowings under the Groups multi-currency revolving credit facility that attract floating interest rates, whose carrying amount is considered to approximate to fair value, and the listed bonds issued under the Groups Euro Medium Term Note Program, whose fair values represent their quoted market prices.
Capital lease obligations attract fixed interest rates that are implicit in the lease rentals and their fair value has been assessed by reference to prevailing market interest rates.
Interest rate derivatives are valued by discounting the applicable cash flows at prevailing market interest rates.
Foreign currency derivatives are valued on a mark to market basis by reference to prevailing currency exchange rates.
Post-retirement benefits The Company has defined benefit and defined contribution plans covering substantially all employees of the Company and its domestic and international subsidiaries.
Benefits under defined benefit plans on a worldwide basis are generally based on years of service and employees compensation during the last years of employment.
In North America, the Company also provides various post-retirement health and life insurance benefits for certain of its employees.
The Company contributes to multi-employer plans for certain collective bargaining US employees.
In addition, various other defined contribution plans are sponsored worldwide.
Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Multi-employer plan expense 8.6 6.3 7.3 Defined contribution plan expense 44.8 42.2 40.7 Accrued liability for multi-employer and defined contribution plans included in other liabilities at the end of the period 14.0 12.8 10.8 Annual Report 2006 135 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Post-retirement benefits continued The components of net periodic benefit cost for defined benefit plans are as follows: UK pension plans Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Service cost 1.9 1.8 3.1 Interest cost 21.0 19.5 19.9 Expected return on plan assets 24.3 23.6 23.8 Amortization of prior service cost 0.4 0.4 0.4 Amortization of transition obligation 0.4 1.3 1.4 Amortization of actuarial loss 4.2 2.1 1.7 Loss gain on curtailments and settlements 0.1 1.7 0.6 Net periodic benefit expense income 2.9 0.6 0.7 Weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs Discount rate 5.00% 5.75% 5.75% Rate of compensation increase 4.00% 4.00% 4.00% Expected return on plan assets 6.54% 7.28% 7.23% Non-UK pension plans Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Service cost 14.0 10.0 9.7 Interest cost 41.5 42.8 43.8 Expected return on plan assets 40.8 35.8 38.2 Amortization of prior service cost 0.5 0.5 0.5 Amortization of transition asset 3.7 0.5 0.5 Amortization of actuarial loss 18.7 17.5 12.1 Loss gain on curtailments and settlements 0.4 0.2 2.8 Special termination benefits 2.5 Net periodic pension expense 38.0 33.2 25.6 Weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs Discount rate 5.34% 5.87% 5.95% Rate of compensation increase 5.40% 5.40% 5.39% Expected return on plan assets 7.93% 7.78% 8.16% The components of net periodic benefit cost for other post-retirement benefits are as follows: Other post-retirement benefits Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Service cost 0.4 0.8 0.8 Interest cost 10.1 12.1 13.7 Amortization of prior service cost 2.8 2.5 1.5 Amortization of actuarial gain 4.1 4.5 Gain on curtailments and settlements 8.0 2.1 Net periodic benefit expense income 3.6 2.1 10.9 Weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs Discount rate 5.44% 6.00% 6.15% Ultimate medical trend rate 4.33% 4.18% 4.50% 136 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 19.
Post-retirement benefits continued Effective December 30, 2006, the Company adopted the recognition provisions of SFAS158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements no.
87, 88, 106, and 132 R. Accordingly, the Companys statement of financial position as at December 30, 2006 reflects the funded status of its defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans.
SFAS158 cannot be applied retrospectively and, therefore, the Companys statement of financial position as at December 31, 2005 has not been restated and does not reflect the funded status of those plans.
An explanation of the Companys basis of accounting for defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans both before and after adoption of the recognition provisions of SFAS158 together with an analysis of the financial effect of adopting those provisions is set forth in note 2.
The Company has not yet adopted the measurement provisions of SFAS158 and continues to use a measurement date three months before the fiscal year end for the majority of its plans.
Changes in the pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations, fair value of plan assets and the amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial position are shown below: Pension benefits Other benefits Year ended December 30, 2006 Year ended December 31, 2005 Year ended Year ended Non-UK Non-UK December 30, December 31, UK plans plans Total UK plans plans Total 2006 2005 $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Benefit obligation Benefit obligation at end of prior year 401.6 799.4 1,201.0 366.4 753.7 1,120.1 195.6 213.8 Service cost 1.9 14.0 15.9 1.8 10.0 11.8 0.4 0.8 Interest cost 21.0 41.5 62.5 19.5 42.8 62.3 10.1 12.1 Plan amendments 0.8 0.8 0.6 0.6 1.3 Actuarial loss gain 6.1 6.5 0.4 75.1 52.2 127.3 2.6 1.0 Acquisitions 19.2 19.2 0.3 Divestitures 1.7 1.7 Curtailments 1.2 1.2 0.2 0.2 Settlements 0.5 1.5 2.0 0.9 0.5 1.4 10.2 Special termination benefits 3.6 3.6 Disbursements and benefits paid 19.5 55.7 75.2 15.7 53.0 68.7 18.8 19.2 Contributions by participants 0.5 0.3 0.8 0.2 0.2 0.4 Foreign currency translation 56.9 2.1 59.0 43.1 2.8 45.9 0.1 0.6 Benefit obligation at end of year 468.0 812.4 1,280.4 401.6 799.4 1,201.0 190.3 195.6 Plan assets Fair value of plan assets at end of prior year 350.8 536.5 887.3 346.6 466.1 812.7 Actual return on plan assets 30.1 43.4 73.5 52.9 50.7 103.6 Acquisitions 19.8 19.8 Divestitures 1.7 1.7 Settlements 0.5 1.7 2.2 0.9 0.9 1.8 Disbursements and benefits paid 19.5 55.7 75.2 15.7 53.0 68.7 18.8 19.2 Company contributions 7.4 53.3 60.7 8.4 73.1 81.5 18.8 19.2 Contributions by participants 0.5 0.3 0.8 0.2 0.2 0.4 Foreign currency translation 50.3 0.1 50.2 39.0 0.3 38.7 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 419.1 595.8 1,014.9 350.8 536.5 887.3 Annual Report 2006 137 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Post-retirement benefits continued Pension benefits Other benefits Year ended December 30, 2006 Year ended December 31, 2005 Year ended Year ended Non-UK Non-UK December 30, December 31, UK plans plans Total UK plans plans Total 2006 2005 $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Funded status: Assets less than benefit obligation 48.9 216.6 265.5 50.8 262.9 313.7 190.3 195.6 Contributions after measurement date 1.6 4.1 5.7 1.4 4.2 5.6 3.1 4.4 Funded status after contributions 47.3 212.5 259.8 49.4 258.7 308.1 187.2 191.2 Unrecognized net actuarial loss gain n a n a n a 70.9 248.3 319.2 n a 55.1 Unrecognized net asset liability at transition n a n a n a 0.4 4.7 4.3 n a Unrecognized prior service cost n a n a n a 0.5 3.0 3.5 n a 19.5 Net amount recognized 47.3 212.5 259.8 21.6 2.7 18.9 187.2 265.8 Amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial position Current assets: Prepaid benefit costs n a n a n a 1.6 1.6 n a Non-current assets: Intangible assets n a n a n a 0.6 6.0 6.6 n a Pension surpluses 5.4 1.1 6.5 n a n a n a Current liabilities: Benefit obligations 5.4 5.4 n a n a n a 16.5 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 1.9 13.4 15.3 3.1 Non-current liabilities: Benefit obligations 50.8 194.8 245.6 48.6 201.3 249.9 167.6 265.8 Minimum pension liability n a n a n a 69.6 191.0 260.6 n a Net amount recognized 47.3 212.5 259.8 21.6 2.7 18.9 187.2 265.8 As at December 30, 2006, the amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income that have not yet been recognized as a component of the net periodic benefit cost were as follows: Pension benefits Other benefits UK plans Non-UK plans Total All plans $ million $ million $ million $ million Net actuarial loss gain 76.6 219.7 296.3 48.6 Net liability at transition 1.0 1.0 Prior service cost benefit 0.1 3.1 3.2 16.7 Net amount recognized 76.7 223.8 300.5 65.3 As at December 30, 2006, the amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income that are expected to be recognized as a component of the net periodic benefit cost in fiscal 2007 were as follows: Pension benefits Other benefits UK plans Non-UK plans Total All plans $ million $ million $ million $ million Net actuarial loss gain 3.7 15.9 19.6 4.4 Prior service cost benefit 0.2 0.5 0.7 2.7 Net amount expected to be recognized 3.9 16.4 20.3 7.1 138 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 19.
Post-retirement benefits continued The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $1,219.1 million at December 30, 2006 and $1,133.9 million at December 31, 2005.
The accumulated benefit obligation has been calculated in accordance with Approach 1 described in EITF88-1 Determination of Vested Benefit Obligation for a Defined Benefit Pension Plan.
Pension benefits Other benefits Year ended December 30, 2006 Year ended December 31, 2005 Year ended Year ended Non-UK Non-UK December 30, December 31, UK plans plans Total UK plans plans Total 2006 2005 $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Increase decrease in minimum pension liability included in other comprehensive income, net of intangible assets 8.3 23.3 15.0 42.9 8.9 51.8 n a n a Information regarding pension plans in which projected benefit obligations inclusive of anticipated future compensation increases and accumulated benefit obligations exceed plan assets.
As at December 30, 2006 As at December 31, 2005 UK plans Non-UK plans Total UK plans Non-UK plans Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Projected benefit obligation 432.9 793.5 1,226.4 370.9 797.7 1,168.6 Accumulated benefit obligation 427.0 739.7 1,166.7 363.8 738.2 1,102.0 Fair value of plan assets 378.6 575.9 954.5 316.9 534.8 851.7 The major assumptions used in valuing year-end pension and post-retirement plan obligations were as follows: Pension benefits Other benefits As at December 30, 2006 As at December 31, 2005 As at As at December 30, December 31, UK plans Non-UK plans UK plans Non-UK plans 2006 2005 Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at year-end Discount rate 5.01% 5.55% 5.00% 5.34% 5.65% 5.44% Rate of compensation increase 4.00% 5.35% 4.00% 5.39% n a n a Ultimate medical trend rate n a n a n a n a 4.33% 4.18% Pension plan assets Pension plan assets are invested in equity securities, bonds and other fixed income securities, money market instruments, and insurance contracts.
The Companys weighted average worldwide actual asset allocations at December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 by asset category are as follows: Plan assets As at As at December 30, December 31, 2006 2005 Target allocation Asset category Equity securities 58% 60% 50-70% Fixed income securities 38% 35% 30-40% Other assets 4% 5% % Total 100% 100% 100% The return and risk expectations for each asset class incorporate assumptions about historical return relationships, current financial market conditions and the degree of global capital market integration.
The assumptions used have been derived from rigorous historical performance analysis combined with forward looking views of the financial markets as revealed through a the yield on long-term bonds and b the price earnings ratios of the major stock market indices.
The actuaries review analyses of historical risk and the correlation of the return on asset classes and apply subjective judgment based on their knowledge of the Companys plans.
The result of this analysis is incorporated into a risk matrix from which expected long-term risk premiums for each asset class are developed.
The nominal return expectations are determined by combining the asset class risk premiums with expected inflation and real risk-free rate assumptions.
As a final consideration, the nominal return assumptions are blended with current market conditions to develop long-term equilibrium expectations.
Annual Report 2006 139 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Post-retirement benefits continued The Companys investment strategy for pension plan assets includes diversification to minimize interest and market risks.
On December 1, 2005 the Tomkins North American Retirement Board redenominated existing fixed income assets in the US defined benefit pension plans amounting to $152.0 million and entered into $308.0 million of US dollar denominated interest rate swaps with a combined average duration of 11.5 years.
This has resulted in a hedge of the interest rate risk inherent in the accrued benefit obligation of the plans, whereby future changes in the accrued benefit obligation arising from changes in the interest rate will be matched by equal and opposite movements in the value of the assets, protecting the deficit from future interest rate changes.
In general, the investment strategy for non-US plans does not involve the use of derivative financial instruments.
Plan assets are rebalanced periodically to maintain target asset allocations.
Maturities of investments are not necessarily related to the timing of expected future benefit payments, but adequate liquidity to make immediate and medium-term benefit payments is ensured.
Contributions The Companys funding policy for its defined benefit plans is to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with federal law and other regulations.
Post-retirement health and life insurance benefits are funded as incurred.
The Company expects to contribute approximately $65.1 million to its pension plans during fiscal 2007.
Benefit payments The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service as appropriate, are expected to be paid: Pension benefits Other benefits UK plans Non-UK plans Total All plans $ million $ million $ million $ million Fiscal years 2007 18.2 61.7 79.9 16.8 2008 20.4 55.9 76.3 16.9 2009 19.4 56.7 76.1 16.9 2010 20.4 57.1 77.5 16.8 2011 20.8 58.1 78.9 16.6 2012-2016 115.1 289.9 405.0 74.5 Health care cost trends and the impact of the Medicare Prescription Act of 2003 The weighted average annual rate of increase in the per-capita cost of covered benefits ie health care cost trend rate is assumed to be 7.94% for fiscal 2007, reducing gradually to 4.33% by fiscal 2017 and remaining at that level thereafter.
A one percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would have the following effects as of December 30, 2006: 1% point increase 1% point decrease $ million $ million Effect on the total of service and interest cost 0.9 0.9 Effect on the post-retirement benefit obligation 15.1 15.1 20.
Background The Company operates a number of share-based compensation plans to provide incentives to its senior management and other eligible employees.
Details of the plans in respect of which options and awards were outstanding as at December 31, 2005 are set out below.
The Company adopted SFAS123 R Share-based Payment using the modified prospective method with an effective date of January 2, 2005.
Prior to adopting SFAS123 R, the Company accounted for share-based compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed in APB25 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.
The Companys financial statements for fiscal 2004 have not been restated to reflect the adoption of SFAS123 R. Pro forma information on the effect on the Companys net income and net income per common share for fiscal 2004 had the Company previously accounted for share-based compensation using the fair value method prescribed in SFAS123 Accounting for Stock-based Compensation is presented in note 2.
The compensation expense recognized in income and the related income tax benefit in respect of share-based compensation plans was as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Awards classified as: Equity 8.9 15.4 4.3 Liabilities 6.7 1.1 2.3 Total compensation expense 15.6 16.5 6.6 Income tax charge benefit 0.1 2.4 Effect on net income 15.7 16.5 4.2 140 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 20.
Share options Following a review by management in fiscal 2004, it was decided that the Companys executive share option plans would not be renewed when they lapsed for the purposes of new grants in May 2005.
Accordingly, no new options were granted under these plans during fiscal 2006.
Options will continue to be granted from time to time under the Tomkins 2005 Sharesave Scheme, a savings related share option plan which is open to employees who are resident for tax purposes in the UK.
Options granted under the Tomkins 2005 Sharesave Scheme generally vest on the fifth anniversary of the grant date and expire if they are not exercised within six months of the vesting date.
Details of the share option plans that are closed for the purposes of new grants but under which options were outstanding as at December 30, 2006 are as follows: Tomkins Executive Share Option Scheme No.
3 ESOS 3 and The Tomkins Executive Share Option Scheme No.
4 ESOS 4 Options granted under ESOS 3 and ESOS 4 cannot generally be exercised until the third anniversary of the date of grant and until the performance condition has been satisfied.
The performance condition will be achieved if the rate of increase of the Companys earnings per share exceeds the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index by an average of 2% per annum over any three-year period after the option is granted based on a simple arithmetic calculation that is made annually when the Companys results are known.
In any event, options granted under these plans generally expire if they are not exercised by the tenth anniversary of the grant date.
Tomkins Premium Priced Option The Tomkins Premium Priced Option was an option specifically and solely granted to James Nicol as part of the incentive package to attract him to the Company.
It consists of a non-transferable option to acquire 5,076,142 shares granted on February 11, 2002.
The price per share payable on the exercise of the option will be 338 cents in respect of 2,538,072 shares A option shares, 474 cents in respect of 1,522,842 shares B option shares and 592 cents in respect of 1,015,228 shares C option shares.
No performance conditions were attached to these options.
The options vested as to one-third of A, B and C option shares on February 18, 2003, one-third of A, B and C option shares on February 18, 2004 and as to one-third of A, B and C option shares on February 18, 2005.
The option will expire on February 11, 2012 or earlier in certain circumstances.
Ongoing Option The Ongoing Option was also an option specifically and solely granted to James Nicol on February 11, 2002, as part of the incentive package to attract him to the Company.
It consisted of a non-transferable option to acquire 1,522,842 shares at 338 cents, which could not be exercised before February 18, 2005 and unless and until the performance condition has been satisfied or waived.
The performance condition was such that the option would vest if, on or after the third anniversary of the date of grant, the rate of increase of the Companys earnings per share over any three-year period was equal to or greater than the rate of increase of the UK Retail Prices Index plus 9%.
The performance condition has now been met and the option vested on February 18, 2006.
Mr Nicol exercised the option over 972,842 shares during fiscal 2006.
The remaining option over 550,000 shares will expire on February 11, 2012 or earlier in certain circumstances.
The Tomkins 2005 Sharesave Scheme The Tomkins 2005 Sharesave Scheme is open to employees who are resident for tax purposes in the UK.
Options granted under this plan generally vest on either the third, the fifth or the seventh anniversary of the grant date and expire if they are not exercised within six months of the vesting date.
The Tomkins 2005 Sharesave Scheme replaced The Tomkins Savings Related Share Option Scheme No.
2, which was a similar plan that lapsed for the purposes of new grants during fiscal 2005.
Changes in the total number of options outstanding during the period were as follows: Weighted average Options exercise price Number Cents Outstanding as at December 31, 2005 28,429,132 401.78 Granted during the period 233,939 493.97 Forfeited during the period 1,026,815 417.97 Exercised during the period 7,140,701 385.09 Outstanding as at December 30, 2006 20,495,555 475.80 Exercisable as at December 30, 2006 13,743,098 477.38 Options that were outstanding but were not exercisable as at December 30, 2006 had a total intrinsic value of $1.0 million and a weighted average remaining contractual term of 6.7 years.
The Company expects to recognize an aggregate compensation expense of $2.7 million in respect of options that were not exercisable as at December 30, 2006 over their weighted average remaining period to vesting of 1.3 years.
Options that were exercisable as at December 30, 2006 had a total intrinsic value of $5.2 million and a weighted average remaining contractual term of 5.8 years.
The Companys policy is generally to issue new shares to satisfy options exercised under its share option plans.
Annual Report 2006 141 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 20.
Share-based compensation continued During fiscal 2006, the Company received $27.3 million fiscal 2005: $0.7 million, fiscal 2004: $2.2 million in cash from the exercise of share options whose total intrinsic value was $15.9 million fiscal 2005: $0.1 million, fiscal 2004: $0.9 million.
The tax benefit realized by the Company on the exercise of these options was $nil fiscal 2005: $nil, fiscal 2004: $0.3 million.
The compensation expense recognized in respect of share options is based on their fair value at the grant date calculated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
Assumptions made in calculating the fair values of options granted were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 Options granted 233,939 419,297 6,853,762 Weighted average fair value 195.48c 158.39c 128.13c Weighted average assumptions: Share price 617.46c 495.66c 457.03c Exercise price 493.97c 396.53c 436.43c Expected volatility 28.94% 30.46% 31.50% Expected term 4.55 years 5.25 years 5.83 years Risk free interest rate 4.50% 3.84% 4.51% Expected dividends 23.84c 22.88c 21.91c Expected volatility was determined based on the historical volatility of the market price of the Companys ordinary shares over the shorter of the expected life of the options and the period since the beginning of the Companys fiscal year ended April 30, 2002 when, following a period of significant demerger activity, the Company was refocused on its remaining core businesses.
Adjustments have been made to the expected term used in the model to reflect the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioral considerations, where available based on historical experience of similar awards.
In fiscal 2006, the compensation expense recognized in respect of share options was $7.0 million fiscal 2005: $9.8 million: fiscal 2004: $0.6 million which included $6.7 million in respect of awards granted under ESOS3, ESOS4 and the Ongoing Option which, until such time as they vest, are classified as liabilities under SFAS123 R. C. Other awards Details of the other equity-settled plans operated by the Company under which awards were outstanding as at December 30, 2006 are as follows: Annual Bonus Incentive Plan ABIP The Companys executive Directors and other senior executives participate in the Annual Bonus Incentive Plan ABIP.
Each participant in the plan receives a percentage of bonusable profit of the business for which he or she has responsibility.
Bonusable profit is based on operating profit less a charge for tax and a charge for invested capital.
Bonusable profit may also be adjusted for restructuring costs and, with the approval of the Remuneration Committee, certain other items such as gains or losses on the disposal and exit of businesses.
Senior participants receive their bonus as to four-sevenths in cash, one-seventh in bonus shares and two-sevenths in deferred shares.
Other participants receive their bonus as to three-quarters in cash, one-twelfth in bonus shares and one-sixth in deferred shares.
Bonuses are paid at the end of June, September and December based on 75% of the bonus earned to the end of the previous quarter, with the balance of the full entitlement to the bonus for the fiscal year paid at the end of March following the fiscal year-end.
Bonus shares are restricted and vest only after a period of three years after the initial bonus award.
Dividends are paid on the bonus shares.
Deferred shares are awarded at the time of the initial bonus award but the vesting of the shares is conditional on continued employment with the Company for three years after the award.
Dividends are not paid on the deferred shares until they have vested.
As a condition of continued participation in the plan, senior participants are required to hold shares with a purchase cost equivalent to one years total after-tax remuneration including bonus, based on an average of the previous three years.
Other participants are required to hold shares with a purchase cost equivalent to one half of one years total after-tax remuneration including bonus, based on an average of the previous three years.
Tomkins 2006 Performance Share Plan PSP The Companys executive Directors and other senior executives participate in the PSP under which the first awards were made in fiscal 2006.
Awards made under the PSP consist of deferred shares that do not generally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant and provided the performance condition has been satisfied.
The performance condition is based on comparison of the Companys annualised total shareholder return TSR over the vesting period subject to a maximum and its cost of equity.
If the Companys annualised TSR does not exceed its cost of equity over the vesting period, the award will not vest.
If the Companys annualised TSR exceeds its cost of equity and is equal to or exceeds the maximum TSR, the award will vest in full.
If the Companys annualised TSR exceeds its cost of equity but does not exceed the maximum TSR, the award will vest on a pro-rata basis determined by the excess of the Companys annualised TSR over its cost of equity as a percentage of the difference between the Companys cost of equity and the maximum TSR.
142 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 20.
Share-based compensation continued Share Matching Scheme SMS In the event that restricted shares vested under a now expired plan, the Tomkins Restricted Share Plan RSP, the SMS provided for up to two conditional matching awards.
Each matching award was for the number of shares that had vested under the RSP with proportionate reductions in the event that the participant disposed of any shares that had vested under the RSP.
The first matching award under the SMS was subject to forfeiture if the participant left the Company before the second anniversary of the grant date.
The second matching award was made when the first matching award vested and was subject to forfeiture if the participant left the Company before the second anniversary of the grant date.
The final award under the SMS was made during fiscal 2005 and the plan is now closed for the purposes of new awards.
Changes in the total number of awards outstanding under these plans during fiscal 2006 were as follows: Weighted average grant date Awards fair value Number Cents Outstanding as at December 31, 2005 3,222,997 468.10 Granted during the period 9,509,604 216.68 Forfeited during the period 283,851 193.13 Vested during the period 672,167 481.56 Outstanding as at December 30, 2006 11,776,583 290.55 During fiscal 2006, awards were made over 1,643,031 ordinary shares under ABIP and over 7,866,573 ordinary shares under the PSP.
The Company expects to recognize an aggregate compensation expense of $17.4 million in respect of awards that had not vested as at December 30, 2006 over their weighted average remaining period to vesting of 2.5 years.
The total intrinsic value of awards that vested under these plans during fiscal 2006 was $2.9 million fiscal 2005: $nil, fiscal 2004: $2.9 million.
The tax benefit realized by the Company on the vesting of these awards was $4.6 million fiscal 2005: $nil, fiscal 2004: $1.0 million.
The fair value of awards made under the ABIP is measured based on the market price of the Companys ordinary shares on the date of the award.
Where the awards do not attract dividends during the vesting period, the market price is reduced by the present value of the dividends expected to be paid during the expected life of the awards.
The weighted average fair value of the awards made under these schemes during the period was 488.58 cents fiscal 2005: 466.12 cents.
The fair value of awards made under the PSP is measured using a Monte-Carlo valuation model.
Assumptions made in calculating the fair value of awards granted under the PSP were as follows: Year ended December 30, 2006 Weighted average fair value 159.87c Weighted average assumptions: Expected volatility 23.01% Expected life 2.78 years Risk free interest rate 4.75% Dividend yield 4.73% Expected volatility was determined based on the historical volatility of the market price of the Companys ordinary shares over the expected life of the awards.
In fiscal 2006, the compensation expense recognized in respect of other awards was $8.6 million fiscal 2005: $6.7 million: fiscal 2004: $6.0 million.
In fiscal 2005, the compensation expense included $1.1 million fiscal 2004: $2.3 million in respect of the Deferred Matching Share Purchase Plan which was introduced for James Nicol as part of the incentive package to attract him to the Company.
Under the terms of his contract, Mr Nicol was entitled to elect to receive a cash payment in lieu of shares and for this reason the award to him under this plan was classified as a liability.
In the event, Mr Nicol elected to receive cash and the Companys obligation under the plan was settled on February 28, 2005.
Annual Report 2006 143 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 21.
Capital leases Future minimum lease payments under capital leases that had initial or remaining non-cancellable lease terms in excess of one year as at December 30, 2006 were as follows: $ million Fiscal year 2007 3.7 2008 3.6 2009 2.8 2010 2.7 2011 2.1 Thereafter 7.5 Total minimum payments 22.4 Less: Future interest 4.3 Total principal payable 18.1 22.
Commitments under operating leases Future minimum lease payments under operating leases that had initial or remaining non-cancellable lease terms in excess of one year as at December 30, 2006 were as follows: $ million Fiscal year 2007 48.3 2008 40.6 2009 35.0 2010 26.4 2011 22.9 Thereafter 106.3 Total minimum payments 279.5 The rental expense recognized in respect of assets held under operating leases was as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Land and buildings 28.5 26.7 26.5 Plant and machinery 17.2 10.9 12.8 Total operating lease rental expense 45.7 37.6 39.3 23.
Capital commitments As at December 30, 2006, the Company had entered into contractual commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment amounting to $39.1 million December 31, 2005: $63.7 million.
Contingencies The Company is, from time to time, party to legal proceedings and claims, which arise in the ordinary course of business.
The Directors do not anticipate that the outcome of any of these proceedings and claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
As at December 30, 2006, the Company had issued unused letters of credit amounting to $169.1 million December 31, 2005: $130.3 million.
144 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 25.
Guarantees The Company has guaranteed the borrowing facilities of certain of its subsidiaries.
The maximum borrowings permitted under these facilities as at December 30, 2006 was $1,632.3 million December 31, 2005: $1,403.0 million.
Drawings against these facilities as at December 30, 2006 amounted to $890.3 million December 31, 2005: $758.1 million.
One of the Companys subsidiaries has guaranteed the Companys borrowings under the Euro Medium Term Note Program amounting to $293.6 million December 31, 2005: $257.5 million.
Restructuring The Company defines restructuring expenses to include charges incurred with respect to exit or disposal activities accounted for in accordance with SFAS146 Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, employee severance costs incurred as a result of an exit or disposal activity accounted for in accordance with SFAS88 Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits and SFAS112 Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, and pension and other post-employment benefit costs incurred as a result of an exit or disposal activity accounted for in accordance with SFAS87 Employers Accounting for Pensions and SFAS106 Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits other than Pensions.
The Company has undertaken various restructuring activities to streamline its operations, consolidate and take advantage of available capacity and resources, and ultimately achieve net cost reductions.
Restructuring activities include efforts to integrate and rationalize the Companys businesses and to relocate manufacturing operations to lower cost locations.
During fiscal 2006, restructuring costs recognized in the income statement amounted to $36.5 million fiscal 2005: $39.0 million.
Provisions for restructuring costs were as follows: Fixed asset Employee related write-downs Other costs Total $ million $ million $ million $ million Balance as at January 3, 2004 11.5 7.9 19.4 Cash expenditure 7.6 23.5 31.1 Non-cash expenditure 9.0 1.4 10.4 Charged to income 6.2 9.0 18.9 34.1 Foreign currency translation 0.1 0.1 Balance as at January 1, 2005 10.2 1.9 12.1 Cash expenditure 7.5 11.9 19.4 Non-cash expenditure 8.0 7.9 15.9 Charged to income 10.1 8.0 20.9 39.0 Foreign currency translation 0.7 0.2 0.9 Balance as at December 31, 2005 12.1 2.8 14.9 Cash expenditure 16.6 22.5 39.1 Non-cash expenditure 3.3 3.3 Charged to income 12.7 3.3 20.5 36.5 Foreign currency translation 1.0 0.2 1.2 Balance as at December 30, 2006 9.2 1.0 10.2 Annual Report 2006 145 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Restructuring continued Industrial & Automotive In Power Transmission, Stackpoles pump components facility at Ontario, Canada was closed and the production was transferred to a new facility at Ancaster, Canada.
In Fluid Power, fiscal 2006 saw the initial transfer of machining coupling assembly and testing equipment operations from St. Neots, UK to a new facility at Karvina, Czech Republic.
It is expected that this project will be completed during fiscal 2007.
Building products In Air Systems Components, the rationalization of production facilities continued including, in particular, the closure of the Lima, Ohio facility and the decision to close the New Holland, Michigan facility and transfer production to a lower cost facility in Mexico.
Segmental analysis of income statement expense: Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 11.7 1.9 8.6 Fluid Power 5.7 1.6 1.8 Fluid Systems 0.7 0.7 4.7 Other Industrial & Automotive 0.6 3.0 5.2 18.7 4.0 20.3 Building Products: Air Systems Components 5.9 5.2 1.8 Other Building Products 0.1 3.1 5.9 5.1 4.9 24.6 9.1 25.2 Discontinued operations 11.9 29.9 8.9 36.5 39.0 34.1 Segmental analysis of restructuring provisions: As at As at As at December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 2.4 2.0 0.4 Fluid Power 4.6 2.4 Fluid Systems 0.5 0.9 Other Industrial & Automotive 2.0 1.1 7.5 4.0 4.8 Building Products: Air Systems Components 4.2 4.5 Other Building Products 0.5 4.2 5.0 7.5 8.2 9.8 Discontinued operations 2.7 6.7 2.3 10.2 14.9 12.1 The cumulative expense recognized prior to December 30, 2006 in relation to restructuring projects ongoing as at that date was $32.9 million.
As at December 30, 2006, the Company expected to recognize further expenses in relation to ongoing restructurings amounting to $15.7 million, all of which will be incurred in fiscal 2007.
146 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Group US GAAP 27.
Capital structure The Companys issued share capital comprises ordinary shares of 5p each common shares and convertible cumulative preference shares of $50 each preferred shares.
Preferred shares On July 29, 1996, the Company issued 10,532,732 preferred shares in connection with the acquisition of The Gates Corporation.
The preferred shares were issued on terms that they could be converted at any time, at the shareholders option, into fully paid common shares on the basis of 9.77 common shares for every preferred share so converted.
At the date of issue, the conversion terms of the preferred shares were equivalent to a price of 334p per common share.
On March 9, 2006, 7,800,000 of the preferred shares held by B-C Management LLC as nominee for Bear Creek Inc. Bear Creek a corporate trustee administering certain Gates family trusts, and The Gates Family Foundation Gates were converted into 76,205,998 fully paid common shares.
Following the conversion, the common shares issued were placed on behalf of Bear Creek and Gates amongst institutional investors.
During 2006, a further 37,636 preferred shares were converted into 367,699 fully paid common shares.
Since July 26, 2006, the Company has had the option to redeem at any time all or any of the issued and outstanding preferred shares.
Until such time as the preferred shares are converted or redeemed, the holders of the preferred shares have a right to receive dividends at an annual rate of 5.560% in preference to the holders of the common shares.
The holders of the preferred shares are entitled to vote at a general meeting of the Company where, on a show of hands, each holder will have one vote and, on a poll, each holder will have one vote in respect of every seven fully paid common shares to which the holder would be entitled on the full exercise of his conversion rights, except if two or more consecutive quarterly dividends are in arrears whereupon, on a poll, each holder shall have one vote in respect of every fully paid common share to which the holder would be entitled on the full exercise of his conversion rights and such voting rights would continue until such time as any arrears of dividends have been paid in full.
On a return of assets on liquidation or otherwise, other than on redemption or repurchase of the preferred shares, the assets of the Company available to shareholders will be applied first in repaying the capital paid up or credited as paid up in respect of the preferred shares together with all arrears and accruals of dividends to the holders of the preferred shares and any other classes of shares ranking pari passu as to capital with the preferred shares.
Restricted reserves Under UK law, there is a concept of a capital redemption reserve.
In the event that the Company purchases its own shares, in certain circumstances it is required to transfer an amount equivalent to the nominal value of the shares purchased to the capital redemption reserve in order to maintain the capital of the Company.
The capital redemption reserve is a restricted reserve, as it cannot be distributed to shareholders.
Related party transactions  Thermostat Co Ltd  Thermostat Co Ltd  is an associate in which the Company has a 32% interest.
During the period, Standard-Thomson Corporation Standard-Thomson, a wholly-owned subsidiary, purchased thermostats and thermostat components from  amounting to $1,892,558 fiscal 2005: $1,104,979.
Also during the period, Standard-Thomson sold thermostat components to  amounting to $50,857 fiscal 2005: $72,682.
As at December 30, 2006, there was a nil balance outstanding in respect of these transactions December 31, 2005: $nil.
Ideal International SA Ideal International SA Ideal International is an associate in which the Company has a 40% interest.
During the period, Ideal, a wholly-owned subsidiary, sold parts and other items and provided technical assistance to Ideal International amounting to $424,614 fiscal 2005: $251,279.
As at December 30, 2006, $239,710 was receivable from Ideal International in respect of these transactions December 31, 2005: $181,467.
IGC, LLC During the period, the Group purchased aviation services under an agreement with IGC, LLC and GForce Aviation, LLC.
IGC, LLC is wholly-owned by the Gates family, certain of whom have an interest in the Companys preferred shares.
The agreement was entered into on an arms-length basis and the services provided are used strictly for corporate travel to the Companys diverse locations within North America and only if there is no convenient lower cost alternative available to the Companys employees.
The agreement permits the Company to purchase an unlimited number of aircraft flying hours at the rate of $2,700 per flying hour, plus $1,500 per day for crew, plus $2,100 per month to cover insurance costs.
During fiscal 2006, the Company recognized an expense of $98,900 fiscal 2005: $147,870 in respect of these services.
As at December 30, 2006, $15,999 was payable to IGC, LLC in respect of these transactions December 31, 2005: $2,100.
Lu Hai Rubber Metal Company Ltd Lead-Pro Industrial Ltd is the minority shareholder in the Companys 60% owned subsidiary, Schrader-Lu Hai Rubber Metal Kunshan Co Ltd Schrader-Lu Hai.
During the period, Schrader-Lu Hai incurred fees for materials processing services provided by Lu Hai Rubber Metal Company Ltd, a subsidiary of Lead-Pro Industrial Ltd, amounting to $234,063 fiscal 2005: $204,250.
Annual Report 2006 147 Financial statements Group US GAAP Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Related party transactions continued Nitta Corporation Nitta Corporation Nitta is the minority shareholder in the Companys 51% owned subsidiary, Gates Unitta Asia Company Ltd Gates Unitta.
During the period, a number of transactions took place between these companies in the ordinary course of business.
Sales of automotive and industrial products by Gates Unitta to Nitta amounted to $46,561,083 fiscal 2005: $42,415,546.
Gates Unitta incurred sales commission due to Nitta amounting to $4,337,518 fiscal 2005: $4,032,774, purchased raw materials from Nitta amounting to $33,609,008 fiscal 2005: $35,084,916, incurred rent payable to Nitta amounting to $7,355,202 fiscal 2005: $7,616,954 and incurred fees for administrative services provided by Nitta amounting to $7,301,674 fiscal 2005: $8,298,114.
As at December 30, 2006, the net amount receivable from Nitta Corporation in respect of these transactions was $461,547 December 31, 2005: $459,840.
Nitta is also the minority shareholder in the Companys 51% owned subsidiary, Gates Korea Company Ltd Gates Korea.
During the period, Gates Korea purchased raw materials from Nitta amounting to $3,510,908 fiscal 2005: $3,483,730.
As at December 30, 2006, $849,161 was payable to Nitta in respect of these transactions December 31, 2005: $844,528.
Pyung Hwa CMB Co Ltd Pyung Hwa CMB Co Ltd Pyung Hwa is an associate in which the Company has a 21% interest.
During the period, Gates Korea Company Ltd, a 51% owned subsidiary, purchased raw materials from Pyung Hwa amounting to $8,222,799 fiscal 2005: $8,412,091.
As at December 30, 2006, $2,011,138 was payable to Pyung Hwa in respect of these transactions December 31, 2005: $2,330,424.
Winhere Auto Part Manufacturing Co Ltd Dexon Investments Limited Dexon is the minority shareholder in the Companys 60% owned subsidiary, Winhere LLC, that was incorporated during 2006.
On July 19, 2006, Winhere LLC, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Gates Winhere Automotive Pump Products Yantai Co Ltd Gates Winhere, acquired the business and assets of the water pump manufacturing operations of Winhere Auto Part Manufacturing Co Ltd Winhere, a fellow subsidiary of Dexon, for $8.7 million in cash.
During the period since the acquisition, sales by Gates Winhere to Winhere amounted to $1,574,864 and Gates Winhere incurred rent payable to Winhere amounting to $59,570.
As at December 30, 2006, there was a nil balance outstanding in respect of these transactions.
Allowance for doubtful accounts The movements in the allowance for doubtful accounts are as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended December 30, December 31, January 1, 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million Balance at the beginning of the period 13.5 11.7 15.8 Charged to income 1.7 5.4 1.3 Charged to other accounts 1.3 1.3 Utilized 3.0 1.6 4.9 Foreign currency translation 0.9 0.7 0.8 Balance at the end of the period 13.1 13.5 11.7 Includes movements arising from the acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries.
Subsequent event On February 13, 2007, the Company announced that it had reached agreement to sell Lasco Fittings Inc. to Aalberts Industries US Holding Corp. a subsidiary of Aalberts Industries NV.
Completion of the sale took place on February 23, 2007.
