Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General information Autonomy Corporation plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985.
The registered office is at Autonomy House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge CB4 0WZ, UK.
The nature of the groups operations and its principal activities are set out on page 8.
The companys functional currency is sterling as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates.
The presentational currency is dollars as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease IFRIC 5 Right to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29 Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives IFRIC 10 Interim reporting and impairments IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the group or company, except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the relevant standards come into effect for the year ending 31 December 2007.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of trade investments and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the company are set out below.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
c Joint ventures Joint ventures are accounted for using the method of proportionate consolidation.
The application of this method combines on a line-byline basis the assets, liabilities, income and expense of joint ventures with those of the group.
If the group contributes or sells assets to a joint venture only that portion of the gain or loss attributable to the interests of the other venturers is recognized.
Autonomy Corporation plc 26 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued d Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale see below.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of the associates in excess of the groups interest in those associates are not recognised.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited in profit or loss in the period of acquisition.
Where a group company transacts with an associate of the group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
e Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous US GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at the date of transition to IFRS.
f Revenue recognition The group generates revenues from licensing the rights to use its software products directly to end-users and indirectly through resale by resellers.
The group also generates revenues from sales of consulting, customer support and training services performed for customers that licence its products.
Revenues from software licence agreements are recognised where there is persuasive evidence of an agreement with a customer contract and or binding purchase order, delivery of the software has taken place, collectability is probable and the fee is fixed and determinable.
If an acceptance period is required, revenues are recognised upon the earlier of customer acceptance or the expiration of the acceptance period.
Revenue is recognized on contracts with credit terms of up to one year providing that the customer passes defined credit-worthiness checks.
If significant post-delivery obligations exist or if a sale is subject to customer acceptance, revenues are deferred until no significant obligations remain or acceptance has occurred.
The group enters into reseller arrangements that typically provide for fees payable to the group based on agreed discounted license rates.
Sales are generally recognised as reported by the reseller in resale of the groups products to end-users.
Sales are recognised if all products subject to resale are delivered in the current period, no right of return policy exists, collection is probable and the fee is fixed and determinable.
The group also enters into OEM agreements that may provide for the payment of advance license royalties and ongoing license royalty obligations.
In certain circumstances, advance royalties are recognised upon the initial contract if all products subject to sub-licensing are delivered in the current period, no right of return policy exists, collection is probable and the fee is fixed and determinable.
Revenues from customer support services are recognised rateably over the term of the support period.
If customer support services are included free or at a discount in a licence agreement, these amounts are allocated out of the license fee at their fair market value based on the value established by independent sale of the customer support services to customers.
Consulting revenues are primarily related to implementation services performed on a time and materials basis under separable service arrangements related to the installation of the groups software products.
Revenues from consulting and training services are recognised as services are performed.
If a transaction includes both license and service elements, licence fee revenue is recognised upon shipment of the software, provided services do not include significant customisation or modification of the base product and the payment terms for licenses are not subject to acceptance criteria.
In cases where licence fee payments are contingent upon the acceptance of services, revenues from both the licence and the service elements are deferred until the acceptance criteria are met.
27 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Cost of licence revenues includes the cost of royalties due on third party licences, cost of product media, product duplication and manuals.
Deferred revenues primarily relate to customer support fees, which have been invoiced to the customer prior to the performance of these services.
Deferred revenue is generally recognised over a period of one to three years.
g Leasing Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
h Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity concerned are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into US.
dollars at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are denominated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
i Profit from operations Profit from operations is stated before investment income and finance costs.
j Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, and the group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Autonomy Corporation plc 28 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued k Property, plant and equipment Leasehold improvements, fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land and properties under construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Leasehold improvements Over shorter of economic useful life and lease term Fixtures and equipment Over 35 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
l Internally-generated intangible assets - research and development expenditure Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the groups product development is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: - an asset is created that can be identified such as software and new processes : - it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: - the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably: and - the product from which the asset arises meets the groups criteria for technical feasibility.
Internally-generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, which is 3 years.
Where no internallygenerated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
m Other intangible assets excluding goodwill Other intangible assets excluding goodwill are measured initially at purchase cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, on the following bases: Patents and trademarks 3 years Software licences 3 years Purchased intangibles 3 12 years.
n Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
o Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
29 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued p Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the groups balance sheet when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
q Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognized in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
r Financial liability and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the group after deducting all of its liabilities.
s Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in profit or loss using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
t Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
u Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
v Provisions Provisions are recognized when the group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
w Equity and other investments Equity and other investments are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
These investments have been designated as fair value through the profit and loss account.
x Share-based payments The group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2004.
The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black Scholes model.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty a Critical judgements in applying the groups accounting policies In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2, management have made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements apart from those involving estimations, which are discussed below.
Revenue recognition There are no significant judgements which management consider have a material impact on the financial statements.
The accounting policy set out in note 2 has been followed with no significant judgements required to be made.
Autonomy Corporation plc 30 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued b Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Recoverability of internally generated intangible assets During the year $3.2 million of internally generated intangible assets were capitalised as required in accordance with IAS 38.
Management have assessed expected revenues to be generated from these assets and deemed that no adjustment is required to the carrying value of the assets.
Impairment of goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units CGU to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows of the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was $415.8 million 2005: $398.8 million.
Trade receivables The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade receivables approximates their fair value.
A provision has been made for estimated unrecoverable amounts based on information available to management.
Changes in collectability of trade receivables may impact the level of provision required.
Segmental analysis Whilst the group currently operates under a number of different divisions, the groups core technology, types of revenue and associated costs and returns are comparable.
Each of these divisions is founded on the groups unique Intelligent Data Operating Layer, the groups core infrastructure for automating the handling of all forms of unstructured information.
As a result, the group maintains only one reportable business segment, as is reflected in the reporting in this annual report.
The groups operations are located primarily in the United Kingdom and the US.
The company also has a significant presence in a number of other European countries as well as China, Japan, Singapore, Australia and Canada.
These segments have been combined as management believes the economic environments are similar and have enlarged the presentation accordingly.
Segment information about these geographical segments is presented below: 2006 2005 Result Americas ROW Total Americas ROW Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Segment result....................... 36,090 20,199 56,289 2,438 12,694 15,132 Unallocated corp. expenses... Post-acqn restr.
of investmt....... 297 Fair value adj.
of investmt..... 300 487 Loss gain on foreign.
Segmental analysis continued 2006 2005 Other Information Americas ROW Total Americas ROW Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Prop.
The corporate finance fees in 2005 related to due diligence work in connection with the etalk and Verity acquisitions.
Autonomy Corporation plc 32 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 7.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
of utilisation of tax losses not prev.
Earnings per share The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: 2006 2005 $000 $000 Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share being net profit.................................. 39,085 8,950 Number of shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share.................. 184,409 130,574 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Share options................................................................................................................................... 2,567 555 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share................ 186,976 131,129 The denominators for the purposes of calculating both basic and diluted earnings per share have been adjusted to reflect the rights issue in December 2005 as required by IAS 33 Earnings per Share.
Earnings per share adjusted is calculated by dividing the net profit adjusted amounts shown on page 22 by the share denominators shown above.
The reduction in purchased intangibles resulted in a corresponding increase in goodwill less deferred tax.
The goodwill arising in the Verity, etalk and Global Linxs acquisitions is attributable to anticipated future operating synergies from the combination.
The acquisition of other subsidiaries relates to a deferred consideration payment of 2 million in relation to the Global Linxs acquisition completed in September 2005.
The group tests annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The group has one reportable business segment and all goodwill is associated with that segment.
The recoverable amounts of the CGU is determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period.
A discount rate of 6% has been used which is the interest rate paid on the groups borrowings.
Likewise, changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on recent history and expectations of future changes in the market.
The group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budget approved by management and extrapolates cashflows for the coming ten years based on estimated growth rates.
For the purposes of this calculation management have used a growth rate of 15% for year 1 and then 5% thereafter.
Having performed impairment testing, no impairment has been identified, and therefore no impairment loss has been recognised in either year.
Autonomy Corporation plc 34 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 12.
The etalk final purchase accounting had a similar adjustment of $0.2m.
35 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 13.
Further disclosures in relation to this entity are on page 42 of the financial statements.
The fair values of these investments are based on latest financial information available for each entity.
The carrying value is considered in light of the net asset value and other known factors which have an impact on the valuation of the respective entities.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
A provision of $5,742,000 2005: $5,567,000 has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts based on information available to management.
Bad debt provisioning is a key source of estimation uncertainty for the company.
b Bank balances and cash Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
c Credit risk The groups principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables.
The groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Other than as noted in a above, the group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
37 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 16.
These losses expire at various dates from 2014 through 2025.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures are immaterial.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
The loan is denominated in U. S. dollars and carries a floating interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.95%, thus exposing the group to potential cash flow interest rate risk.
The directors estimate the fair value of the loan to be the same as the amounts shown above.
Autonomy Corporation plc 38 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 19.
There remain a small number of cases outside the United States, for which final settlement is yet to be reached.
These matters are expected to be concluded during 2007 and the provision fully utilized in that period.
The onerous lease provision relates to a number of properties within the Verity group.
Prior to acquisition, Verity notified landlords of its intention to vacate a number of properties and the provision represents managements best estimate of the liability.
Tenants are still being sought on two of the properties and hence the onerous lease obligations remain.
This is expected to be fully utilized within one to two years.
The litigation provision relates to legal matters involving Verity, Inc.
These cases are expected to reach a conclusion in the near future.
The movement in issued share capital during 2006 consists solely of the issuance of 8,243,447 shares in relation to employee stock option exercises.
39 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 22.
Cash flows from acquisitions are presented within investing activities as required under IAS 7 para 39, which states [t]he aggregate cash flows arising from acquisitions and from disposals of subsidiaries or other business units shall be presented separately and classified as investing activities.
Interest receivable and payable are presented within investment income, as opposed to operating cash flows, in accordance with market practice and as required under IAS 7 para 33, which states [i]nterest paid and interest and dividends received may be classified as financing cash flows and investing cash flows respectively, because they are costs of obtaining financial resources or returns on investment.
Post-acquisition restructuring expenses are presented as non-operating activities as required under IAS 1 BC13, which states [i]t would be inappropriate to exclude items clearly related to operations such as inventory write downs and restructuring and relocation expenses because they occur irregularly or infrequently or are unusual in amount.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of seven years and rentals are fixed for an average of three years.
Autonomy Corporation plc 40 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 24.
The two plans are the UK Discretionary Option Scheme 1996 the UK Scheme and the 1998 US Share Option Plan the US Plan.
Under the terms of these plans, options are granted with exercise prices not less than the fair market value of the companys shares, become exercisable over vesting periods as established by the Board of Directors generally three to four years, and generally expire seven years from the date of grant.
Vested options are exercisable following termination of employment for periods ranging from zero to 90 days.
The following tables summarize options outstanding as at 31 December 2006.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2006 had a weighted average exercise price of 3.92 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.8 years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Share option exercise prices were automatically adjusted to reflect the changes in the companys share capital structure arising in connection with the companys December 2005 rights issue.
The effect of the adjustment was to ensure that employees were not unfairly discriminated against as company stakeholders following the dilution of the companys share price as a result of the rights issue.
No fair value adjustments arose as a result of this transaction.
Related party transactions Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries which are related parties have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the group and its joint venture associate are disclosed below.
There were no transactions between the group and its associate other than the initial investment in the share capital of the associate.
Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries and associates are disclosed in the companys separate financial statements.
a Trading transactions with joint venture During 2005 the group entered into commercial transactions with blinkx China Holdings Corp. which resulted in a net contribution of approximately $350,000 to group profit after tax.
The transactions were completed on an arms length basis.
There have been no transactions during 2006 and there are no balances due to or from the joint venture at 31 December 2006 2005: $nil.
b Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited portion of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 16 and 17.
Subsidiaries A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is set forth on page 48.
