Financial statements IFRS US GAAP Reconciliation of IFRS to US GAAP Significant differences between IFRS and US GAAP A.
Background As a consequence of the decision not to apply IFRS3 Business For the benefit of its US shareholders, in addition to its consolidated Combinations to business combinations that were recognised on or financial statements prepared in accordance with International before January 3, 2004, intangible resources acquired in those business Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the Group also presents combinations are not recognised as intangible assets under IFRS.
its consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance Under US GAAP, the carrying amount of acquired intangible assets with US generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP.
as at January 3, 2004 was 22.8 million.
IFRS differs from US GAAP in certain respects.
An explanation of As at December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, the difference the significant differences that affect the Groups reported results, between the carrying value of acquired intangible assets under IFRS cash flows and financial position is presented below, together with and that under US GAAP represents the difference between the reconciliation statements that quantify the effect of those differences carrying values as at January 3, 2004 adjusted for the effect of on the Groups consolidated net income for the years ended subsequent amortisation and currency exchange rate movements.
December 30, 2006 fiscal 2006, December 31, 2005 fiscal 2005 and January 1, 2005 fiscal 2004 and its consolidated shareholders iii Product development costs equity as at December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005.
Under IFRS, certain product development costs are capitalised when the conditions specified by IAS38 Intangible Assets are The Group adopted IFRS with a transition date of January 4, 2004. met.
Capitalised development costs are amortised to the income The Group previously prepared its consolidated financial statements statement over the expected life of the resulting product.
in accordance with UK generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
Under US GAAP, all product development costs are charged to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Significant differences between accounting principles i Goodwill iv Restructuring costs Under both IFRS and US GAAP, goodwill is not amortised but is Under IFRS, a restructuring plan is viewed as a whole and the tested at least annually for impairment.
However, a significant related expenses are recognised when there exists an obligation difference exists between the carrying amounts of goodwill due to carry out the restructuring, which is generally when a detailed largely to historical differences in the initial measurement and formal restructuring plan is announced.
subsequent accounting for goodwill arising on past acquisitions.
Under US GAAP, each component of a restructuring plan must be Under IFRS, the Group elected not to apply IFRS3 Business examined separately to determine when the related expenses may be Combinations to business combinations that were recognised recognised.
Termination benefits that are provided to employees that on or before January 3, 2004.
As a result, the Group recognised are involuntarily terminated under the terms of a one-time benefit goodwill amounting to 216.7 million as at January 3, 2004, which arrangement are recognised when management has committed to a represented the carrying amount of goodwill that was recognised detailed termination plan and has communicated the plan to as an asset under UK GAAP on acquisitions completed on or after employees.
Other restructuring expenses are generally recognised May 3, 1998.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed before when they are incurred.
May 3, 1998 amounting to 1,054.8 million was written off to v Capitalisation of interest reserves under UK GAAP and was not reinstated on adoption of IFRS.
Under IFRS, the Group does not capitalise any element of its interest Under US GAAP, the carrying amount of goodwill as at January 3, expense.
Under US GAAP, interest expense allocated to the construction 2004 was 953.4 million.
of major items of property, plant and equipment is capitalised and amortised over the estimated useful life of the asset concerned.
As at December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, the difference between the carrying value of goodwill under IFRS and that under vi Inventory US GAAP represents the difference between the carrying values as Under IFRS, inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable at January 3, 2004 adjusted for the effect of subsequent impairment value.
Cost is generally determined on a first in, first out FIFO basis.
and currency exchange rate movements.
Use of the last in, first out LIFO basis is prohibited under IFRS.
ii Acquired intangible assets Under US GAAP, inventories are stated at the lower of cost and market.
Under both IFRS and US GAAP, an intangible resource acquired Cost is generally determined on a FIFO basis, but a LIFO basis is used in a business combination is recognised as an intangible asset if it is to determine the cost of inventory held by certain US subsidiaries.
separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or legal vii Post-employment benefits rights.
However, a significant difference exists between the carrying Under both IFRS and US GAAP, the cost of defined benefit plans is amounts of acquired intangible assets due largely to the differing calculated using the projected unit credit method and is recognised treatment of intangible resources acquired in past acquisitions.
over the average expected remaining service lives of participating employees, but differences exist, principally with regard to the valuation of plan assets and benefit obligations and the methods of recognising gains and losses.
Annual Report 2006 149 Financial statements IFRS US GAAP Reconciliation of IFRS to US GAAP Significant differences between IFRS and US GAAP continued Income statement As at December 30, 2006, the Groups balance sheet under US GAAP Under IFRS, actuarial gains and losses are recognised in equity in the reflects the funded status of each plan.
period in which they occur and are not subsequently transferred to The Group has not yet adopted the measurement provisions of SFAS158.
Under US GAAP, actuarial gains and losses are Consequently, while under IFRS the Group measures plan assets and amortised over the remaining service lives of participating employees benefit obligations as at its fiscal year end date, under US GAAP the to the extent that, measured at the beginning of each fiscal year, they Group continues to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as at exceed 10% of the greater of the market related value of the plan a date not more than 90 days prior to the fiscal year-end date in fiscal assets or the projected benefit obligation.
2006, for example, the measurement date was September 30.
The Classification of the net periodic benefit cost within the income Group is required to adopt the measurement provisions of SFAS158 statement also differs between IFRS and US GAAP.
Under IFRS, the by the end of fiscal 2008. service cost, past service cost and gains and losses on settlements and viii Share-based incentives curtailments are included within operating income, but the interest Under IFRS, the Group recognises a compensation expense in respect cost is included in interest expense and the expected return on plan of share-based incentives that is based on the fair value of the awards assets is included in interest income.
Under US GAAP, the net periodic in accordance with IFRS2 Share-based Payment.
The Group applied pension cost is charged wholly to operating income.
IFRS2 retrospectively to all awards that were outstanding but had not Balance sheet vested as at January 1, 2005, except those equity-settled awards that Under IFRS, the funded status of each plan is recognised in the were granted on or before November 7, 2002.
Groups balance sheet except that prior service costs or credits are Under US GAAP, prior to January 2, 2005, the compensation recognised over their respective vesting periods and, where a plan expense was based on the intrinsic value of the awards in accordance is in surplus, the asset recognised is limited to the amount of any with APB25 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.
Effective unrecognised prior service costs and the present value of any amount January 2, 2005, the Group adopted SFAS123 R Share-based which the Group expects to recover by way of refunds or a reduction Payment which requires that the compensation expense is based in future contributions.
on the fair value of the awards.
The Group applied SFAS123 R Under US GAAP, the amounts recognised in the Groups balance prospectively to the unvested portion of all awards that were sheet as at December 30, 2006 and as at December 31, 2005 differ outstanding as at January 1, 2005. substantially because the Group adopted the recognition provisions While differences between the compensation expense recognised of SFAS158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and under IFRS and US GAAP will exist for the foreseeable future, it is Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements expected that they will largely disappear over time as the outstanding No.
SFAS158 unvested equity-settled awards granted on or before November 7, cannot be applied retrospectively.
2002 either vest or are forfeited due to failure to meet the service As at December 31, 2005, the Groups balance sheet under US GAAP or non-market performance conditions that apply to them.
reflected the net total for each plan of the fair value of the plan assets Under IFRS, all awards granted under the Groups share option plans if any less the projected benefit obligation adjusted for the unrecognised are classified as equity-settled.
Under US GAAP, awards granted under net prior service cost or credit, the unrecognised net actuarial gain or loss certain of the Groups share option plans are classified as liabilities until and the unrecognised net transition asset or obligation.
An additional such time as they vest when they are reclassified as equity-settled.
liability was recognised to the extent that the accumulated benefit obligation the projected benefit obligation without allowance for future salary increases exceeded the fair value of the plan assets.
Where an additional minimum liability was recognised, an intangible asset was recognised up to the amount of any unrecognised prior service cost and any unrecognised transition obligation.
Any amount not recognised as an intangible asset was reported in other comprehensive income.
150 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements IFRS US GAAP ix Derivatives and hedge accounting xi Loss on disposal of discontinued operations Under IFRS, prior to January 2, 2005, derivative financial instruments Differences between the gain or loss recognised on the disposal were not generally recognised as assets and liabilities on the balance of a business under IFRS and that recognised under US GAAP arise sheet and gains or losses arising on them were not recognised until principally because of differences in the carrying values of the assets the hedged item was itself recognised in the financial statements.
and liabilities of the business and, if the business was previously From January 2, 2005 onwards, derivative financial instruments are acquired, due to differences in the carrying amount of goodwill recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the recognised in respect of the business and or, if the business is a balance sheet date and, in the absence of hedge accounting, changes foreign operation, due to differences in the cumulative currency in their fair values are reflected immediately in the Groups profit for translation differences that are recycled to the income statement the period.
The Group does not generally apply hedge accounting to on disposal of the business.
transactional foreign currency hedging relationships.
It does, however, During fiscal 2006, the loss recognised on the planned disposal apply hedge accounting to translational foreign currency hedging of the Groups Wiper Systems business segment was 86.6 million relationships and to hedges of its interest rate exposures where it is higher under US GAAP than under IFRS, principally due to the permissible to do so under IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition recognition of an additional impairment loss of 85.0 million in and Measurement.
relation to goodwill that was recognised under US GAAP but was Under US GAAP, derivative financial instruments are recognised as not recognised under IFRS.
assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet C. Presentational differences date and, in the absence of hedge accounting, changes in their fair i Discontinued operations values are reflected immediately in the Groups net income.
Prior to Under IFRS, an operation is classified as discontinued if it has been 2005, the Group chose not to apply hedge accounting but, thereafter, sold or is classified as held for sale at the balance sheet date, and itself it has applied hedge accounting to translational hedging relationships represents, or its sale is part of a single plan to dispose of, a separate where it is permissible to do so under SFAS133 Accounting for major line of business or geographical area of operations.
Under US Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.
While the Group GAAP, discontinued operations include all components of the Groups achieves hedge accounting under US GAAP for those hedges of its businesses that have identifiable operations and cash flows and have interest rate exposures that qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS, been sold or are classified as held for sale at the balance sheet date.
it is not possible for it to achieve hedge accounting under US GAAP for certain translational foreign currency hedging relationships that ii Statement of cash flows qualify for hedge accounting as net investment hedges under IFRS.
Under IFRS, cash flow represents increases or decreases in cash and cash equivalents, which comprise cash in hand, deposits available x Preference shares on demand and other short-term highly liquid investments with a Under IFRS, prior to January 2, 2005, the US dollar denominated maturity on acquisition of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
5.56% convertible cumulative preference shares the preference Under US GAAP, cash flow is as defined under IFRS, except it excludes shares were classified as non-equity shareholders funds and were increases or decreases in bank overdrafts.
translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at their date of issue.
Dividends payable on the preference shares were treated as Under IFRS, dividends received from associates have been classified an appropriation of profit.
as cash flows from investing activities whereas under US GAAP they are classified as cash flows from operating activities.
From January 2, 2005 onwards, the preference shares are classified as non-current liabilities and are retranslated into sterling at the exchange Under IFRS, interest received is included within cash flows from rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The preference shares have been investing activities and interest paid is included within cash flows designated as a net investment hedge and, to the extent the hedge is from financing activities whereas under US GAAP both are included effective, currency translation differences are recognised directly in within cash flows from operating activities.
Dividends payable on the preference shares are included within interest payable.
Under US GAAP, the preference shares are classified as shareholders equity.
Dividends payable on the preference shares are treated as an appropriation of shareholders equity.
