Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS For the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2006 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Topps Tiles Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 24.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the business review on pages 11 to 15.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS2 IFRIC 9 Re-Assessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain properties and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Topps Tiles Plcs consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP until 1st October 2005.
A transitional document was published in January 2006 detailing impact of IFRS in accordance with IFRS 1 and the comparative figures in respect of 2005 are restated to reflect these adjustments.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 31.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulations.
The rules for first time adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS 1.
In general a company is required to define its IFRS accounting policies and apply these retrospectively to determine its opening balance sheet under IFRS.
The standard allows a number of optional exemptions to this general principle.
The Group has made the following elections under IFRS 1: Not to account under IFRS 3 for Business Combinations prior to 24 February 2004 Not to measure items of property, plant and equipment at fair value at the date of transition to IFRS, but to use UK GAAP values at that date To take up the exemption related to financial instruments IAS 32 & 39 that allows it not to present comparative information in compliance with those standards, but will continue to comply with UK GAAP in this respect To only apply the provisions of IFRS 2 to equity instruments issued after 7 November 2002 b Basis of consolidation The statutory Group income statement and balance sheet consolidate the financial statements of Topps Tiles Plc and its subsidiary undertakings made up to 30 September 2006.
In all other cases, subsidiary undertakings have been accounted for using acquisition accounting principles and incorporate the results of the Groups joint venture undertaking.
The Group accounts for its own share of assets, liabilities and cash flows associated with this joint venture.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passed.
