Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS For the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2006 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Topps Tiles Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 24.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the business review on pages 11 to 15.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS2 IFRIC 9 Re-Assessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain properties and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Topps Tiles Plcs consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP until 1st October 2005.
A transitional document was published in January 2006 detailing impact of IFRS in accordance with IFRS 1 and the comparative figures in respect of 2005 are restated to reflect these adjustments.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 31.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulations.
The rules for first time adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS 1.
In general a company is required to define its IFRS accounting policies and apply these retrospectively to determine its opening balance sheet under IFRS.
The standard allows a number of optional exemptions to this general principle.
The Group has made the following elections under IFRS 1: Not to account under IFRS 3 for Business Combinations prior to 24 February 2004 Not to measure items of property, plant and equipment at fair value at the date of transition to IFRS, but to use UK GAAP values at that date To take up the exemption related to financial instruments IAS 32 & 39 that allows it not to present comparative information in compliance with those standards, but will continue to comply with UK GAAP in this respect To only apply the provisions of IFRS 2 to equity instruments issued after 7 November 2002 b Basis of consolidation The statutory Group income statement and balance sheet consolidate the financial statements of Topps Tiles Plc and its subsidiary undertakings made up to 30 September 2006.
In all other cases, subsidiary undertakings have been accounted for using acquisition accounting principles and incorporate the results of the Groups joint venture undertaking.
The Group accounts for its own share of assets, liabilities and cash flows associated with this joint venture.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passed.
39 Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS continued For the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2006 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued c Financial period The accounting period ends on the Saturday which falls closest to 30 September, resulting in financial periods of either 52 or 53 weeks.
Throughout the financial statements, directors report and financial review, references to 2006 mean at 30 September 2006 or the 52 weeks then ended: references to 2005 mean at 1 October 2005 or the 52 weeks then ended.
d Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill of 15,080,000 written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
e Revenue Recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when title has passed.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
f Property, plant & equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, less estimated residual value, over their estimated useful lives, on the following bases: Freehold buildings - 2% per annum on cost on a straight-line basis Short leasehold land and buildings - over the period of the lease, up to 25 years Fixtures and fittings - over 10 years or at 25% per annum on reducing balance basis as appropriate Motor vehicles - 25% per annum on reducing balance Freehold land is not depreciated.
Residual value is calculated on prices prevailing at the date of acquisition.
40 Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued g Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and relates solely to finished goods for resale.
Cost comprises purchase price of materials and an attributable proportion of distribution overheads based on normal levels of activity and is valued at standard cost.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and costs to be incurred marketing, selling and distribution.
Provision is made for those items of inventory where the net realisable value is estimated to be lower than cost.
Net realisable value is based on both historic experience and assumptions regarding future selling values, and is consequently a source of estimation uncertainty.
h Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, and interests in jointly controlled entities, except where the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
i Foreign currency In preparing the financial statements of individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of transactions.
At each period end, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on that date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
41 Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS continued For the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2006 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued i Foreign currency continued Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups joint venture operation are translated at exchange rates prevailing at period end dates.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during the period, in which case the exchange rates at the dates of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such differences are recognised as income or expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts see below for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
j Leases Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are similarly spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
k Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
l Retirement benefit costs For defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the income statement in respect of pension costs is the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
m Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging share buy back costs and after share of results of joint ventures but before investment income and finance costs.
n Finance costs Finance costs of debt are recognised in the income statement over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction of tangible fixed assets are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
The commencement of capitalisation begins when both finance costs and expenditures for the asset are being incurred and activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are complete.
42 Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued o Investments in Jointly Controlled Entities A jointly controlled entity is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The results and assets and liabilities of jointly controlled entities are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments are carried in the balance sheet at cost adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the jointly controlled entity, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Where a Group company transacts with a jointly controlled entity of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant jointly controlled entity.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
p Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors, on the use of financial derivatives.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains or losses reported in the income statement.
q Bank Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
r Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
s Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 will be applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity settled share based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the share based payment is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black Scholes model.
The Group provides employees with the ability to purchase the Groups ordinary shares at 80% of the current market value through the operation of its share save scheme.
The Group records an expense, based on its estimate of the 20% discount related to shares expected to vest on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
