Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT - COMPANY ACCOUNTS TO THE MEMBERS OF TOPPS TILES PLC We have audited the individual Company financial statements of Topps Tiles Plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2006 which comprise the balance sheet and the related notes numbered 1 to 9.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Topps Tiles Plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS As described in the statement of directors' responsibilities the Company's Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our responsibility is to audit the individual Company financial statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the information given in the directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
We also report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above period and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
OPINION In our opinion: the individual Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company's affairs as at 30 September 2006: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the directors report is consistent with the individual Company financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Manchester 28 November 2006 62
