70306 ACCOUNTS 26 3 07 12:07 Page 104 NO TICE OF ANNU AL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the forty-third Annual General Meeting of Travis Perkins plc will be held at Northampton Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5BG on Tuesday 15 May 2007 at 11.45 a. m. The Resolutions Resolutions 1 to 11 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
Resolutions 12 to 14 inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive the Companys annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006, together with the directors report, the directors remuneration report and the auditors report on those accounts and on the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
To declare a final dividend for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 of 25.3 pence per ordinary share, payable to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 April 2007.
To appoint, as a non-executive director, pursuant to Article 71 of the Companys Articles of Association, Stephen Carter who was appointed as a non-executive director by the Board on 24 April 2006.
Biographical details of Stephen Carter appear on page 41.
To re-appoint John Carter as a director, who is retiring by rotation pursuant to Article 76 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details of John Carter appear on page 40.
To re-appoint John Coleman as a non-executive director, who is retiring by rotation pursuant to Article 76 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details of John Coleman appear on page 41.
To reappoint Michael Dearden as a non-executive director, who is retiring by rotation pursuant to Article 76 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details of Michael Dearden appear on page 41.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP, Chartered Accountants, as auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
That the directors remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 set out on pages 47 to 54 be approved.
That the amendments to the rules of the Travis Perkins Share Matching Scheme the Matching Scheme, the effect of which is explained in the letter from the Chairman to shareholders dated 5 March 2007, and which are included in the draft produced to this meeting which, for the purposes of identification, is initialled by the Chairman, be and are hereby approved and the Directors be authorised to: a do all such acts and things as they may consider appropriate to implement the Matching Scheme, as amended: and b establish further plans based on the Matching Scheme, as amended, but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans shall be treated as counting against the limits on individual or overall participation in the Matching Scheme.
104 70306 ACCOUNTS 26 3 07 12:07 Page 105 NO TICE OF ANNU AL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 10.
That the rules of the Travis Perkins 2007 Performance Share Plan the Performance Share Plan, the principal terms of which are summarised in the letter from the Chairman to shareholders dated 5 March 2007 and which are included in the draft produced to this meeting which, for the purposes of identification is initialled by the Chairman, be and are hereby approved and the Directors be authorised to: a do all such other acts and things as they may consider appropriate to implement the Performance Share Plan: and b establish further plans based on the Performance Share Plan but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans shall be treated as counting against the limits on individual or overall participation in the Performance Share Plan.
That, in substitution for all existing unexercised authorities, the authority conferred on the Directors to allot relevant securities by Article 4 B of the Companys Articles of Association be and is hereby renewed for the period expiring fifteen months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting and for that period the section 80 amount is 1,288,449.20.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 11, and in substitution for all existing unexercised authorities, the power conferred on the Directors to allot equity securities wholly for cash on a non-prescriptive basis by Article 4 C of the Companys Articles of Association be and is hereby renewed for the period expiring fifteen months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and for that period the section 89 amount is 610,557.54.
That the amendments to the Companys Articles of Association set out in the document presented to the meeting, and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification only, be and are hereby approved.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 12,211,550 representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 5 March 2007 : b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is its nominal value of 10 pence: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased: d this authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date fifteen months from the date of passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of such authority, which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
By order of the Board, Andrew Pike Secretary Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG.
5 March 2007 Registered in England No.
824821 Directions to Northampton Rugby Football Club can be found on page 107.
