70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:42 Page 60 ST A TEMENT OF DIRECT ORS RESPONSIBILITIES For the year ended 31 December 2006 The Directors are responsible for applicable International Financial preparing the Annual Report, Directors Reporting Standards.
Directors are also Remuneration Report and the financial required to: statements in accordance with properly select and apply accounting applicable law and regulations.
policies: Company law requires the Directors present information, including to prepare financial statements for accounting policies, in a manner each financial year.
The Directors are that provides relevant, reliable, required by the IAS Regulation to comparable and understandable prepare the Group financial statements information: and under International Financial provide additional disclosures when Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted compliance with the specific by the European Union and have also requirements in IFRS is insufficient to elected to prepare the Parent Company enable users to understand the financial statements in accordance impact of particular transactions, with IFRS as adopted by the European other events and conditions in the Union.
The financial statements are entitys financial position and also required by law to be properly financial performance.
prepared in accordance with the The Directors are responsible for Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of keeping proper accounting records that the IAS Regulations.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at International Accounting Standard 1 any time the financial position of the requires that financial statements Company, for safeguarding the assets, present fairly for each financial year for taking reasonable steps for the the Companys financial position, prevention and detection of fraud and financial performance and cash flows.
other irregularities and for the This requires the faithful preparation of a directors report and representation of the effects of directors remuneration report and transactions, other events and enhanced business review that comply conditions in accordance with the with the requirements of the definitions and recognition criteria for Companies Act 1985. assets, liabilities, income and expenses The Directors are responsible for the set out in the International Accounting maintenance and integrity of the Standards Boards Framework for the Company website.
Legislation in the preparation and Presentation of United Kingdom governing the Financial Statements.
In virtually all preparation and dissemination of circumstances, a fair presentation will financial statements may differ from be achieved by compliance with all legislation in other jurisdictions.
60 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:42 Page 61 ST A TEMENT OF DIRECT ORS RESPONSIBILITIES Rob Castle, Assistant Manager, Travis Perkins, Wreningham Russ Pittingale, Manager, CCF East London Sylvia Spray, Cleaner, Wickes, Halesowen Ian Kirkby, Driver and Andy McDonald, Fork-lift Driver now plumbing counter sales assistant, Travis Perkins, Ulverston 61
