70306 ACCOUNTS 26 3 07 12:07 Page 69 NO TES T O THE FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies adopted in preparing the financial statements are set out below.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised when goods or services are received by the customer and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to them.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and value added tax.
Business combinations and goodwill All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of an acquisition represents the cash value of the consideration and or the fair value of the shares issued on the date the offer became unconditional, plus expenses.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
It is this fair value, which is incorporated into the consolidated accounts.
Goodwill arising on acquisition represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the share of the aggregate fair value of identifiable net assets including intangible assets of a business or a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
All material intangible fixed assets obtained on acquisition have been recognised separately in the financial statements.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset and allocated to cash generating units, then at least annually, is reviewed for impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed, as such, goodwill is stated in the balance sheet at cost less any provisions for impairment in value.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets Intangible assets identified as part of the assets of an acquired business are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets are amortised to the income statement on a straight-line basis over a maximum of 20 years except where they are considered to have an indefinite useful life.
In the latter instance they are reviewed annually for impairment.
Investment properties Investment properties, which are held to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, are stated at deemed cost less depreciation.
Properties are depreciated to their estimated residual value on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, up to a maximum of 50 years.
Rental income from investment property is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Non current assets held for sale Non current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Assets are depreciated to their estimated residual value on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Buildings 50 years or if lower, the estimated useful life of the building or the life of the lease Plant and equipment 4 to 10 years Land is not depreciated Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds net of expenses and the carrying amount of the asset in the balance sheet and is recognised in the income statement.
Where appropriate, the attributable revaluation reserve remaining in respect of properties revalued prior to the adoption of IFRS is transferred directly to accumulated profits.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rental payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Reverse lease premia and other incentives receivable for entering into a lease agreement are recognised in the income statement over the life of the lease.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill The carrying amounts of the Groups tangible and intangible assets other than investment properties, deferred tax assets and inventories are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such an indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and compared to its carrying value.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
Where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount a provision for the impairment loss is established with a charge being made to the income statement.
For intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life the recoverable amount is estimated at each annual balance sheet date.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGU are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Inventories Inventories, which consist of goods for resale, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less the estimated costs of disposal.
Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are measured at amortised cost which is carrying amount less provision for irrecoverable amounts.
Allowances for the estimated irrecoverable amounts are made in the income statement when the receivable is considered to be uncollectable.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank and other borrowings Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts and other loans are recognised in the balance sheet at amortised cost.
Costs associated with arranging a bank facility are recognised in the income statement over the life of the facility.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Trade payables Trade payables are measured at amortised cost.
Foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates ruling on the date of the transaction.
At the consolidated balance sheet date, unhedged monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks arising from financing activities.
The Group does not enter into speculative financial instruments.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is the estimated amount the Group would receive or pay to terminate the derivative at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest and exchange rates and the current creditworthiness of the counterparties.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, that are designated and effective as hedges of the future variability of cash flows, are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value of a hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the income statement.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the income statement as they arise.
Derivatives embedded in commercial contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the underlying contracts, with unrealised gains or losses being reported in the income statement.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and the deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items which are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
This is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits For defined benefit schemes, operating profit is charged with the cost of providing pension benefits earned by employees in the period.
The expected return on pension scheme assets less the interest on pension scheme liabilities is shown as a finance cost within the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the period from the difference between actual and expected returns on pension scheme assets, experience gains and losses on pension scheme liabilities and the effects of changes in demographics and financial assumptions are included in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Recoverable pension scheme surpluses and pension scheme deficits and the associated deferred tax balances are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are included in the balance sheet.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Employee share incentive plans The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees long term incentives, executive share options and Save As You Earn, which do not include market related conditions.
These payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant by the use of the Black Scholes option-pricing model taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The cost of equity-settled awards is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
