70306 ACCOUNTS 26 3 07 12:07 Page 106 NO TES T O THE NO TICE OF ANNU AL GENERAL MEETING 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such authority must be returned by post to the Proxy Processing Centre, Telford Road, Bicester, OX26 4LD, or may be delivered by courier or by hand to the offices of the Companys Registrar, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held at Northampton Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton NN5 5BG at 11.45 a. m. on 15 May 2007 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors and voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In each case the proxy appointments must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
The appointment of a proxy does not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person, in which case any votes of the proxy will be superseded.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those members entered on the register of members of the Company as at 11.45 a. m. on 13 May 2007 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
The register referred to in note 2 means the issuer register of members and the Operator register of members maintained in accordance with Regulation 20 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded from the date of this Notice to the date of the meeting and at Northampton Rugby Football Club from 11.15 a. m. on the day of the meeting until the conclusion of the meeting.
5.1 Copies of contracts of service of directors and non-executive directors, letters of appointment with the Company, or with any of its subsidiary companies.
5.2 The register of directors interests kept by the Company.
5.3 A copy of article 147 of the Companys existing Articles of Association, which sets out the directors and officers indemnity entitlements.
5.4 A statement giving particulars of directors relevant transactions.
5.5 The proposed new Articles of Association of the Company.
Copies of the draft rules of the Travis Perkins 2007 Performance Share Plan and of the Travis Perkins plc Share Matching Scheme as marked with the proposed amendments will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company and at New Bridge Street Consultants LLP at 20 Little Britain, London EC1A 7DH during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted until the close of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
