70306 ACCOUNTS 26 3 07 12:07 Page 72 NO TES T O THE FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Equity instruments and own shares The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share Based Payments.
In accordance with transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
Equity instruments represent the ordinary share capital of the Group and are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental issue costs.
Consideration paid by the Group for its own shares is deducted from total shareholder equity.
Where such shares vest to employees under the terms of the Groups share options or the Groups share saving schemes or are sold, any consideration received is included in shareholders equity.
Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the period end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS The Audit Committee has been party to discussions about the development, selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and about their actual application.
The key estimates made by management are detailed below: Goodwill In testing for impairment, management have made certain assumptions concerning the future development of the business that are consistent with its annual budget and three-year plan.
Should these assumptions regarding the growth in profitability be unfounded then it is possible that goodwill included in the balance sheet could be impaired.
Management are confident that this is not the case.
Pension liabilities The Group has chosen to adopt assumptions that are more conservative than average, particularly in respect of longevity.
If the future return on equities is lower than anticipated, or if the difference between actual inflation and the actual increase in pensionable salaries is greater than that assumed, or if the average life expectancy of pensioners increases, then the pension deficit would be greater than currently stated in the balance sheet.
Property leases The Group is party to a number of leases on properties that are no longer required for trading.
Whilst every effort is made to profitably sub-let these properties, it is not always possible.
Where a lease is onerous to the Group, a provision is established for the difference between amounts contractually payable to the landlord and amounts contractually receivable from the tenant if any for the period up until the point it is judged that the lease will no longer be onerous.
Management believe that their estimates, which are based upon the current state of the UK property market are appropriate.
However, it is possible that it may take longer to dispose of leases than they anticipate.
As a result the provisions may be understated, but in the opinion of the Directors this is unlikely to be material.
Insurance provisions The Group has been substantially self-insured since 2001.
The nature of insurance claims is that they frequently take many years to fully crystalise, therefore the Directors have to estimate the value of provisions to hold in the balance sheet in respect of historic claims.
Under the guidance of the Groups insurance advisors, the value of incurred claims is estimated using the Generalised Cape Cod Method.
The provision is determined by deducting the value of claims settled to date from the estimated level of claims incurred.
Whilst the Generalised Cape Cod Method is an insurance industry standard methodology, it relies on historic trends to determine the level of expected claims.
To the extent that the estimates are inaccurate the Group may be underprovided, but in the opinion of the Directors any under-provision is unlikely to be material.
