70306 ACCOUNTS 26 3 07 12:07 Page 68 NO TES T O THE FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2006 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Overview Travis Perkins plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 108.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Chief Executives review, the Chief Operating Officers review and the Finance Directors report on pages 12 to 37.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost basis, except that derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group from the date control commences until the date that control ceases.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
As such, the results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not yet been applied in these financial statements were in issue, but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRS 8 Operating segments IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29 reporting in hyper-inflationary economies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives IFRIC 10 Interim reporting and impairment IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 group and treasury share transactions IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements The Directors anticipate that adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except for the additional disclosures required by IFRS 7 in respect of financial instruments, when the relevant Standard comes into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
