Shareholder information Shareholder enquiries Electronic communication All enquiries concerning shareholdings including notification of Shareholders have the option to receive shareholder communications change of address, loss of a share certificate or dividend payments including annual reports, interim reports and notices of meetings should be made to the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor electronically.
To register for this service, shareholders should log Services Ireland Limited whose contact details are as follows: into the Computershare website www.
com and follow the instructions.
Once registered, shareholders will be emailed when Computershare Investor Services Ireland Ltd an Annual Report, Interim Report or Notice of Meeting is available Heron House for viewing on the Tullow Oil website.
Corrig Road Sandyford Industrial Estate Shareholders have been asked to approve the passing of a resolution Dublin 18 at the 2007 AGM to allow the Company to take advantage of the new Ireland electronic communication provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006.
If this resolution is passed and the Company subsequently email: webqueries@computershare.
ie decides to utilise the provisions, this would allow the default method of communication to switch from paper form hard copy to website Telephone number UK shareholders: 0870 703 6242 communication with a positive opt-in required for hard copy.
Telephone number Irish shareholders: 01 2163744 Telephone number Other shareholders: 0044 870 703 6242 As only those shareholders who want to receive hard copy will opt-in, this is expected to result in cost savings for the Company through A range of shareholder frequently asked questions and practical reduced printing and mailing costs as well as the environmental help on transferring shares and updating details is available online benefits associated with the reduced use of paper.
in the Shareholder Services section located in the Investors area of the Tullow website www.
com In the first instance, the Company is required to write to all shareholders explaining the new arrangements and offering the Computershare online enquiry service opportunity to elect to continue receiving documents by post.
Computershare provides a range of services through its free online shareholder enquiry service at www.
This service, Financial calendar accessible from anywhere in the world, enables shareholders to check Financial year end 31 December 2006 details of their shareholdings or dividends, download forms to notify Results announced 21 March 2007 changes in personal details and, access other relevant information.
Annual General Meeting 30 May 2007 2007 Interim results announced September 2007 Payment of dividends Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into a UK sterling Dividend payments or Irish euro bank account and have the tax voucher sent directly 2006 Final dividend payable 6 June 2007 to their registered address.
Please contact Computershare for 2007 Interim dividend payable November 2007 a dividend mandate form or download a dividend mandate form from Computershares online enquiry service detailed above.
Overseas shareholders should note that Computershare, in conjunction with Citibank, are launching a service, the Global Payments Service, which will enable overseas shareholders to receive their dividend in a range of foreign currencies.
The service is expected to be launched during April 2007.
At that time, details of the service will be made available in the Shareholder Service section of the Investors area of the Tullow website www.
Share dealing service A telephone share dealing service has been established for shareholders with Computershare for the sale and purchase of Tullow Oil shares.
Shareholders who are interested in using this services can obtain further details by calling the appropriate telephone number below: UK shareholders: 0870 703 0084 Irish shareholders: 1890 924 995 Other shareholders 0044 141 270 3203 Further details on the terms applying to the service can also be obtained from the Shareholder Services section of the Investors area of the Tullow website www.
com Kindly note, this service cannot be offered to residents of any territories where such offers are not permitted by local securities regulations or other regulatory requirements.
It is the responsibility of shareholders outside the European Union who wish to use this service to ensure compliance with local law and regulatory requirements.
If you are in any doubt you should consult an appropriate professional advisor.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 97
