Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Company and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial and regulations.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected to prepare the Company only financial statements in The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other view of the state of affairs of the Company and of its profit or loss irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Report and for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements Directors are required to: of the Companies Act 1985. select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Group make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been IFRS.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and explained in the financial statements: and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, continue in business.
financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: select and apply accounting policies properly: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient: and enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
52 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
