Financial Statements continued Further statutory and other information Unilever PLC Employee involvement and communication To the best of each of the Directors knowledge and belief, and Unilevers UK companies maintain formal processes to inform, consult having made appropriate enquiries of other ofcers of the Unilever and involve employees and their representatives.
Most of the United Group, all information relevant to enabling the auditors to provide Kingdom sites are accredited to the Investors in People standard.
Our their opinions on PLCs consolidated and parent company accounts sites also use tools such as Total Productive Maintenance which rely has been provided.
Each of the Directors has taken all reasonable heavily on employee involvement, contribution and commitment.
steps to ensure their awareness of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of any such A European Works Council, embracing employee and management information.
representatives from countries within Europe, has been in existence for several years and provides a forum for discussing issues that Authority to purchase own shares extend across national boundaries.
At the Annual General Meeting of PLC held on 9 May 2006, authority was given pursuant to Article 64 of the PLC Articles of Association to 1 The directors reports of the United Kingdom group companies make market purchases of PLC ordinary shares of 3 9p each, to a contain more details about how they have communicated with their maximum of 290 million shares.
This authority will expire at the employees during 2006.
Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2007, and a resolution will be proposed to renew the authority.
Equal opportunities and diversity The heads of all operating companies and units in the UK have Details of shares purchased by an employee share trust and Unilever committed their businesses to achieving greater diversity.
Every group companies to satisfy options granted under PLCs employee Unilever company in the United Kingdom has an equal opportunities share schemes are given in the report of the Remuneration policy and actively pursues equality of opportunity for all employees.
Committee on page 60 and in note 29 to the consolidated accounts on pages 117 to 121.
The company carries out an annual employee monitoring survey and has also conducted an equal pay audit.
The company continues to Directors report of PLC review ways in which greater diversity can be achieved in recruitment For the purposes of Section 234 of the Companies Act 1985, the and selection.
Directors Report of Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2006 comprises this page and the information contained in the report The company continues to put in place policies which promote the of the Directors on pages 5 to 64 which includes the Companys achievement of diversity in the business.
We have policies on home position on environment and corporate responsibility matters, the working, exible working, maternity and paternity leave, child care report of the Remuneration Committee in respect of Directors provision and career breaks, which help us to meet this objective.
interests in shares or debentures of the Group on pages 60 and 62, Dividends on page 145, Principal group companies and non-current Charitable and other contributions investments on pages 129 and 130, and significant shareholders Unilever collates the cost of its community involvement activities using of PLC as disclosed on page 141. the London Benchmarking Group model.
The model recommends the separation of charitable donations, community investment, In accordance with Section 463 of the United Kingdom Companies commercial initiatives in the community and management costs Act 2006, the Directors responsibility for the Directors report and the relating to the programme of activity.
report of the Remuneration Committee, which responsibility shall be governed by English law, shall be owed only to PLC to the extent During 2006 UK group companies made a total contribution of envisaged in Section 463 and not to any other person.
7.4 million, analysed as follows: Corporate Centre Charitable donations: 1.6 million Unilever PLC Community investment: 1.3 million PO Box 68 Commercial initiatives in the community: 3.6 million Unilever House Management costs: 0.9 million 100 Victoria Embankment London EC4P 4BQ No donation or contribution was made or expenditure incurred for political purposes.
Unilever PLC Registered Ofce Port Sunlight Supplier payment policies Wirral Individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing the Merseyside CH62 4ZD terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
The directors reports of the United Kingdom Unilever PLC Registrars operating companies give information about their supplier payment Computershare Investor Services PLC policies as required by the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
PO Box 82 PLC, as a holding company, does not itself make any relevant The Pavilions payments in this respect.
Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors A resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2007 for the re-appointment of  LLP as auditors of PLC.
The present appointment will end at the By Order of the Board conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
J A A van der Bijl S G Williams Joint Secretaries of Unilever PLC 6 March 2007 140 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006
