Financial Statements continued Company accounts Auditors report Unilever N. V. Independent auditors report to the shareholders of The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, Unilever N. V. including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the company accounts, whether due to fraud or error.
In making Report on the company accounts those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control We have audited the company accounts of Unilever N. V. relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the Rotterdam, for the year ended 31 December 2006 which company accounts in order to design audit procedures that are comprise the balance sheet, income statement and the related appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of notes on pages 132 to 134.
These company accounts have been expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting We have reported separately on the consolidated accounts of the estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall Unilever Group for the year ended 31 December 2006. presentation of the company accounts.
Directors responsibility We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient The Directors are responsible for the preparation and fair and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
presentation of the company accounts in accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Opinion Netherlands Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report In our opinion, the company accounts give a true and fair view of the Directors in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the of the financial position of Unilever N. V. as at 31 December 2006, Netherlands Civil Code.
This responsibility includes: designing, and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the United Kingdom accounting standards and with Part 9 of Book 2 preparation and fair presentation of the company accounts that of the Netherlands Civil Code.
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: Report on other legal and regulatory requirements and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in Pursuant to the legal requirement under 2:393 sub 5 part e the circumstances.
of the Netherlands Civil Code, we report, to the extent of our competence, that the Report of the Directors is consistent Auditors responsibility with the company accounts as required by 2:391 sub 4 of Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company the Netherlands Civil Code.
accounts based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law.
This law requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to Rotterdam, The Netherlands, 6 March 2007 obtain reasonable assurance whether the company accounts  Accountants N. V. are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the company accounts.
Prof Dr J A van Manen RA Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 131
