Financial Statements continued Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group 1 Accounting information and policies The accounting policies adopted are essentially the same as those In addition, the Group has applied the following changes in which applied for the previous financial year.
Changes arising from presentation of the financial statements: interpretations or amendments of applicable accounting standards are set out below under the heading of Companies legislation and Within the income statement, costs and revenues relating accounting standards.
to restructuring, business disposals and impairments are shown separately: Unilever The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group Within the balance sheet, current tax assets were previously shown companies, operate as a single economic entity the Unilever Group, net within current tax liabilities.
These are now reported separately also referred to as Unilever or the Group.
NV and PLC have the same on a gross basis: and Directors and are linked by a series of agreements, including an Equalisation Agreement, which are designed so that the position of Secondary reporting segments are presented in four reporting the shareholders of both companies is as nearly as possible the same segments, as opposed to six reporting segments in 2005.
Further as if they held shares in a single company.
information is provided on page 81.
The Equalisation Agreement provides that both companies adopt Foreign currencies the same accounting principles and requires as a general rule Items included in the financial statements of group companies are the dividends and other rights and benets including rights on measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in liquidation attaching to each 0.16 nominal of ordinary share capital which each entity operates its functional currency.
The consolidated of NV to be equal in value at the relevant rate of exchange to the financial statements are presented in euros.
The functional currencies 1 dividends and other rights and benets attaching to each 3 9p of NV and PLC are euros and sterling respectively.
nominal of ordinary share capital of PLC, as if each such unit of capital formed part of the ordinary capital of one and the same Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional company.
For additional information please refer to Corporate currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the governance on page 39. transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end Basis of consolidation exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Due to the operational and contractual arrangements referred to foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except above, NV and PLC form a single reporting entity for the purposes when deferred in equity as qualifying hedges.
Those arising on trading of presenting consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts of transactions are taken to operating profit: those arising on cash, Unilever are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective financial assets and borrowings are classied as finance income or cost.
Group companies included in the consolidation are those companies controlled by NV or PLC.
Control exists when the In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the income Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of statement, the cash ow statement and all other movements in assets an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
and liabilities are translated at annual average rates of exchange.
The balance sheet, other than the ordinary share capital of NV and The net assets and results of acquired businesses are included in the PLC, is translated at year-end rates of exchange.
In the case of hyperconsolidated accounts from their respective dates of acquisition, being inationary economies, which are those in which ination exceeds the date on which the Group obtains control.
The results of disposed 100% cumulatively over a three-year period, the accounts are businesses are included in the consolidated accounts up to their date adjusted to reect current price levels and remove the inuences of disposal, being the date control ceases.
of ination before being translated.
Companies legislation and accounting standards The ordinary share capital of NV and PLC is translated in accordance The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with with the Equalisation Agreement.
The difference between the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by resulting value for PLC and the value derived by applying the year-end the EU, including interpretations from the International Financial rate of exchange is taken to other reserves see note 23 on page 110.
Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and the Standing Interpretations Committee SIC, and with Book 2 of the Civil Code The effects of exchange rate changes during the year on net in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985. assets at the beginning of the year are recorded as a movement in shareholders equity, as is the difference between profit of the year The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention unless retained at average rates of exchange and at year-end rates of otherwise indicated.
For these purposes net assets include loans between group companies and related foreign exchange contracts, if any, for which The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable previous financial year except that the Group has adopted the future.
Exchange gains losses on hedges of net assets are also following IFRIC interpretations with effect from 1 January 2006. recorded as a movement in equity.
Adoption of these interpretations did not have a material effect on the financial statements of the Group.
Cumulative exchange differences arising since the transition date of 1 January 2004 are reported as a separate component of other IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease, reserves see note 23 on page 110.
In the event of disposal or part provides guidance in determining whether arrangements contain disposal of an interest in a group company either through sale or as a lease to which lease accounting must be applied.
a result of a repayment of capital, the cumulative exchange difference is recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests Arising from Decommissioning, on disposal of group companies.
Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds, establishes the accounting treatment for funds established to help finance Business Combinations decommissioning for a companys assets.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition accounting method.
This involves recognising identiable assets The Group also applied the amendment to IAS 39 Financial and liabilities of the acquired business at fair value.
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts which requires that financial guarantee contracts are Acquisitions of minority interests are accounted for using the parent accounted for as financial instruments, initially recognised at fair value.
entity method, whereby the difference between the consideration As the Group has no material external financial guarantees, the and the book value of the share of the net assets acquired is recognised amendment did not have a material effect on the financial statements.
74 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial Statements continued Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group 1 Accounting information and policies continued Goodwill Financial instruments Goodwill being the difference between the fair value of consideration Financial instruments are recognised when the Group becomes party paid for new interests in group companies, joint ventures and to the contract.
They are initially measured at fair value the transaction associates and the fair value of the Groups share of their net price adjusted, in the case of instruments not classied as fair value identiable assets and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition through profit or loss, by directly attributable transaction costs.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is subject to an annual review for impairment or more frequently if necessary.
Any Financial assets impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises.
Market purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised using settlement date accounting.
Financial assets, other than those which For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a are financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, are initially business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Any of the Groups cash generating units, or groups of cash generating impairment of a financial asset is charged to the income statement as units, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the it arises.
combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquired business are assigned to those units or group of units.
Each Financial assets are classied according to the purpose for which unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the investments were acquired.
This gives rise to the following the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored categories: held-to-maturity investments, loans and receivables, for internal management purposes, and is not larger than a segment available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value based on either the Groups primary or the Groups secondary through profit or loss.
Unilever determines the classication of its reporting format.
Intangible assets Held-to-maturity investments On acquisition of group companies, Unilever recognises any Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with specically identiable intangible assets separately from goodwill, xed or determinable payments and xed maturities that management initially measuring the intangible assets at fair value.
Separately has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
They are purchased intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
Finite-lived included in non-current investments at amortised cost using the effective intangible assets mainly comprise patented and non-patented interest method, less any amounts written off to reect impairment.
These assets are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis in the income statement over Loans and receivables the period of their expected useful lives, or the period of legal rights Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed if shorter, none of which exceeds ten years.
Periods in excess of five or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
years are used only where the Directors are satisfied that the life of They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly these assets will clearly exceed that period.
to a counterparty with no intention of trading the receivable.
Loans and receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the indefinite-lived intangibles are not amortised, but are subject to balance sheet at amortised cost.
Short-term loans and receivables are initially measured at original Unilever monitors the level of product development costs against invoice amount and subsequently measured after deducting any all the criteria set out in IAS 38.
These include the requirement to provision for impairment.
establish that a ow of economic benets is probable before costs are capitalised.
For Unilever this is evident only shortly before a product is Available-for-sale financial assets launched into the market.
The level of costs incurred after these Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets criteria have been met is currently insignicant.
that are either designated in this category or not classied in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless Property, plant and equipment management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation of the balance sheet date.
When securities classied as available-forand impairment.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments percentages of cost based on the expected average useful lives of the recognised in equity are included in the income statement as gains assets and their residual values.
Estimated useful lives by major class and losses from investment securities.
Interest on available-for-sale of assets are as follows: securities calculated using the effective interest rate method is recognised in the income statement as part of other income.
Freehold buildings 40 years Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised in no depreciation on freehold land the income statement as part of other income when the Groups right Leasehold buildings 40 years to receive payment is established.
Plant and equipment 220 years or life of lease if less than 40 years Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally for Property, plant and equipment is subject to review for impairment the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated.
Derivatives if triggering events or circumstances indicate that this is necessary.
are also classied in this category unless they are designated as Any impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises.
Assets in this category are classied as current assets if they are either held-for-trading or are expected to be realised within 12 Other non-current assets months of the balance sheet date.
Directly attributable transaction Joint ventures are undertakings in which the Group has an interest costs related to the purchase of the assets are expensed as incurred.
and which are jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the parties.
Associates are undertakings in which the Group has an income statement.
investment and can exercise significant inuence.
Interests in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method and are stated in the consolidated balance sheet at cost, adjusted for the movement in the Groups share of their net assets and liabilities.
The Groups share of the profit or loss after tax of joint ventures and associates is included in the Groups consolidated profit before taxation.
Biological assets are stated at fair value less estimated point-of-sale costs.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 75 Financial Statements continued Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group 1 Accounting information and policies continued Borrowings and other financial liabilities Valuation principles Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost For unlisted and for listed securities where the market for a financial unless they are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship: asset is not active the Group establishes fair value using valuation any difference between the amount on initial recognition and the techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the reference to other instruments that are substantially the same and period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Those discounted cash ow analysis.
borrowings that are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship are also recorded on an amortised cost basis, plus or minus the fair Impairment of financial instruments value attributable to the risk being hedged with a corresponding entry At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is in the income statement.
objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classied as  financial liabilities are measured at original invoice sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security amount.
Borrowing costs are not capitalised as part of property, below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are plant and equipment.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the Derivative financial instruments acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on Derivatives are measured on the balance sheet at fair value.
The that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed activities of the Group expose it primarily to the financial risks of from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swap not subsequently reversed through the income statement.
contracts and forward rate agreements to hedge these exposures.
The Group also uses commodity contracts to hedge future Inventories requirements for certain raw materials, almost always for physical Inventories are valued at the lower of weighted average cost and net delivery.
Those contracts that can also be settled in cash are treated realisable value.
Cost comprises direct costs and, where appropriate, as a financial instrument.
The Group does not use derivative financial a proportion of attributable production overheads.
The use of leveraged instruments is not permitted.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of preparation of the cash ow statement, cash and Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that cash equivalents includes cash at bank and in hand, highly liquid are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ows are interest bearing securities with original maturities of three months recognised directly in equity, and any ineffective portion is recognised or less, and bank overdrafts.
immediately in the income statement.
If the cash ow hedge of a rm commitment or forecasted transaction subsequently results in the Pensions and similar obligations recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, then, at the time the The operating and nancing costs of dened benefit plans are non-financial asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or recognised separately in the income statement.
Service costs are losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity systematically allocated over the service lives of employees, and are included in the initial measurement of the non-financial asset or nancing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
For hedged items that do not result in the recognition of a costs of individual events such as past service benefit enhancements, non-financial asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are settlements and curtailments are recognised immediately in the recognised in the income statement in the same period in which income statement.
Variations from expected costs, arising from the the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
experience of the plans or changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument no and expense.
The assets and liabilities of dened benefit plans longer qualies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet.
gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged The charges to the income statement for dened contribution plans transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain are the company contributions payable, and the assets and liabilities or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
of such plans are not included in the balance sheet of the Group.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value All dened benefit plans are subject to regular actuarial review using of recognised assets and liabilities, the hedged item is adjusted for the projected unit method, either by external consultants or by changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with actuaries employed by Unilever.
Group policy is that the most the corresponding entry in the income statement.
Gains or losses important plans, representing approximately 80% of the dened from re-measuring the derivative, or for non-derivatives the foreign benefit liabilities, are formally valued every year: other principal plans, currency component of its carrying amount, are recognised in the accounting for approximately a further 15% of liabilities, have their income statement.
Group policy for the remaining plans requires a full actuarial valuation at least every three years.
Asset Changes in fair value of net investment hedges in relation to foreign values for all plans are updated every year.
subsidiaries are recognised directly in equity.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when Taxation the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity.
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and of previous years.
characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
76 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial Statements continued Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group 1 Accounting information and policies continued Deferred taxation is recognised using the liability method on taxable Share-based payments temporary differences between the tax base and the accounting base The economic cost of awarding shares and share options to of items included in the balance sheet of the Group.
The following employees is reected by recording a charge in the income statement temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for equivalent to the fair value of the benefit awarded over the vesting tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect period.
The fair value is determined with reference to option pricing neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to models, principally adjusted Black-Scholes models or a multinomial investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not pricing model.
reverse in the forseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the Shares held by employee share trusts carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates prevailing at the The assets and liabilities of certain PLC trusts, NV and group year end unless future rates have been enacted or substantively enacted.
companies which purchase and hold NV and PLC shares to satisfy options granted are included in the consolidated accounts.
The A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable book value of shares held is deducted from other reserves, and trust that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can borrowings are included in the Groups borrowings.
The costs of the be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no trusts are included in the results of the Group.
These shares are longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
excluded from the calculation of earnings per share.
Provisions Assets held for sale Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive Assets and groups of assets and liabilities which comprise disposal obligation, as a result of a past event, exists at the balance sheet date groups are classied as held for sale when all of the following criteria and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
are met: a decision has been made to sell, the assets are available for sale immediately, the assets are being actively marketed, and a sale Segment information has been or is expected to be concluded within twelve months of Segmental information is provided on the basis of geographical the balance sheet date.
Assets and disposal groups held for sale segments and product categories.
The primary format, geographic are valued at the lower of book value or fair value less disposal regions, is based on the management structure of the Group, which costs.
Assets held for sale are not depreciated.
operates in three geographical regions.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Revenue recognition Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based Turnover comprises sales of goods and services after deduction of on historical experience and other factors, including expectations discounts and sales taxes.
It does not include sales between group of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the companies.
Discounts given by Unilever include rebates, price circumstances.
reductions and incentives given to customers, promotional couponing and trade communication costs.
The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions concerning the Turnover is recognised when the risks and rewards of the underlying future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by denition, seldom products and services have been substantially transferred to the equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that customer.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying are performed.
Interest revenue is recognised as interest accrues amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are using the effective interest method.
Research and market support costs Income statement presentation Expenditure on research and market support, such as advertising, On the face of the income statement, costs and revenues relating is charged to the income statement when incurred.
to restructuring, business disposals and impairments are disclosed.
In addition, individual items judged to be significant are disclosed Leases separately.
These are material in terms of nature and amount.
These Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease disclosures are given in order to provide additional information to help transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the users better understand financial performance.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
Impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets Assets held under finance leases are recognised as non-current assets Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill and intangible assets are of the Group at their fair value at the date of commencement of performed at least annually.
More regular reviews are performed if the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease events indicate that this is necessary.
Examples of such triggering payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in events would include a significant planned restructuring, a major the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are change in market conditions or technology, expectations of future apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease operating losses, or negative cash ows.
obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units are determined directly against income.
based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates.
Details A profit or loss is recognised on a sale and leaseback transaction of key assumptions made are set out in note 9 on page 89. based on the difference between sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset.
Where the transaction results in a finance lease, Retirement benets the profit or loss is deferred and amortised over the lease term.
Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in order Where the transaction results in an operating lease, any profit or to value our obligations and to determine the charges to be made loss is recognised immediately with reference to the proceeds of to the income statement.
These gures are particularly sensitive to sale and the fair value of the asset.
assumptions for discount rates, mortality, ination rates and expected long-term rates of return on assets.
Details of assumptions made are Lease payments relating to operating leases are charged to the given in note 20 on pages 103 and 104. income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 77 Financial Statements continued Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group 1 Accounting information and policies continued Taxation IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective from 1 January 2009 The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
significant introduces a management reporting approach to segment reporting.
judgement is required in determining worldwide provision for taxes.
The information reported would be that which management uses There are many transactions and calculations during the ordinary internally for evaluating the performance of operating segments course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is and allocating resources to those segments.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit requirements in IAS 14 Segment Reporting and its impact is currently issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
being assessed by the Group.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the The following interpretations, relevant to Unilever, have been released income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such and will be adopted by Unilever on the dates as noted.
Adoption is determination is made.
not expected to have a material effect on the consolidated results of operations or financial position of Unilever.
Provisions Provision is made, among other reasons, for legal matters, disputed IFRIC 7, Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 indirect taxes, employee termination costs and restructuring where Financial Reporting in Hyperinationary Economies effective for a legal or constructive obligation exists at the balance sheet date and Unilever from 1 January 2007 provides guidance on how to apply a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
The nature of the requirements of IAS 29 in a reporting period in which an entity these costs is such that judgement has to be applied to estimate the identies the existence of hyperination in the economy when that timing and amount of cash outows.
economy was not hyperinationary in the prior period.
Recent accounting developments IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives effective for IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, effective from 1 January Unilever from 1 January 2007 requires an entity to assess whether 2007, introduces significant new disclosures to improve the a contract contains an embedded derivative at the date an entity information about financial instruments.
It requires the disclosures first becomes a party to the contract and prohibits reassessment of qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks unless there is a change to the contract that signicantly modies arising from financial instruments, including specified minimum the cash ows.
disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including analysis of sensitivity to market risk.
It replaces disclosure requirements IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment effective for in IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
Unilever from 1 January 2007 states that any impairment loss recognised for goodwill and equity instruments classied as In addition an amendment has been issued to IAS 1 Presentation of available for sale in an interim period may not be reversed in Financial Statements which requires Unilever to make new disclosures subsequent interim periods.
to enable the users of financial statements to evaluate the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital.
Unilever will apply IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 from January 2007.
78 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006
