Financial Statements continued Statement of Directors responsibilities Annual accounts Going concern The Directors are required by Title 9, Book 2 of the Civil Code in The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 in preparing the accounts.
This is because the Directors, to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and after making enquiries and following a review of the Groups fair view of the state of affairs of the Unilever Group, and the NV budget for 2007 and 2008, including cash ows and borrowing and PLC entities as at the end of the financial year and of the facilities, consider that the Group has adequate resources to profit or loss and cash ows for that year.
continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, the Group Internal and disclosure controls and procedures and the NV and PLC entities have used the most appropriate Unilever has a well-established control framework, which is accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by documented and regularly reviewed by the Boards.
This reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all incorporates risk management, internal control procedures and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU disclosure controls and procedures including the operation of in the case of the consolidated accounts and United Kingdom the Disclosures Committee see page 38 which are designed to accounting standards in the case of the parent company accounts provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
safeguarded, the risks facing the business are being addressed and all information required to be disclosed is reported to the The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC Groups senior management, including where appropriate the keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer, within the their financial position and which enable the Directors to ensure required timeframe.
that the accounts comply with the relevant legislation.
They also have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are Our procedures cover financial, operational, social, strategic and reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, environmental risks and regulatory matters.
The Boards of NV and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
and PLC have also established a clear organisational structure, including delegation of appropriate authorities.
The Groups This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the control framework is supported through a Code of Business Auditors report, is made with a view to distinguishing for Principles, which sets standards of professionalism and integrity shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors for its operations worldwide, and through an Operational and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
Controls Assessment process, which requires the senior management in each business unit to assess the effectiveness of A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group is financial controls.
In our major units financial controls are subject placed on our website at www.
The to a comprehensive assessment annually with all other controls maintenance and integrity of the website are the responsibility of being reviewed over a oneto three-year cycle.
the Directors, and the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors The Boards have overall responsibility for establishing key accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred procedures designed to achieve systems of internal control to the financial statements since they were initially placed on the and disclosure control and for reviewing and evaluating their website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands effectiveness.
The day-to-day responsibility for implementation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial of these procedures and ongoing monitoring of risk and statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the effectiveness of controls rests with the Groups senior management at individual operating company and regional UK law sets out additional responsibilities for the Directors of level.
Regions review, on an ongoing basis, the risks faced by PLC regarding disclosure of information to auditors.
Disclosure their group and the related internal control arrangements, and in respect of these is made on page 140. provide written reports to the Group Chief Executive.
66 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial Statements continued Statement of Directors responsibilities continued Unilevers corporate internal audit function plays a key role in providing an objective view and continuous reassurance of the effectiveness of the risk management and related control systems throughout Unilever to both operating management and the Boards.
The Group has an independent Audit Committee, comprised entirely of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
This Committee meets regularly with the Chief Auditor and the external auditors.
Unilever has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Boards, which is regularly reviewed and updated.
Performance is monitored against budget and the previous year through monthly and quarterly reporting routines.
The Group reports to shareholders quarterly.
Unilevers system of risk management has been in place throughout 2006 and up to the date of this report, and complies with the recommendations of Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, published by the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales in October 2005.
The Boards have carried out an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of risk management and internal control during 2006 in accordance with this guidance, and have ensured that the necessary actions have been or are being taken to address any significant failings arising out of that review.
Based on an evaluation by the Boards, the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial officer concluded that the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2006 were effective, and that subsequently there have been no significant changes in the Groups internal controls, or in other factors that could signicantly affect those controls.
It is Unilevers practice to bring acquired companies within the Groups governance procedures as soon as is practicable and in any event by the end of the first full year of operation.
Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
This requirement will be reported on separately and will form part of Unilevers Annual Report on Form 20-F. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 67
