Financial Statements continued Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group 1 Accounting information and policies The accounting policies adopted are essentially the same as those In addition, the Group has applied the following changes in which applied for the previous financial year.
Changes arising from presentation of the financial statements: interpretations or amendments of applicable accounting standards are set out below under the heading of Companies legislation and Within the income statement, costs and revenues relating accounting standards.
to restructuring, business disposals and impairments are shown separately: Unilever The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group Within the balance sheet, current tax assets were previously shown companies, operate as a single economic entity the Unilever Group, net within current tax liabilities.
These are now reported separately also referred to as Unilever or the Group.
NV and PLC have the same on a gross basis: and Directors and are linked by a series of agreements, including an Equalisation Agreement, which are designed so that the position of Secondary reporting segments are presented in four reporting the shareholders of both companies is as nearly as possible the same segments, as opposed to six reporting segments in 2005.
Further as if they held shares in a single company.
information is provided on page 81.
The Equalisation Agreement provides that both companies adopt Foreign currencies the same accounting principles and requires as a general rule Items included in the financial statements of group companies are the dividends and other rights and benets including rights on measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in liquidation attaching to each 0.16 nominal of ordinary share capital which each entity operates its functional currency.
The consolidated of NV to be equal in value at the relevant rate of exchange to the financial statements are presented in euros.
The functional currencies 1 dividends and other rights and benets attaching to each 3 9p of NV and PLC are euros and sterling respectively.
nominal of ordinary share capital of PLC, as if each such unit of capital formed part of the ordinary capital of one and the same Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional company.
For additional information please refer to Corporate currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the governance on page 39. transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end Basis of consolidation exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Due to the operational and contractual arrangements referred to foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except above, NV and PLC form a single reporting entity for the purposes when deferred in equity as qualifying hedges.
Those arising on trading of presenting consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts of transactions are taken to operating profit: those arising on cash, Unilever are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective financial assets and borrowings are classied as finance income or cost.
Group companies included in the consolidation are those companies controlled by NV or PLC.
Control exists when the In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the income Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of statement, the cash ow statement and all other movements in assets an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
and liabilities are translated at annual average rates of exchange.
The balance sheet, other than the ordinary share capital of NV and The net assets and results of acquired businesses are included in the PLC, is translated at year-end rates of exchange.
In the case of hyperconsolidated accounts from their respective dates of acquisition, being inationary economies, which are those in which ination exceeds the date on which the Group obtains control.
The results of disposed 100% cumulatively over a three-year period, the accounts are businesses are included in the consolidated accounts up to their date adjusted to reect current price levels and remove the inuences of disposal, being the date control ceases.
of ination before being translated.
Companies legislation and accounting standards The ordinary share capital of NV and PLC is translated in accordance The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with with the Equalisation Agreement.
The difference between the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by resulting value for PLC and the value derived by applying the year-end the EU, including interpretations from the International Financial rate of exchange is taken to other reserves see note 23 on page 110.
Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and the Standing Interpretations Committee SIC, and with Book 2 of the Civil Code The effects of exchange rate changes during the year on net in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985. assets at the beginning of the year are recorded as a movement in shareholders equity, as is the difference between profit of the year The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention unless retained at average rates of exchange and at year-end rates of otherwise indicated.
For these purposes net assets include loans between group companies and related foreign exchange contracts, if any, for which The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable previous financial year except that the Group has adopted the future.
Exchange gains losses on hedges of net assets are also following IFRIC interpretations with effect from 1 January 2006. recorded as a movement in equity.
Adoption of these interpretations did not have a material effect on the financial statements of the Group.
Cumulative exchange differences arising since the transition date of 1 January 2004 are reported as a separate component of other IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease, reserves see note 23 on page 110.
In the event of disposal or part provides guidance in determining whether arrangements contain disposal of an interest in a group company either through sale or as a lease to which lease accounting must be applied.
a result of a repayment of capital, the cumulative exchange difference is recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests Arising from Decommissioning, on disposal of group companies.
Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds, establishes the accounting treatment for funds established to help finance Business Combinations decommissioning for a companys assets.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition accounting method.
This involves recognising identiable assets The Group also applied the amendment to IAS 39 Financial and liabilities of the acquired business at fair value.
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts which requires that financial guarantee contracts are Acquisitions of minority interests are accounted for using the parent accounted for as financial instruments, initially recognised at fair value.
entity method, whereby the difference between the consideration As the Group has no material external financial guarantees, the and the book value of the share of the net assets acquired is recognised amendment did not have a material effect on the financial statements.
74 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006
