Financial Statements continued Company accounts Auditors report Unilever PLC Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Basis of audit opinion Unilever PLC on the parent company accounts We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have audited the parent company accounts of Unilever PLC Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, balance sheet and the related notes.
These parent company of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts have been prepared under the accounting policies set parent company accounts and the part of the Report of the out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Report Remuneration Committee to be audited.
It also includes an of the Remuneration Committee that is described as having assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made been audited.
by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate We have reported separately on the consolidated accounts of the to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and Unilever Group for the year ended 31 December 2006. adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the parent company information and explanations which we considered necessary in accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable United Kingdom accounting standards United Kingdom Generally assurance that the parent company accounts and the part of the Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited are free Directors Responsibilities on pages 66 and 67.
The Directors are from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other also responsible for preparing the Annual Report, including the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Report of the Remuneration Committee.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company accounts and the part of the Report of the Our responsibility is to audit the parent company accounts and Remuneration Committee to be audited.
the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Opinion requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and In our opinion: Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the shareholders of Unilever PLC as a body in the parent company accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 31 December 2006: person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may the parent company accounts and the part of the Report of the come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Remuneration Committee to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company the information given in the Report of the Directors is accounts give a true and fair view and whether the parent consistent with the parent Company accounts.
company accounts and the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given 6 March 2007 in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the parent company accounts.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has London, United Kingdom not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company accounts.
The other information comprises only Report of the Directors and the Shareholder information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
136 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006
