66 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual In the case of the Companys UK GAAP financial statements, Report and the Financial Statements.
The Directors are the Directors are required to prepare financial statements for required to prepare financial statements for the Group in each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of affairs of the Company and of the profit and loss of the IFRS and have chosen to prepare Company financial Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally statements, the Directors are required to: Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: In the case of the Groups IFRS financial statements, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial prudent: and statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups state whether applicable accounting standards have been financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and requires the faithful representation of the effects of explained in the financial statements.
transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting income and expenses set out in the International Accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Standard Boards Framework for the Preparation and the financial position of the Company for safeguarding the Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all assets, taking reasonable steps for the prevention and circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by detection of fraud and other irregularities, and for the compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also preparation of the report of the Directors and the required to: Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of properly select and apply accounting policies: the Companies Act 1985. present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and The Boards statement on going concern is included in the understandable information: and Corporate Governance Report on pages 53 to 57. provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
