Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Consolidated and The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with requirements in preparing the Financial Statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with them to ensure that the Consolidated Financial Statements comply International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation by the European Union, and the Parent Company Financial and the Parent Company Financial Statements comply with the Statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking Accounting Practice.
The Consolidated and Parent Company reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and fair other irregularities.
view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and the state that the Consolidated Financial Statements comply with IFRSs Directors have taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the Parent as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant Company Financial Statements that applicable UK Accounting audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures aware of that information.
disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualications as necessary.
Avis Europe plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
