significant Accounting Policies Applicable to the Parent Company Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 c deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are Basis of preparation regarded as recoverable.
Assets are regarded as recoverable The Companys functional currency is sterling, and the balance when it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be sheet and related notes are presented in sterling.
suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted: and The Parent Company Financial Statements set out on pages 86 to 90 have been prepared under the historical cost convention and d deferred tax is not recognised on permanent differences.
in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards and the Companies Act 1985.
A summary of the principal accounting Foreign currency policies are set out below, which are consistent with those followed Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of in the preparation of the Companys Financial Statements for the exchange ruling at the year end.
Transactions during the year are year ended 31 December 2005, except for the adoption of FRS 26 recorded at rates of exchange in effect when the transaction occurs.
amendment Financial Guarantee Contracts effective from 1 January 2006. Dividend distribution Final dividends to the Companys shareholders are recognised This amendment requires issued financial guarantees, other than as a liability in the Financial Statements in the period in which those previously asserted by the entity to be insurance contracts, the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
to be initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
measured at the higher of: a the unamortised balance of the related fees received and deferred: and b the expenditure required Share-based payments to settle the commitment at the balance sheet date.
The Company Share-based payments are exclusively made in connection with has issued various financial guarantees to third parties in relation to employee stock option plans ESOPs.
borrowings and transactions undertaken by subsidiary companies in the normal course of business.
FRS 20, Share-Based Payments, is not applied to shares, share options or other equity instruments that were granted before or The comparative amounts in respect of xed asset investments, on 7 November 2002, and which had not vested at 1 January 2005. other financial liabilities, and retained earnings have been restated Equity-settled ESOPs granted after that date are accounted for in accordingly.
In the year ended 31 December 2005, these accordance with FRS 20, such that the fair value of the employee restatements did not increase or decrease the Companys retained service received in exchange for the grant of the option is recognised profit for the year from 0.1 million as previously reported, but, in in the income statement over the related performance period.
The conjunction with an opening reserves adjustment at 1 January 2005 total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined of 0.1 million, opening retained earnings at 1 January 2006 were by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding reduced by 0.1 million.
the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example profitability growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are Fixed asset investments included in assumptions about the number of options that are Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, any impairment where the recoverable amount is less than cost.
the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that Fixed asset investments are initially stated at cost, being their are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact purchase cost together with any incidental expenses of acquisitions.
of the revision of original estimates in the income statement, The carrying values of xed asset investments are reviewed for with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
impairment in periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment of xed The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction asset investments is charged to the profit and loss account in the costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the year in which it arises.
Deferred taxation Financial guarantees Deferred tax is provided using the incremental liability approach and Financial guarantees, other than those previously asserted by the is measured on a non-discounted basis at the average tax rates that entity to be insurance contracts, are initially recognised at their are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences fair value and subsequently measured at the higher of: are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws substantively a the unamortised balance of the related fees received and deferred: enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in and respect of timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date except that: b the expenditure required to settle the commitment at the balance sheet date.
a deferred tax is not recognised on the revaluation of non-monetary assets such as property unless a binding sale agreement exists at the balance sheet date.
Where rollover relief is available on an asset then deferred tax is in any case not recognised: b deferred tax is not recognised on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures unless dividends have been accrued as receivable or there is a binding agreement to distribute past earnings at the balance sheet date: Avis Europe plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
