Optimising Operational efficiency Rigorous cost reduction During 2006, the Group largely completed a significant organisational and overhead restructuring programme, which will generate some 25 million of annual savings during 2007.
Shared Service Centre We continued to transfer back-ofce activities into our shared service centre in Budapest with a further 100 roles moving during 2006, taking the total number of employees to over 280.
We have now migrated work from all our operations across Europe, particularly from the UK and Germany.
Increasing Internet Reservations We continue to focus on increasing the number of customers booking with us directly and our new industry-leading website is a key element in our strategy to differentiate the customer experience.
Launched in November 2006 in the UK, it brings traditional online retailing principles to the car rental reservation process: improved navigation and user-friendly language reduce the time needed to make a reservation: additional functionality, such as the introduction of customer accounts, allows customers to securely store all personal and payment details and review past rentals, thus saving time when completing a booking.
Revenue Management A new revenue management function has been formed with the goal of improving price, yield and vehicle utilisation.
The initiative assisted in the achievement of a 0.8% point improvement in utilisation during the year.
We are continuing to invest in developing and rolling out further revenue management capabilities in 2007.
Overhead Restructuring A pan-European overhead restructuring programme was completed during the year, generating annualised cost savings of 11 million in 2006 and introducing new ways of working to make the business both more effective and efficient.
Call Centre Consolidation The Manchester call centre was successfully integrated into our Barcelona site in October 2006, whilst still achieving good service levels over the key summer period.
Barcelona is now handling all calls for Avis and Budget.
