Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of Avis Europe plc on the Parent Company Financial Statements We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of Avis Basis of audit opinion Europe plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These Parent Company on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in to the amounts and disclosures in the Parent Company Financial the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the We have reported separately on the Consolidated Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements, and of whether the of Avis Europe plc for the year ended 31 December 2006. accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Directors Remuneration Report and the Parent Company information and explanations which we considered necessary Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom assurance that the Parent Company Financial Statements and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
The Directors are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other also responsible for preparing the Remuneration Report.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Parent Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company Financial Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Report to be audited.
to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Opinion Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared In our opinion: for and only for the Companys shareholders as a body in the Parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 31 December 2006: person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been the Parent Company Financial Statements.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information  LLP given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Parent Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Company Financial Statements.
The information given in the London Directors Report includes that specic information presented 26 February 2007 in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross-referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Financial Review, the Corporate and Social Responsibility Statement, the Directors Listing, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report and the Five Year Summary.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Avis Europe plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
