significant Accounting Policies Applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 Basis of preparation IAS 39 Amendment, Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Since 1 January 2005, the Group has prepared Consolidated Forecast Intra-group Transactions effective from Financial Statements in accordance with EU endorsed International 1 January 2006 Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, International Financial The amendment allows the foreign currency risk of a highly probable Reporting Interpretations Committee interpretations and the forecast intra-group transaction to qualify as a hedged item in the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under Consolidated Financial Statements, provided that: a the transaction IFRS.
Until 31 December 2004, the Group prepared Consolidated is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
the entity entering into that transaction: and b the foreign currency risk will affect consolidated profit or loss.
This amendment is not IFRS is in the early years of being applied in the United Kingdom relevant to the Groups operations, as the Group does not have and in a large number of countries.
The basis of accounting and any intra-group transactions that would qualify as a hedged item.
format of presentation remains subject to change following any further interpretative guidance that may be issued by the International IAS 39 Amendment, The Fair Value Option effective from Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial 1 January 2006 Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC from time to time.
This amendment changes the denition of financial instruments The European Commission has not yet endorsed all of the recent classied at fair value through profit or loss and restricts the ability amendments to the Standards or recent Interpretations.
to designate financial instruments as part of this category.
This amendment has had no impact on the classication of the Groups Furthermore, due to a number of new and revised standards financial instruments.
included within the body of standards that comprise IFRS, there is not yet a significant body of established practice on IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Amendment, Financial Guarantee which to draw upon in forming options regarding interpretation Contracts effective from 1 January 2006 and application.
Accordingly, practice is continuing to evolve.
This amendment requires issued financial guarantees, other than those previously asserted by the entity to be insurance contracts, to The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared be initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently measured on the historical cost basis and are prepared in accordance at the higher of: a the unamortised balance of the related fees with the accounting policies set out below, which are consistent received and deferred: and b the expenditure required to settle the with those followed in the preparation of the Consolidated commitment at the balance sheet date.
This amendment to IAS 39 Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 did not affect the Groups results of operations or financial position.
except for the adoption of the following: The following other standards and interpretations to published IAS 21 Amendment, The Effects of Changes in Foreign standards that are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or Exchange Rates effective from 1 January 2006 after 1 January 2006 have been adopted but have no impact on the In December 2005, the International Accounting Standards Board Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 6, Exploration For and issued additional clarification and revisions to IAS 21, The Effects Evaluation of Mineral Resources: IFRIC 4, Determining Whether an of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
The clarification states Arrangement Contains a Lease: IFRIC 5, Rights to Interests arising that the net investment denition includes loans between sister from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation companies, and the revision also permits certain inter-company Funds: IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specic items denominated in any currency to be included within a net Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment: and IFRIC 7, investment in a foreign operation.
The revision to IAS 21 was Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial endorsed by the European Commission in May 2006.
Following Reporting in Hyperinationary Economies.
this endorsement the Group has concluded it is able to apply a net investment hedge to certain inter-company loans.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to Comparative amounts have been restated accordingly.
published standards that are not yet effective Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing The comparative amounts in respect of foreign exchange on standards have been published that are mandatory for the Groups debt recognised in the income statement have been reduced accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007 or later with a corresponding increase in the amount recorded in the periods but which the Group has not early adopted, as follows: statement of recognised income and expense.
In the year ended 31 December 2005, the restatement reduced the foreign exchange IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and a amount recognised in the income statement from a gain of complementary amendment to IAS 1, Presentation 9.6 million to a loss of 0.1 million with a corresponding of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures reduction in the tax charge from 10.9 million to 8.0 million.
effective from 1 January 2007 These restatements, in conjunction with an opening reserves IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures to improve the information reclassication at 1 January 2005 of 0.1 million, reduce about financial instruments.
It requires the disclosure of qualitative opening retained earnings as at 1 January 2006 by 6.9 million and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from with a corresponding increase in other reserves of 6.9 million.
financial instruments, including specified minimum disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including sensitivity analysis If the clarification had not been applied in the current year, the to market risk.
It replaces IAS 30, Disclosures in the Financial amount in respect of foreign exchange on debt recognised in the Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions, and disclosure income statement would have increased from a gain of 0.9 million requirements in IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and to a gain of 7.1 million with a corresponding increase in the taxation Presentation.
It is applicable to all entities that report under IFRS.
charge from 5.7 million to 7.6 million.
These adjustments would The amendment to IAS 1 introduces disclosures about the level of be offset by corresponding adjustments in the statement of an entitys capital and how it manages capital.
The Group assessed recognised income and expense whereby there would have been the impact of IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 and concluded an increase in the loss in respect of foreign exchange differences that the main additional disclosures will be the sensitivity analysis on translation of foreign operations, and a decrease in the tax to market risk and the capital disclosures required by the amendment credit on net items taken to equity.
There would be no impact on of IAS 1.
The Group will apply IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 the Groups underlying result for the year and shareholders equity.
from annual periods beginning 1 January 2007.
A Avis Eur vis Europe plc ope plc 46 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives Exceptional items effective from 1 January 2007 Exceptional items are material non-recurring items that derive from IFRIC 9 concludes that an entity must assess whether an embedded events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the derivative is required to be separated from the host contract and Group, and which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, accounted for as a derivative when the entity first becomes party are separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence.
Subsequent reassessment is prohibited unless there is a change in the terms of the contract that signicantly Certain re-measurement items modies the cash ows which would be required under the Items that represent the certain re-measurement of underlying contract, in which case reassessment is required.
Management assets or liabilities for example due to interest rate or exchange have concluded that this interpretation has no impact on how rate changes are presented as certain re-measurement items.
embedded derivatives have been identied and recognised to date.
Events which may give rise to the classication of gains and losses as certain re-measurement items include the following: IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment a recognised fair value gains and losses on derivatives in accordance effective from 1 January 2007 with the financial instruments and hedge accounting policy below: IFRIC 10 states that an entity shall not reverse an impairment loss recognised in a previous interim period in respect of goodwill or b exchange gains and losses arising upon the translation of foreign an investment in either an equity instrument or a financial asset currency borrowings at the closing rate: and carried at cost.
As the Group has not to date reversed any c actuarial gains and losses arising on dened benefit retirement impairments recognised in previous periods, management have benefit schemes.
concluded that this amendment has no immediate impact on the Groups Financial Statements.
Economic hedge adjustments Under IAS 39, the Group applies hedge accounting to hedge IFRIC 11, IFRS 2, Group and Treasury Share Transactions relationships primarily forward exchange contracts, cross currency effective from 1 January 2008 interest rate swaps and interest rate swaps where it is permissible IFRIC 11 provides guidance on applying IFRS 2.
Where share-based and practicable to do so.
Due to the nature of its economic hedging payments involving an entitys own equity instruments in which the relationships, in a number of circumstances the Group is unable to entity chooses or is required to buy its own equity instruments apply hedge accounting to these derivatives.
The Group continues, treasury shares to settle the share-based payment obligation however, to enter into these arrangements as they provide certainty these should be accounted for as an equity-settled share-based of the exchange rates applying to the foreign currency transactions transaction under IFRS 2.
The Group believes that this amendment entered into by the Group and the interest rate on the Groups debt.
should not have a significant impact on the treatment of the Groups These arrangements result in xed and determined cash ows.
The Group believes that these arrangements remain effective as economic hedges, and therefore adjustment is made to reported IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements profit measures such that underlying profit reects full application effective from 1 January 2008 of hedge accounting.
IFRIC 12 provides guidance on the treatment of government service concession arrangements and is deemed not relevant Functional currency to the Groups operations.
The Companys functional currency is sterling.
However, as a significant proportion of the Groups revenues, costs, assets and IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective from 1 January 2009 funding arise in euro, the Consolidated Financial Statements of the IFRS 8 requires an entity to adopt a management approach to Group are presented in euro.
segment reporting such that segment information is the information which management uses internally for calculating segment Basis of consolidation performance and deciding how to allocate resources to operating The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise a consolidation segments.
This information may be different from that used to of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
prepare the income statement and balance sheet.
Management does not anticipate that the introduction of IFRS 8 will have a The accounting reference dates of certain of the Groups subsidiary significant impact on the Groups segmental disclosures.
The Group undertakings and its associated undertaking are governed by will apply IFRS 8 from annual periods beginning 1 January 2009. local requirements and are not coterminous with the Groups 31 December year end.
For those companies with non-coterminous Underlying measures year ends, management accounts for the relevant period to In addition to total performance measures, the Group discloses 31 December have been consolidated.
The main subsidiary underlying performance measures, including underlying profit undertakings with such non-coterminous year ends are Avis and underlying earnings per share.
The Group believes that Location fide Voitures sas 28 February and Avis Autonoleggio SpA these underlying performance measures provide additional 30 June.
In the opinion of the Directors, the expense of providing useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
The additional coterminous statutory accounts, together with potential term underlying is not dened under IFRS, and may therefore consequential delay in producing the Groups Consolidated Financial not be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements Statements, would outweigh any benefit to the shareholders.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures of profit.
Subsidiary undertakings Subsidiary undertakings are those entities in which the Group has, Underlying measures are calculated based on reported profit directly or indirectly, an interest of more than half of the voting rights before exceptional items, certain re-measurement items and or otherwise has the power to exercise control over the operations.
adjustments to reect the realised gains and losses on foreign Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that control is transferred exchange forward contracts and accrued interest cash ows to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date that on any financial instruments economic hedge adjustments.
All inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated upon consolidation.
Avis Europe plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 significant Accounting Policies continued Applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 Joint ventures Share-based payments A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group Share-based payments are exclusively made in connection with and one or more parties undertake an economic activity that is employee stock option plans ESOPs.
Joint control is when the strategic, financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activity require the IFRS 2, Share-Based Payment, is not applied to shares, share unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
options or other equity instruments that were granted before or on 7 November 2002 nor for options issued after that date which had Interests in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method.
vested at or before 1 January 2005.
Equity-settled ESOPs granted Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group after that date are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2, such and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups that the fair value of the employee service received in exchange for interest in the joint ventures.
The Groups investment in joint the grant of the option is recognised in the income statement over ventures includes goodwill on acquisition.
The Groups share of the related performance period.
The total amount to be expensed profit from joint ventures represents the Groups share of the joint over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of ventures profit after tax.
If the Groups share of losses in a joint the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting venture equals or exceeds its investment in the joint venture, the conditions for example profitability growth targets.
Non-market Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options Associate undertakings that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact Investments in the associate undertaking are accounted for using of the revision of original estimates in the income statement, with the equity method.
This is an undertaking over which the Group has a corresponding adjustment to equity.
significant inuence but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The Groups The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction share of profit from the associate represents the Groups share of costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the the associates profit after tax.
Segment reporting Goodwill The Groups primary reporting format is business segments and Business combinations are accounted for by applying the its secondary format is geographical segments.
The excess of the cost of the business is a component of the Group that is engaged in providing a group combination over the acquirers interest in the net fair value of related products and services, and is subject to risks and of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, returns that are different from those other business segments.
recognised in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations, A geographical segment is a component of the Group that constitutes goodwill, and is recognised as an asset.
Where this operates within a particular economic environment and this excess is negative, it is recognised immediately in the income is subject to risks and returns that are different from those statement.
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in of components operating in other economic environments.
Goodwill on acquisition of associates and joint ventures is included in Investments accounted for using equity method.
Revenue Revenue includes vehicle rental income, fees from the provision After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any of services incidental to vehicle rental, and fees receivable from accumulated impairment losses, until disposal or termination licensees, net of discounts and excluding inter-company sales, of the previously acquired business.
The profit or loss on disposal value added and sales taxes.
or termination will be calculated after charging the book amount, at current exchange rates, of any such goodwill through the income When the outcome of a transaction involving the rendering of services statement.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually, and including the provision of licence rights can be estimated reliably, whenever there are indications that goodwill may have become revenue associated with the transaction is recognised by reference impaired including planned disposal or termination where there to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet are indications that the value of the goodwill has been permanently date.
The outcome of a transaction can be estimated reliably when impaired.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the all the following conditions are satisfied: purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cashgenerating units or group of cash-generating units that are expected a the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
b it is probable that the economic benets associated with the transaction will ow to the Group: Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 January 2004, the date of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards, has been c the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested date can be measured reliably: and for impairment at that date.
The Groups policy up to and including d the cost incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete 28 February 1998 was to eliminate goodwill arising upon acquisitions the transaction can be measured reliably.
Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves and is not included in determining any Cost of sales subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Cost of sales includes selling, revenue and rental related costs eg commissions and credit card fees, and vehicle costs.
Contributions Other intangible assets to vehicle costs from suppliers are credited over the holding period Other intangible assets are valued at cost less any accumulated of the related vehicles.
Any such contributions dependent on amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs that are performance criteria are recognised in the income statement only to directly associated with identiable and unique software products the extent that it is considered probable that the criteria will be met.
controlled by the Group and which have probable economic benets exceeding the cost beyond one year, are recognised as Finance costs intangible assets.
Computer software programmes are amortised on Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which a straight-line basis over periods varying between two and five years.
Avis Europe plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Vehicles Finance leases for which the Group is the lessee Vehicles are initially measured at cost.
This cost comprises the Leases of vehicles including vehicles subject to manufacturer purchase price including any import duties and non-refundable repurchase arrangements, and other property, plant and equipment, purchase taxes, after deducting trade discounts and rebates, plus where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of any costs directly attributable to bringing the vehicle to the location ownership, are classied as finance leases.
Finance leases are and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating.
After initial capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value recognition, the vehicle is carried at its cost less any accumulated of the leased property or the present value of the minimum lease depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability depreciation is based on initial cost, after consideration of expected and the finance charge so as to achieve a constant rate of return holding periods and estimates of residual values.
Where the carrying on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental amount of a vehicle is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, obligations, net of finance charges, are included in interest bearing it is written down immediately to its recoverable amount.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
income statement over the lease period.
The leased assets are depreciated over their expected useful lives on a basis consistent Other property, plant and equipment with similar owned vehicles or other property, plant and equipment.
Other property, plant and equipment is initially measured at cost.
This If there is no reasonable certainty that ownership will be acquired cost comprises the purchase price including any import duties and by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade discounts and shorter of the lease term and its useful life.
rebates, plus any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating.
Non-current assets held for sale If applicable, initial estimates of the cost of dismantling and removing Non-current assets are classied as held for sale if their carrying the item and restoring the site are also included in the cost of the item.
amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is met when the sale is After initial recognition, the xed assets are carried at cost less any highly probable, the asset is available for immediate sale in its accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
present condition, management are committed to the asset The depreciable amount of the item is allocated according to the disposal, and disposal is expected to be completed within 12 straight-line method over its useful economic life.
Non-current assets classied as held for sale cease lives are as follows: to be depreciated and are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less selling costs.
a Buildings: 40 to 50 years: b Plant and equipment: 3 to 15 years: Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
c IT equipment: 2 to 7 years: The cost of inventories comprises all costs of purchase, costs of d Leased assets: depending on the length of the lease.
conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the balance sheet date.
Items are Where the carrying amount of a xed asset is greater than its valued using the first in, first out method.
When inventories are estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to used, the carrying amount of those inventories are recognised its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair as an expense in the period in which the related revenue is value less costs to sell and value in use and is determined for an recognised.
Provision for write-downs to net realisable value individual asset.
and losses of inventories are recognised as an expense in the period in which the write-down or loss occurs.
Reversals are Leases recognised as a reduction in the amount of inventories recognised Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of as an expense in the period in which the reversal occurs.
ownership are retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Trade and other receivables Operating leases for which the Group is the lessor Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost using Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease the effective interest method as reduced by appropriate allowances term.
Unless the vehicles themselves are held under operating leases for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
for which the Group is the lessee, vehicles leased out under operating leases are included in vehicles in the balance sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents They are depreciated over their expected useful lives.
Cash comprises cash in hand, demand deposits and bank overdrafts.
Cash equivalents include short-term, highly liquid investments that Operating leases for which the Group is the lessee are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are Lease payments under operating leases are recognised as expenses subject to an insignicant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Vehicles subject to manufacturer repurchase agreements Trade and other payables Vehicles subject to manufacturer repurchase agreements are not Trade and other payables are measured at amortised cost using the recognised as non-current assets since these arrangements are effective interest method.
accounted for as operating leases lessee accounting.
The difference between the initial payment and the final repurchase price the Provisions obligation of the manufacturer is considered as a deferred charge A provision is recognised when there is a present obligation legal and is classied as prepaid vehicle operating lease charges within or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an trade and other receivables.
At inception of the arrangement, a outow of resources embodying economic benets will be required separate repurchase agreement receivable is also recognised to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of within trade and other receivables for the final repurchase price.
the amount of the obligation.
If these conditions are not met, no provision is recognised.
Avis Europe plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 significant Accounting Policies continued Applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 Uninsured losses are recognised when the underlying event occurs.
Deferred tax is not recognised in relation to temporary differences Accruals are made for uninsured losses notied and provisions associated with unremitted earnings of the Groups overseas are made for claims incurred but not reported at each year end.
subsidiaries where the Group is in a position to control the timing Recoveries of amounts claimed from insurers to settle expenses of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that incurred are recognised when it is virtually certain that reimbursement such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Current and deferred tax are charged or credited to the income Provisions are measured at the value of the expenditures expected statement except when they relate to items charged or credited to be required to settle the obligation.
directly to equity, in which case the tax is also dealt with in equity.
Retirement benefit obligations Foreign currency translation The Group operates various dened benefit and dened contribution The Group consolidation is prepared in sterling.
Income statements of retirement benefit plans.
Most of these plans are funded schemes, foreign operations are translated into sterling at the weighted average that is they are nanced through a pension fund or an external exchange rates for the period and balance sheets are translated insurance policy.
The minimum funding level of these schemes into sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
is dened by national rules.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as local currency assets and liabilities of Payments to dened contribution retirement benefit plans are the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
charged as an expense as they fall due.
Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the exchange The Groups commitments under dened benefit retirement benefit rate prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Gains and losses plans, and the related costs, are valued using the projected unit resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised in the Exchange movements arising from the retranslation at closing statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is rates of the Groups net investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures recognised immediately to the extent that the benets have already and associates are taken to the translation reserve.
The Groups net vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the investment includes the Groups share of net assets of subsidiaries, average period until the benets become vested.
joint ventures and associates, and certain inter-company loans.
The net investment denition includes loans between sister companies The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet and certain inter-company items denominated in any currency.
represents the present value of the dened benefit obligation Other exchange movements are taken to the income statement.
as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations, plus the present value of any refunds and reductions in future the gains and losses relating to the effective portion of the hedging contributions to the plan.
The current service costs and gains instrument is recognised in the translation reserve in equity.
The gain and losses on settlements and curtailments are included in or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised in the income operating expenses in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Taxation The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
The Groups Financial Statements are presented in euro.
The Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income consolidated sterling assets and liabilities at each balance sheet statement because it excludes items of income or expense that date are recalculated into euro at the closing rate at that balance are taxable or deductible in other years, and it further excludes sheet date.
The consolidated sterling income and expenses are items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability recalculated into euro at the average monthly exchange rates.
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted All resulting exchange differences arising after 1 January 2004 or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
are taken to the translation reserve.
Current tax for current and prior periods, to the extent unpaid, Equity are recognised as a liability.
If the amount already paid in respect Where the Company or its subsidiaries reacquires its own equity of current and prior periods exceeds the amount due for those instruments, those instruments are deducted from equity as treasury periods, the excess is recognised as a current asset.
Where such equity instruments are subsequently sold, relating to a tax loss that can be carried back to recover current tax any consideration received is recognised in equity.
of a previous period is recognised as an asset.
Dividend distribution Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability Final dividends to the Companys shareholders are recognised as method, on temporary differences between the carrying amount a liability in the Consolidated Financial Statements in the period in of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
corresponding tax bases for taxation purposes.
Deferred taxes are Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
not calculated on the following temporary differences: i the initial recognition of goodwill and ii the initial recognition of assets and Financial instruments and hedge accounting liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit.
The amount In accordance with IAS 39, financial instruments are recorded of deferred tax provided is based on the expected basis of realisation initially at fair value.
Subsequent measurement depends upon or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using the designation of the instrument, as follows: tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet a non-current investments other than interests in joint ventures, date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that associates and xed deposits and short-term investments it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against other than xed deposits are normally designated as available which the unused tax losses and credits can be utilised.
Deferred for sale and are held at fair value: tax assets previously recognised are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Avis Europe plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 b xed deposits, comprising principally funds held with banks Embedded derivatives and other financial institutions, and short-term borrowings and Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host overdrafts are classied as loans and receivables and are held contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and at amortised cost: characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value.
Embedded c derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange derivatives are held at fair value, with unrealised gains and losses contracts, cross currency interest rate swaps, options and recognised in the income statement as they arise.
embedded derivatives, are classied as derivative financial instruments and are held at fair value: and Critical accounting policies and judgements d long-term loans are generally held at amortised cost.
The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the The fair values of derivative financial instruments are determined reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and using a number of methods and assumptions based on prevailing disclosure of contingencies at the date of the Consolidated Financial conditions at the balance sheet date including market forward interest Statements.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which rates and exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Changes in fair are based on managements best judgement at the date of the value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge Consolidated Financial Statements, deviate from the actual accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions will be modied as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the change.
The following policies are considered to be of greater relationship between the hedging instruments and hedged item, complexity and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement.
as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also Goodwill documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on As required by IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, the Group regularly an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in monitors the carrying value of its assets, including goodwill.
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes Impairment reviews compare the carrying values to the higher in fair values or cash ows of hedged items.
of fair value less costs to sell or the present value of future cash ows that are derived from the relevant asset or cash-generating The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classied as a non-current unit.
These reviews therefore depend on management estimates asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more and judgements, in particular in relation to the forecasting of future than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability if the remaining cash ows and the discount rate applied to the cash ows.
maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Trading derivatives are classied as a current asset or liability.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those that, by virtue of their size or Cash ow hedges incidence, should be separately disclosed in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that The determination of which items should be separately disclosed are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ows are as operating exceptional items requires judgement.
recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the cash ow hedge is a rm Fleet commitment or the forecast transaction results in the recognition Given the nature of the Groups business, the main asset in the of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is balance sheet is the vehicle eet.
The majority of eet is held under recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that manufacturer repurchase arrangements, which guarantee a disposal had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial value at the end of the holding period.
However, a proportion of eet measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result has no such contractual protection and therefore the value at the end in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in of the rental life will depend on the market for those vehicles at the equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period time of disposal.
Judgement is therefore required in the estimation in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge Post-employment benets no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative Application of IAS 19, Employee Benets, requires the exercise gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is of judgement in relation to setting the assumptions used by the recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised actuaries in assessing the financial position of each scheme.
The in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer Group determines the assumptions to be adopted in discussion expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported with its actuaries, and believes these assumptions to be in line in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
with UK generally accepted practice, but the application of different assumptions could have a significant effect on the amounts reected Fair value hedges in the income statement and balance sheet in respect of postFor an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value of employment benets.
The sensitivity of principal scheme liabilities to a hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value changes in the assumptions used by actuaries is set out in Note 23. attributable to the risk being hedged with a corresponding entry in the income statement.
Gains or losses from re-measuring the Provisions derivative, or for non-derivatives, the foreign currency component The Group continues to carry balance sheet provisions in a number of its carrying amount, are also recognised in the income statement.
of areas against exposures that arise in the normal course of trading.
These provisions cover areas such as uninsured losses, termination If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, and reorganisation activities and property dilapidation reserves.
the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which Judgement is involved in assessing the exposures in these areas the effective interest method is used is amortised to the income and hence in setting the level of the required provision.
statement over the period to maturity.
Avis Europe plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
