DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT To the shareholders of Cookson Group plc The Directors are responsible for keeping proper The Directors of Cookson Group plc are responsible for accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements of at any time the financial position of the Company and the parent company only the Company and of the enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply Company and its subsidiaries the Group, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general with applicable law and regulations.
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and Company financial statements for each financial year.
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are Group financial statements in accordance with International also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance EU and have elected to prepare the Company financial Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and The Group financial statements are required by law and integrity of the corporate and financial information included IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to On behalf of the Board their achieving a fair presentation.
The Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial Mike Butterworth statements, the Directors are required to: Group Finance Director select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 13 March 2007 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
Cookson Group plc { 35 } Annual Report 2006
