Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Cookson Group plc is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Its registered address is shown on page 118.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Operating Review on pages 14 to 27.
The financial statements, which were authorised by the Directors for issue on 13 March 2007, are presented in millions of pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.6.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS.
The financial statements of the parent company-only have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP, as disclosed in note 1 to the Company financial statements.
The following standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006 but do not have a material impact upon the results or net assets of the Group: IFRS 1 Amendment, First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: IFRS 6 and the amendment thereto, Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources: IAS 21 Amendment, Net investment in a foreign operation: IAS 30 Amendment, Financial guarantee contracts: IAS 39 Amendment, Cash flow hedge accounting of forecast intra-group transactions: IAS 39 Amendment, The fair value option: IFRIC 4, Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease: IFRIC 5, Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds: and IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market waste electrical and electronic equipment.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were issued but not yet effective: IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements, on capital disclosures: IFRIC 7, Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29, Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies: IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2: and IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives.
IFRS 7 is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007 and will be adopted in the Groups consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2007.
The adoption of IFRS 7 will have no impact upon the Groups net cash flows, financial position or recognised income and expense, but will add to the existing disclosures for financial instruments.
The Directors believe that interpretations 7, 8 and 9 issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC will have no impact on the financial statements of the Group.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 3.1 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING With the exception of certain items noted below, which are carried at fair value, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and IFRS, having been prepared in accordance with IFRS for the first time in 2005.
During 2006, the Directors continued to assess the detailed impact of IFRS on the presentation of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
As a consequence of this continued assessment, the Directors have made a number of changes to the accounting treatment and presentation of certain items in the Groups consolidated financial statements for 2006, together with appropriate changes to the respective comparative information in the prior year.
These changes, none of which have had an impact on the Groups net cash flows, financial position or total recognised income and expense as previously reported for 2005, are explained in note 3.3.
Cookson Group plc { 57 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.2 DISCLOSURE OF EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS IAS 1 provides no definitive guidance as to the format of the income statement, but states key lines which should be disclosed.
It also encourages additional line items and the re-ordering of items presented on the face of the income statement when appropriate for a proper understanding of the entitys financial performance.
In keeping with the spirit of this aspect of IAS 1, the Company has adopted a policy of disclosing separately on the face of its Group income statement the effect of any components of financial performance considered by the Directors to be exceptional, or for which separate disclosure would assist both in a better understanding of the financial performance achieved and in making projections of future results.
Both materiality and the nature and function of the components of income and expense are considered in deciding upon such presentation.
Such items may include, inter alia, the financial effect of any profits or losses arising on business disposals, major rationalisation or restructuring activity, curtailment gains or losses relating to employee benefits, profits or losses on sale or impairment of noncurrent assets and other items, including the taxation impact of the aforementioned items, which have a significant impact on the Groups results of operations either due to their size or nature.
3.3 RESTATEMENT OF COMPARATIVE INFORMATION a Interest cost and expected returns associated with the Groups defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans In the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005, the interest cost and expected return on assets associated with the Groups defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans were recognised in the income statement within trading profit.
For 2006, the interest cost has been included in the income statement within finance costs and the expected return on assets within finance income.
Comparative figures for 2005 have been restated accordingly, such that raw material manufacturing costs have increased by 0.4m: other manufacturing costs have decreased by 1.6m: administration, selling and distribution costs have decreased by 4.1m: trading profit and profit from operations have increased by 5.3m: finance costs have increased by 24.2m and finance income has increased by 18.9m.
This change in accounting treatment, which the Directors believe provides the user of the financial statements with more relevant information in relation to the Groups trading performance, finance costs and finance income, has no impact upon the Groups previously reported net cash flows, financial position, total recognised income and expense or earnings per share.
b Amortisation and impairment of intangibles In the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005, charges in respect of the amortisation and impairment of intangibles were separately disclosed in the Group income statement as a component of profit from operations, outside of trading profit.
No such costs were incurred for the year ended 31 December 2006 and the Directors believe that these charges do not currently warrant separate disclosure.
Comparative figures for 2005 have been restated, increasing administration, selling and distribution costs by 0.8m, reducing trading profit by 0.8m and reducing both headline and diluted headline earnings per share attributable to discontinued operations by 0.4p.
This change in presentation has no impact upon the Groups previously reported net cash flows, financial position or total recognised income and expense.
c Disposal of businesses from continuing operations In the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005, the loss on disposal of operations which were not classified as discontinued operations due to their size and importance, were calculated post-tax and presented on the face of the income statement below income tax costs.
In these financial statements, losses on disposal of continuing operations have been reported pre-tax as a separate line item below operating profit and before profit before tax.
Comparative figures for 2005 have been restated accordingly, such that a loss on disposal of continuing operations of 2.9m has been reported before profit before tax: profit before tax has reduced by 2.9m and income tax costs on exceptional items have increased by 1.6m.
This change in accounting treatment, which the Directors believe provides the user of the financial statements with more relevant information in relation to the results from continuing operations, has no impact upon the Groups previously reported net cash flows, financial position, total recognised income and expense or earnings per share.
d Cash flows from financing activities In the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005, cash flows resulting from the settlement of forward foreign exchange contracts were disclosed within the statement of cash flows as a component of cash flows from operating activities.
The Directors believe that such items should more appropriately be presented as a component of cash flows from investing activities and comparative figures for 2005 have been restated accordingly.
This change in presentation has no impact upon the Groups previously reported net cash flows, financial position, total recognised income and expense or earnings per share.
e Bank overdrafts In the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005, bank overdrafts were disclosed within the balance sheet as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
The Directors believe that such items should more appropriately be presented as a component of interest-bearing loans and borrowings and comparative figures for 2005 have been restated accordingly.
Cookson Group plc { 58 } Annual Report 2006 3.3 RESTATEMENT OF COMPARATIVE INFORMATION continued f Investments In the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005, certain assets held in Rabbi Trusts were disclosed in the balance sheet as a component of other financial assets.
The Directors believe that such items should more appropriately be presented within non-current investments and comparative figures for 2005 have been restated accordingly.
3.4 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
Control exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial statements are prepared on a consistent basis.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups interest therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
3.5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of acquisition, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, Business Combinations, are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the recognised identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
If the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
3.6 FOREIGN CURRENCIES The individual financial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are translated into pounds sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
a Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each subsequent balance sheet date: i Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the income statement: ii Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated: and iii Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the income statement except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity, in which case any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
b Translation from functional currency to presentational currency When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Groups presentational currency pounds sterling, its results and financial position are translated into the presentational currency as follows: i Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date: ii Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such an average rate does not approximate the exchange rate at the date of the transaction, in which case the transaction rate is used: and iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised in translation reserves as a separate component of equity and are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of.
Cookson Group plc { 59 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.6 FOREIGN CURRENCIES continued c Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entitys net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the foreign operation as appropriate.
In the consolidated Group financial statements such exchange differences are initially recognised in translation reserves as a separate component of equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement on disposal of the net investment.
3.7 REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered to customers, after deducting sales allowances and value-added taxes.
Revenue is recognised when the risk of loss transfers to the customer, depending on individual customer terms at the time of despatch, delivery or upon formal customer acceptance.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
3.8 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Group operates a number of pension plans, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type.
a Defined contribution pension plans Contributions to the Groups defined contribution plans are recognised as employee benefits expense when they fall due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that they result in either a cash refund or reduction in future payments.
Outstanding contributions are recognised as a liability within accruals.
b Defined benefit pension plans The liability recognised in the balance sheet for the Groups defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, less the fair value of the plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates on high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to unrecognised past service cost plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Pension expense for the Groups defined benefit plans is recognised as follows: i Within trading profit: Current service cost representing the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in the current year: and Past service cost representing the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in prior periods that arises from changes made to the benefits under the plans in the current year.
To the extent that the changes to benefits vest immediately, past service costs are recognised immediately, otherwise they are recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
ii Within finance costs: Interest cost on the liabilities of the plans calculated by reference to the plan liabilities and discount rate at the beginning of the year and allowing for changes during the year.
iii Within finance income: Expected return on the assets of the plans calculated by reference to the plan assets and long-term expected rate of return at the beginning of the year and allowing for changes during the year.
iv Within the statement of recognised income and expense: Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and liabilities of the plans.
v Gains and losses arising on settlements and curtailments are recognised in the income statement in the same line where the item that gave rise to the settlement or curtailment is recognised or, if material, separately reported as a component of operating profit.
Cookson Group plc { 60 } Annual Report 2006 3.8 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued c Share-based payments The Group operates a number of different share-based payment arrangements for its employees of both the equity-settled and cash-settled type.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date takes account of the effect of market-based conditions, such as the Total Shareholder Return TSR upon which vesting for some of the awards is conditioned, and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted for the best estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
For grants with market-based conditions attaching to them, fair value is measured using a form of stochastic option pricing model.
For consistency, this method has also been used to value executive share options and stock appreciation rights granted to executives whose options are not subject to the additional market-based performance conditions.
For all other grants, fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes model.
For cash-settled share-based payments, the fair value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities.
The fair value of the amount payable is initially measured at grant date using a form of stochastic option pricing model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date.
Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised in the income statement.
3.9 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Expenditure on development activities is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
All other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
No development expenditure was capitalised in 2006 2005: nil.
3.10 BORROWING COSTS Borrowing costs, comprising interest on bank loans and overdrafts, finance lease obligations, the unwinding of the discount on provisions and the costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings, are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
3.11 TAXATION The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the associated deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Cookson Group plc { 61 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.12 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Freehold land is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Subsequent costs are capitalised only when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits flowing to the Group and when they can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life.
Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins when the asset is available for use and is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost less residual value of the asset over its estimated useful life as follows: Asset category Estimated useful life Freehold property between 10 and 50 years Leasehold property the term of the lease Plant and machinery motor vehicles between 1 and 5 years information technology equipment between 1 and 5 years other between 5 and 15 years The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at each financial year-end.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, as described in note 3.15.
Gains and losses arising on disposals are determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
3.13 GOODWILL Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or associate represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or associate recognised at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment testing is carried out annually, as described in note 3.15.
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
3.14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS OTHER THAN GOODWILL Other intangible assets are recognised on business combinations if they are separable, or if they arise from contractual or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably.
They are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
3.15 IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of i its fair value less costs to sell and ii its value in use, which is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or cash-generating unit, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
a Goodwill Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units for this purpose are the business segments disclosed in note 6, which represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the cashgenerating unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Cookson Group plc { 62 } Annual Report 2006 3.15 IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued b Other tangible and intangible assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss for tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
3.16 INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and one or more other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control exists when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group conducts its joint venture arrangements through jointly controlled entities and accounts for them using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for under IFRS 5.
Where the Group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture.
3.17 INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost using the first-in, first-out method and net realisable value.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in purchasing or manufacturing inventories together with all other costs directly incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition and, where appropriate, attributable production overheads based on normal activity levels.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
The amount of any write-down of inventories to net realisable value is recognised as an expense in the year in which the write-down occurs.
In addition to the inventory recorded in the balance sheet, the Group holds precious metals under consignment arrangements, further details of which are given in note 27.
3.18 NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Non-current assets or a collection of assets and liabilities in a disposal group are separately classified as held for sale in the balance sheet when their carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Immediately prior to being classified as held for sale the measurement of the assets and all assets and liabilities in a disposal group is brought up to date in accordance with applicable IFRS.
Then, on initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are included in profit or loss, as are gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
Discontinued operations are those operations that can be clearly distinguished from the rest of the Group, both operationally and for financial reporting purposes, that have either been disposed of or classified as held for sale and which represent a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
3.19 LEASES Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
a Finance leases Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the income statement.
b Operating leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straightline basis over the lease term.
Cookson Group plc { 63 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.20 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
a Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are initially recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
b Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to manage the effects of its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates on its borrowings.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged note 4.2.
The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
c Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments include investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits and short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Loans and borrowings comprise secured and unsecured loans and obligations under finance leases note 3.19.
Non-derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
The Groups investments in equity and debt securities are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and changes therein are recognised directly in equity.
When an investment is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
All other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
3.21 PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects both the current market assessment of the time value of money and the specific risks associated with the obligation.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Cookson Group plc { 64 } Annual Report 2006 3.22 USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The Company uses a number of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice non-GAAP financial measures in addition to those reported in accordance with IFRS.
Because IFRS measures reflect all items which affect reported performance, the Directors believe that certain non-GAAP measures, which reflect what they view as the underlying performance of the Group, are important and should be considered alongside the IFRS measures.
The following non-GAAP measures are referred to in this annual report.
a Net sales value Net sales value is calculated as the total of revenue less the amount included therein related to any precious metal component.
The Directors believe that net sales value provides an important measure of the underlying sales performance of the Groups Precious Metals division.
b Return on sales and return on net sales value Return on sales is calculated as trading profit divided by revenue.
Return on net sales value is calculated as trading profit divided by net sales value.
The Directors believe that return on sales provides an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Group and the Groups Ceramics and Electronics divisions and that return on net sales value provides an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Groups Precious Metals division.
c Organic revenue growth Organic revenue growth from the current period to a prior year comparator period is calculated after having adjusted the revenue of the comparator period so that it is stated using the same exchange rates as used in the current period and, for those businesses for which metals are a key raw material notably for tin, gold and silver, the same average metal prices as incurred in the current period.
In addition, revenue related to current year acquisitions is removed and, for any business disposals or significant business closures, the comparator period revenue is adjusted such that both current and comparator period have a comparable period of revenue contribution from those businesses.
The Directors believe that organic revenue growth gives an important measure of the underlying revenue-generation capacity of the Group.
d Trading profit Trading profit, defined as profit from operations before the costs of rationalisation of operations, the profit or loss relating to non-current assets and curtailment gains relating to employee benefits, is separately disclosed on the face of the Group income statement.
The Directors believe that trading profit is an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
e EBITDA EBITDA is calculated as the total of trading profit before depreciation and amortisation charges.
The Directors believe that EBITDA provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
f Headline profit before tax Headline profit before tax is calculated as the net total of trading profit, share of post-tax profit of joint ventures and net finance costs, excluding any component of net finance costs considered to be exceptional by the Directors.
The Directors believe that headline profit before tax provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
g Headline earnings per share Headline earnings per share is calculated as the total of trading profit, plus share of post-tax profit of joint ventures and net finance costs and income tax costs associated with ongoing activities, less profit attributable to minority interests, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The Directors believe that headline earnings per share provides an important measure of the underlying earning capacity of the Group.
h Free cash flow Free cash flow, defined as net cash flow from operating activities after net outlays for the acquisition and disposal of noncurrent assets, dividends from joint ventures and dividends paid to minority shareholders, but before additional funding contributions to Group pension plans, is disclosed on the face of the Group statement of cash flows.
The Directors believe that free cash flow gives an important measure of the underlying cash-generation capacity of the Group.
i Average working capital to sales The average working capital to sales percentage is calculated as the ratio of average working capital balances being inventories, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables for a year to revenue for that year.
The Directors believe that the average working capital to sales ratio provides an important measure of the underlying effectiveness with which working capital balances are managed throughout the Group.
Cookson Group plc { 65 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.22 USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES continued j Interest cover Interest cover is the ratio of EBITDA, as adjusted to include the rationalisation costs of operating activities, to net finance costs, excluding any component of net finance costs considered to be exceptional by the Directors.
The Directors believe that interest cover provides an important measure of the underlying financial position of the Group.
k Net debt Net debt comprises the net total of current and non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings and cash and short-term deposits.
The Directors believe that net debt is an important measure as it shows the Groups aggregate net indebtedness to banks and other external financial institutions.
l Net debt to EBITDA Net debt to EBITDA is the ratio of net debt at the year-end to EBITDA, as adjusted to include the rationalisation costs of operating activities, for that year.
The Directors believe that net debt to EBITDA provides an important measure of the underlying financial position of the Group.
m Return on net assets Return on net assets is calculated as trading profit plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint-ventures divided by average operating net assets being property, plant and equipment, trade working capital and other operating receivables and payables.
The Directors believe that return on net assets provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Groups divisions.
n Return on invested capital Return on invested capital is calculated as trading profit plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint-ventures divided by invested capital being shareholders funds plus net debt, employee benefits deficit and goodwill previously written-off to, or amortised against, reserves.
The Directors believe that return on invested capital provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 4.1 FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS a Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from transactions and borrowings that are denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling.
It uses various financial instruments to manage these exposures, as explained below.
i Recognised assets and liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge against the Groups exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability that is attributable to a particular risk and which could affect profit or loss.
Such forward exchange contracts are accounted for as fair value hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 a. ii Forecast transactions Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge against the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that might arise from the fluctuation of exchange rates in relation to highly probable forecast transactions that are denominated in currencies other than its own functional currencies and which might affect profit or loss.
Such forward exchange contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 b. iii Net investment hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts and debt denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are both used to hedge against the Groups exposure to changes in the value of its investment in the net assets of its foreign operations that arise from fluctuations in exchange rates.
Such financial instruments are accounted for as net investment hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 c. b Credit risk At the balance sheet date, the Group had no significant concentrations of credit risk.
c Liquidity risk The Group Treasury function ensures that there are sufficient levels of committed facilities, cash and cash equivalents to ensure that the Group is at all times able to meet its financial commitments.
Cookson Group plc { 66 } Annual Report 2006 4.1 FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS continued d Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises primarily from its borrowings.
An analysis of the currency and interest rate profiles of the Groups borrowings is shown in note 36.
Borrowings at floating rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk and borrowings at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Groups policy is to borrow a mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
Where appropriate, the Group manages its interest rate exposures using interest rate swap agreements or other financial instruments.
From time to time the Company manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using interest rate swaps, which have the economic effect of changing the interest rate profile of the Groups borrowings.
Under the interest rate swaps the Company agrees with the counterparty to exchange at specified intervals the difference between the fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional principal amounts.
4.2 HEDGING ACTIVITIES The Group designates certain financial instruments as either: a hedges of the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities that are attributable to a particular risk and could affect profit or loss fair value hedges : b hedges of the exposure to variability in cash flows that are attributable to a particular risk associated with a highly probable forecast transaction and could affect profit or loss cash flow hedges : or c hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
At the inception of the transaction the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the financial instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
a Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recognised within trading profit in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities that are subject to the hedged risk.
b Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity within hedging reserves.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately within trading profit in the income statement.
When the forecast transaction that was being hedged is realised and affects profit or loss, the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction takes place.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately within trading profit in the income statement.
c Net investment hedges The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge, is recognised directly in equity within translation reserves and subsequently recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately within trading profit in the income statement.
Cookson Group plc { 67 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 5.1 GOODWILL The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill has a value that will benefit the performance of the Group over future periods.
To assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment, at least annually, of the carrying value of the Groups capitalised goodwill, using discounted cash flow forecasts to derive the value in use to the Group of the capitalised goodwill.
In the assessment undertaken in 2006, value in use was derived from discounted 5-year cash flow projections, using a growth rate of 3% in the years beyond the projection period, and pre-tax discount rates ranging from 11-13%.
The projection period is, in the opinion of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the Groups businesses for this purpose.
Changes to the assumptions and discount rates used in making these forecasts could significantly alter the Directors assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
5.2 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT It is Group policy to depreciate its property, plant and equipment assets, except freehold land, on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
This applies an appropriate matching of the revenue earned with the capital costs of production and delivery of goods and services.
A key element of this policy is the estimate of the useful life applied to each category of property, plant and equipment which, in turn, determines the annual depreciation charge.
Variations in asset lives could impact significantly Group profit through an increase or decrease in the depreciation charge.
5.3 CURRENT ASSET RESERVES In the course of normal trading activities, judgement is used to establish the net realisable value of various elements of working capital, principally inventory and trade receivables.
Reserves are established for obsolete or slow-moving inventories, bad or doubtful debts and product warranties.
Reserve requirements are based on the facts available at the time and are also determined by using profiles, based on past practice, applied to certain aged inventory and receivables categories.
In estimating the collectability of trade receivables, judgement is required in assessing their likely realisation, including the current creditworthiness of each customer and related ageing of the past due balances.
Specific accounts are assessed in situations where a customer may not be able to meet its financial obligations due to a deterioration of its financial condition, credit ratings or bankruptcy.
5.4 ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES In certain parts of the business, mainly in the US, the Group has obligations to carry out environmental clean-ups at former and current production sites.
Many of these obligations will not arise for a number of years and the costs are difficult to predict accurately.
The Directors use their judgement and experience to make reserves in the accounts for an appropriate amount for the likely cost of such clean-ups.
5.5 DEFERRED TAXATION The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised losses and other timing differences arising in certain of the Groups businesses, primarily in Europe and Asia.
Account has been taken of future forecasts of taxable profit in arriving at the values at which these assets are recognised.
If these forecast profits do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates or to the period over which the losses or timing difference might be recognised, then the value of the deferred tax asset will need to be revised in a future period.
The Group has losses and other timing differences for which no value has been recognised for deferred tax purposes in these financial statements.
These can arise in loss-making subsidiaries where the future economic benefit of these timing differences is not probable.
It can also arise where the timing differences are of such a nature that their value is dependent only on certain types of profit being earned, such as capital profits.
If trading or other appropriate profits are earned in future in these companies, the timing differences may yield benefit to the Group in the form of a reduced tax charge.
5.6 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Groups financial statements include the costs and obligations associated with the provision of pension and other postretirement benefits to current and former employees.
It is the Directors responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining the key elements of the costs of meeting such future obligations.
These assumptions are set after consultation with the Groups actuaries and include those used to determine regular service costs and the financing elements related to the plans assets and liabilities.
Whilst the Directors believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would affect the Groups profit and financial position.
Cookson Group plc { 68 } Annual Report 2006 6.
SEGMENT INFORMATION 6.1 PRIMARY REPORTING FORMAT BUSINESS SEGMENTS For management reporting purposes the Group is organised into three main business segments, Ceramics, Electronics and Precious Metals.
These segments form the basis of the primary reporting format disclosures below.
The principal activities of each of these segments are described in the Operating Review on pages 14 to 27.
Segment revenue represents revenue to external customers and is stated after the elimination of inter-segment revenue, which is immaterial.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those items that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment assets exclude cash and short-term deposits, deferred tax assets, income tax recoverable, investments in joint ventures, assets classified as held for sale and corporate assets that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis to a business segment.
These items are shown collectively in the following tables as unallocated assets.
Segment liabilities exclude interestbearing loans and borrowings, employee benefits obligations, deferred tax liabilities, income tax payable, liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale and corporate liabilities that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis to a business segment.
These items are shown collectively in the following tables as unallocated liabilities.
Assembly Precious Discontinued 2006 Materials Chemistry Electronics Ceramics Metals operations Total m m m m m m m Segment revenue 319.3 235.4 554.7 756.6 278.3 71.8 1,661.4 Segment result 28.2 30.3 58.5 89.5 11.0 7.9 166.9 Rationalisation of operating activities 7.0 1.7 8.7 22.9 2.4 0.1 34.1 Profit loss relating to non-current assets 1.5 12.8 14.3 0.1 14.2 Curtailment gains relating to employee benefits 4.6 1.7 6.3 2.2 0.1 8.6 Profit from operations before corporate costs 27.3 43.1 70.4 66.5 10.8 7.9 155.6 Corporate costs 8.7 Corporate rationalisation costs 0.6 Corporate loss relating to non-current assets 1.1 Group profit from operations 145.2 Segment assets 159.0 268.0 427.0 568.3 127.6 19.2 1,142.1 Unallocated assets 167.6 Total Group assets 1,309.7 Segment liabilities 45.2 45.6 90.8 155.3 25.2 15.2 286.5 Unallocated liabilities 539.0 Total Group liabilities 825.5 Other segment information: Capital expenditure 3.2 5.1 8.3 30.6 3.1 0.3 42.3 Depreciation 6.2 3.5 9.7 23.6 3.4 0.3 37.0 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 1.0 1.0 0.4 1.4 Interests in joint ventures 7.5 7.5 4.1 11.6 Cookson Group plc { 69 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6.
SEGMENT INFORMATION continued 6.1 PRIMARY REPORTING FORMAT BUSINESS SEGMENTS continued 2005 Total Assembly Precious Discontinued restated Materials Chemistry Electronics Ceramics Metals operations note 3 m m m m m m m Segment revenue 273.7 215.5 489.2 722.1 245.8 177.5 1,634.6 Segment result 25.6 26.9 52.5 73.1 7.8 9.8 143.2 Rationalisation of operating activities 0.8 2.2 3.0 8.1 1.4 5.1 17.6 Profit loss relating to non-current assets 0.3 1.5 1.2 0.1 1.9 0.6 Profit from operations before corporate costs 25.1 23.2 48.3 64.9 6.4 6.6 126.2 Corporate costs 8.5 Corporate rationalisation costs 0.9 Corporate loss relating to non-current assets 0.6 Group profit from operations 116.2 Segment assets 173.7 277.3 451.0 624.3 134.6 106.1 1,316.0 Unallocated assets 119.7 Total Group assets 1,435.7 Segment liabilities 49.2 58.2 107.4 167.9 22.2 55.4 352.9 Unallocated liabilities 621.1 Total Group liabilities 974.0 Other segment information: Capital expenditure 2.8 3.5 6.3 30.4 2.4 3.9 43.0 Depreciation 6.8 4.4 11.2 24.6 3.6 7.7 47.1 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 1.0 1.0 0.4 1.4 Interests in joint ventures 8.4 8.4 4.7 13.1 6.2 SECONDARY REPORTING FORMAT GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS Revenue Assets Capital expenditure 2005 restated 2006 2005 2006 note 3 2006 2005 m m m m m m Europe 525.7 506.2 370.8 391.0 17.3 14.6 NAFTA 525.9 514.4 459.8 523.2 11.1 11.5 Asia-Pacific 420.9 328.9 241.7 237.9 12.2 10.0 Rest of the World 117.1 107.6 50.6 57.8 1.4 3.0 Continuing operations 1,589.6 1,457.1 1,122.9 1,209.9 42.0 39.1 Discontinued operations 71.8 177.5 19.2 106.1 0.3 3.9 Unallocated 167.6 119.7 Total Group 1,661.4 1,634.6 1,309.7 1,435.7 42.3 43.0 Segment revenue by geographical segment represents revenue from external customers based upon the geographical location of the customer.
The analyses of segment assets and capital expenditure are based upon the location of the assets.
Cookson Group plc { 70 } Annual Report 2006 7.
EXPENSES BY NATURE The following items have been charged credited in arriving at trading profit: 2005 restated 2006 note 3 m m Cost of sales 1,198.2 1,180.2 Depreciation, continuing 36.7 38.6 Depreciation, discontinued 0.3 8.5 Total depreciation note 21 37.0 47.1 Minimum lease payments under leases and sub-leases 14.2 16.5 Employee benefits expense note 11 392.8 424.8 Auditors remuneration note 8 2.6 3.0 Foreign exchange differences 2.8 2.0 Research and development expenditure 23.8 22.3 8.
AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO KPMG AUDIT PLC AND ITS ASSOCIATES 2006 2005 m m Audit of these financial statements 0.5 0.6 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.2 1.4 Other services pursuant to such legislation 0.1 0.1 Other services relating to taxation 0.3 0.5 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.4 All other services 0.1 0.4 Total auditors remuneration 2.6 3.0 9.
RATIONALISATION OF OPERATING ACTIVITIES The charge of 34.7m 2005: 18.5m was the result of the implementation of a number of initiatives aimed at reducing the Groups cost base and realigning its manufacturing capacity with its customer markets.
The initiatives implemented included redundancy programmes, the consolidation of facilities, plant closures, the streamlining of manufacturing processes and the rationalisation of product lines.
Of these rationalisation charges, 10.3m 2005: 3.0m represented asset write-downs, the majority of which were in Europe and NAFTA.
Total cash spend in respect of rationalisation initiatives was 16.1m 2005: 17.0m, leaving provisions made but unspent of 19.3m as at 31 December 2006 2005: 12.7m.
The net taxation credit attributable to these rationalisation costs was 2.1m 2005: 5.7m.
PROFIT LOSS RELATING TO NON-CURRENT ASSETS The net profit on non-current assets of 13.1m in 2006 principally comprised profits arising on the sale of surplus property.
There was no net profit loss for the Group during 2005 in relation to the sale of non-current assets, as a net loss of 1.9m in the Groups continuing operations was offset by a profit of 1.9m in discontinued operations.
The net taxation charge attributable to the sale of non-current assets was 3.7m 2005: nil.
Cookson Group plc { 71 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
EMPLOYEES Employee benefits expense 2006 2005 m m Wages and salaries 339.2 364.7 Social security costs 34.7 39.5 Share-based payments note 38 3.1 3.2 Pension costs defined contribution plans note 37 7.0 7.9 Pension costs defined benefit plans note 37 7.4 12.1 Other post-retirement benefits note 37 0.4 1.8 Total employee benefits expense 391.0 429.2 Of the total employee benefits expense of 391.0m 2005: 429.2m, 392.8m 2005: 424.8m was charged in arriving at trading profit, 8.6m 2005: nil was credited in arriving at operating profit, 26.1m 2005: 24.2m was charged within finance costs, 19.6m 2005: 18.9m was credited within finance income, and 0.3m was charged 2005: 0.9m credited in arriving at net post-tax loss on disposal of discontinued operations.
Average number of employees 2006 2005 No No Ceramics 8,677 9,138 Assembly Materials 1,646 1,673 Chemistry 1,274 1,286 Electronics 2,920 2,959 Precious Metals 1,760 1,848 Continuing operations 13,357 13,945 Discontinued operations 717 1,829 Total average number of employees 14,074 15,774 Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the executive Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 51.
2006 2005 m m Short-term employee benefits 1.5 2.6 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.4 Share-based payments 0.6 0.5 Total remuneration of key management personnel 2.3 3.5 Cookson Group plc { 72 } Annual Report 2006 12.
FINANCE COSTS AND FINANCE INCOME 2005 restated 2006 note 3 m m Interest payable on borrowings: Bank loans and overdrafts 27.1 31.0 Obligations under finance leases 0.2 0.3 Amortisation of capitalised borrowing costs 0.4 0.5 27.7 31.8 Other interest payable: Write-off of capitalised borrowing costs 1.2 Interest on retirement benefit obligations 26.1 24.2 Total finance costs 53.8 57.2 Interest receivable 5.8 2.1 Expected return on retirement benefit assets 19.6 18.9 Total finance income 25.4 21.0 Finance costs 53.8 57.2 Finance income 25.4 21.0 Total net finance costs 28.4 36.2 13.
LOSS ON DISPOSAL OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS During the year, the Group disposed of a number of businesses from its Ceramics and Electronics divisions, none of which represented a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
Accordingly, these disposals are presented within pre-tax results from continuing operations in the Groups income statement.
The net proceeds received in respect of these disposals amounted to 14.5m resulting in a net loss before tax of 4.7m note 42.
In 2005, the Group disposed of its Technical Ceramics business, formerly a part of the Ceramics division, and also incurred additional costs in relation to prior year disposals, resulting in a net loss before tax of 2.9m.
The tax charge associated with these disposals was 0.6m 2005: 1.6m.
Cookson Group plc { 73 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
INCOME TAX COSTS 2005 restated 2006 note 3 m m Current tax: UK corporation tax 5.5 8.8 Double tax relief 5.0 8.6 Overseas tax 32.4 21.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5.5 4.1 Total current tax 38.4 26.1 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary taxable differences includes 0.1m charge 2005: 0.2m credit relating to prior year 5.4 1.7 Arising from the write-down of deferred tax assets and release of fair value tax provisions 16.6 Total deferred tax note 25 5.4 18.3 Total income tax costs 43.8 44.4 The Groups total income tax cost of 43.8m 2005: 44.4m includes 5.3m 2005: 16.0m relating to exceptional items, comprising a 2.1m credit 2005: credit 5.7m in relation to rationalisation costs note 9, a charge of 3.7m 2005: nil in relation to non-current assets note 10, a charge of 3.1m 2005: 3.5m in relation to the different treatment of goodwill amortisation for tax and reporting purposes and a charge of 0.6m 2005: 1.6m on the loss on disposal of continuing operations note 13.
The 2005 cost also included a write-down of deferred tax assets of 16.6m following a reassessment of expected future geographical profit contributions.
Current tax cost for 2006 has been reduced by a benefit of 2.2m arising from previously unrecognised tax losses.
The Group operates in a number of countries that have differing tax rates, laws and practices.
Changes in any of these areas could, adversely or positively, impact the Groups tax charge in the future.
Continuing losses, or insufficiency of taxable profit to absorb all expenses, in any subsidiary could have the effect of increasing tax charges in the future, relative to 2006, as effective tax relief may not be available for those losses or expenses.
Other significant factors affecting the tax charge are described in note 3.11.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is 81.0m 2005: 61.7m.
The tax charge relating to items charged or credited directly to equity was nil 2005: nil.
The Groups total income tax cost for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: 2005 restated 2006 note 3 m m Profit before tax 113.5 78.5 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2005: 30% 34.1 23.6 Overseas tax rate differences 7.7 9.6 Amortisation of intangibles 3.2 3.5 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3.4 3.4 Disposal of continuing operations 1.5 2.4 Deferred tax written-off 16.6 Deferred tax assets not recognised 3.5 0.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5.6 3.9 Joint venture tax 0.2 0.3 Total income tax costs 43.8 44.4 Cookson Group plc { 74 } Annual Report 2006 15.
NET POST-TAX LOSS ON DISPOSAL OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 2006 2005 m m Loss on disposal of Laminates 5.8 52.5 Loss profit on disposal of SCS 0.2 10.8 Profit on disposal of Speedline 2.7 Total net post-tax loss on disposal of discontinued operations note 42 3.3 41.7 On 15 December 2005, the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell its Laminates business, which previously formed part of its Electronics division, to ISOLA Group S. A. R. L, with completion of the transaction expected in the first half of 2006.
Accordingly, with effect from 31 December 2005, the assets and liabilities of the Laminates business were classified in the Group balance sheet as held for sale and measured at fair value less costs to sell, resulting in a loss in 2005 of 52.5m, after a related tax credit of 0.6m.
In 2006, a further loss of 5.8m was incurred on the completion of the disposal on 21 April 2006.
On 31 December 2005, the Group sold its Specialty Coating Systems SCS business, which previously formed part of the Assembly Materials sector of the Electronics division, to Bunker Hill Capital for 29.4m, resulting in a profit on disposal in 2005 of 10.8m, after a related tax charge of 5.7m.
During 2006, a further 0.2m of disposal costs were incurred.
As part of the sale of the Groups former Speedline business in 2003 to KPS, an equity fund, the sale agreement provided for the Group to receive further consideration from KPS contingent upon Speedline being sold in the future for more than a specified sum.
In December 2006 Speedline was sold by KPS for an amount in excess of the specified sum and accordingly a profit of 2.7m has been recognised in 2006.
There was no tax charge or credit associated with the net post-tax loss on disposal of discontinued operations in 2006 2005: net tax charge of 5.1m.
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations were as follows: 2006 2005 m m Operating activities 5.5 7.5 Investing activities 0.7 6.7 Financing activities 6.6 0.9 Total net cash flows 12.8 0.1 16.
DIVIDENDS 2006 2005 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders during the year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2005 of 5.0p per ordinary share 9.6 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 3.0p per ordinary share 5.8 Total dividends paid in the year 15.4 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 7.0p 2005: 5.0p per ordinary share 13.5 9.5 The proposed final dividend for the year of 7.0p 2005: 5.0p per ordinary share is subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 11 June 2007 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 25 May 2007.
Cookson Group plc { 75 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17.
EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS Total Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued 2005 operations operations 2006 operations operations restated pence pence pence pence pence pence Basic EPS 30.6 2.2 32.8 13.1 18.9 5.8 Diluted EPS 30.4 2.2 32.6 13.0 18.8 5.8 Headline EPS 42.6 4.0 46.6 31.7 5.1 36.8 Diluted headline EPS 42.3 4.0 46.3 31.5 5.1 36.6 Total Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued 2005 operations operations 2006 operations operations restated m m m m m m Earnings Earnings for the purposes of calculating basic and diluted EPS being net profit attributable to parent company equity holders 58.6 4.3 62.9 24.6 35.6 11.0 Adjustments: Rationalisation of operating activities 34.6 0.1 34.7 13.4 5.1 18.5 Profit loss relating to non-current assets 13.1 13.1 1.9 1.9 Curtailment gains relating to employee benefits 8.5 0.1 8.6 Write-off of prepaid debt-raising fees 1.2 1.2 Loss on disposal of continuing operations 4.7 4.7 2.9 2.9 Net post-tax loss on disposal of discontinued operations 3.3 3.3 41.7 41.7 Net write-off of tax assets and provisions 16.6 16.6 Tax relating to the above adjustments 5.3 5.3 0.8 0.2 0.6 Earnings for the purposes of headline EPS 81.6 7.6 89.2 59.8 9.5 69.3 2006 2005 m m Number of shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic EPS 191.5 188.5 Adjustments for diluted weighted average number of shares relating to the Companys share schemes 1.3 1.1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted EPS 192.8 189.6 For the purposes of calculating diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares is adjusted to include the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Potential ordinary shares are only treated as dilutive when their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease earnings per share, or increase loss per share, from continuing operations.
In addition to the 1.3m 2005: 1.1m shares shown in the table above as being dilutive, the Company had an additional 1.9m 2005: 6.0m of potential ordinary shares outstanding at the end of the year that could dilute EPS in the future, but were not included in the calculation of diluted EPS above because they were antidilutive in the years presented.
As disclosed in note 3.3 b, charges in respect of the amortisation and impairment of intangibles were previously disclosed in the Group income statement as a separate component of profit from operations, outside of trading profit and added back as an adjustment in arriving at earnings for the purposes of headline EPS.
Accordingly, they are now classified as a component of trading profit within administration, selling and distribution costs.
Comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2005 have been restated accordingly, reducing earnings for the purposes of headline EPS attributable to discontinued operations by 0.8m and reducing both headline and diluted headline EPS attributable to discontinued operations by 0.4p.
Cookson Group plc { 76 } Annual Report 2006 18.
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 2005 restated 2006 note 3 m m Profit from operations 145.2 116.2 Adjustments for: Rationalisation of operating activities 34.7 18.5 Profit relating to non-current assets 13.1 Curtailment gains relating to employee benefits 8.6 Depreciation and amortisation 37.0 47.9 EBITDA 195.2 182.6 Increase in inventories 14.9 9.1 Increase in trade receivables 22.5 10.7 Increase decrease in trade payables 10.2 3.9 Net increase in trade working capital 27.2 23.7 Net outflows related to assets and liabilities classified as held for sale 7.2 Outflows related to rationalisation of operating activities 16.1 17.0 Additional funding contributions into Group pension plans 25.5 10.0 Other operating outflows 2.0 19.6 Cash generated from operations 117.2 112.3 19.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2006 2005 m m Short-term deposits 68.0 Cash at bank and in hand 43.9 65.9 Cash and short-term deposits 111.9 65.9 Bank overdrafts 6.9 2.4 Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 105.0 63.5 20.
RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT Balance Balance as at 1 as at 31 January Exchange Non-cash December 2006 adjustments movements Cash flow 2006 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents: Short-term deposits 68.0 68.0 Cash at bank and in hand 65.9 7.8 14.2 43.9 Bank overdrafts 2.4 0.1 4.4 6.9 49.4 Borrowings, excluding bank overdrafts: Current 13.9 2.0 92.0 6.5 97.4 Non-current 343.0 38.8 92.0 23.4 188.8 Capitalised borrowing costs 1.1 0.4 0.7 29.9 Net debt 292.3 32.9 0.4 79.3 180.5 Net debt is a measure that shows the Groups net indebtedness to banks and other external financial institutions and comprises the total of cash and short-term deposits and current and non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Cookson Group plc { 77 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Freehold Leasehold Plant and Construction property property machinery in progress Total m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 2005 158.2 29.8 522.5 18.0 728.5 Exchange adjustments 11.3 2.5 33.3 1.8 48.9 Additions capital expenditure 0.7 0.8 27.2 14.3 43.0 Disposals sales and scrappings 19.9 0.5 34.4 54.8 Disposals businesses 1.9 0.5 10.3 0.3 13.0 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 22.8 9.3 84.2 2.9 119.2 Reclassifications 2.0 18.7 20.7 As at 1 January 2006 127.6 22.8 472.8 10.2 633.4 Exchange adjustments 9.9 2.5 27.8 1.1 41.3 Additions capital expenditure 4.5 1.0 27.3 9.5 42.3 Disposals sales and scrappings 5.7 0.9 32.9 0.1 39.6 Disposals businesses 4.2 13.7 17.9 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 4.2 19.5 0.3 24.0 Reclassifications 2.3 1.7 2.0 6.0 As at 31 December 2006 110.4 22.1 408.2 12.2 552.9 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses As at 1 January 2005 64.5 8.0 333.1 405.6 Exchange adjustments 4.9 0.8 22.9 28.6 Depreciation charge 4.6 1.5 41.0 47.1 Disposals sales and scrappings 10.2 0.4 30.7 41.3 Disposals businesses 1.6 0.2 7.6 9.4 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 9.8 1.3 51.0 62.1 As at 1 January 2006 52.4 8.4 307.7 368.5 Exchange adjustments 3.6 1.4 18.5 23.5 Depreciation charge 3.1 1.3 32.6 37.0 Disposals sales and scrappings 0.2 0.8 24.0 25.0 Disposals businesses 1.1 6.3 7.4 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 2.5 16.6 19.1 Reclassifications 0.4 1.2 1.6 As at 31 December 2006 48.5 8.7 273.3 330.5 Net book value as at 31 December 2006 61.9 13.4 134.9 12.2 222.4 Net book value as at 31 December 2005 75.2 14.4 165.1 10.2 264.9 Net book value as at 1 January 2005 93.7 21.8 189.4 18.0 322.9 The net book value of assets held under finance leases as at 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005 was not material.
Cookson Group plc { 78 } Annual Report 2006 22.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Other intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Cost As at 1 January 2005 478.3 7.7 486.0 Exchange adjustments 37.4 0.8 38.2 Disposals businesses Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 26.6 8.5 35.1 As at 1 January 2006 481.6 481.6 Exchange adjustments 43.7 43.7 Disposals businesses 4.2 4.2 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 4.7 4.7 As at 31 December 2006 429.0 429.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses As at 1 January 2005 0.8 0.8 Amortisation charge 0.8 0.8 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 1.6 1.6 As at 1 January and 31 December 2006 Net book value as at 31 December 2006 429.0 429.0 Net book value as at 31 December 2005 481.6 481.6 Net book value as at 1 January 2005 478.3 6.9 485.2 The other intangible assets balance related to a perpetual licensing agreement of the Groups Laminates business in the US, which was being amortised over its estimated 10-year useful life.
It was transferred to assets classified as held for sale as at 31 December 2005 and subsequently disposed of in 2006.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units for this purpose are the business segments disclosed in note 6, which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored.
For the cash-generating units shown below, the carrying amount of goodwill is significant in relation to Groups total carrying amount of goodwill: 2006 2005 m m Ceramics 182.4 214.3 Electronics Chemistry 173.0 187.6 Other cash-generating units 73.6 79.7 Total goodwill 429.0 481.6 Cookson Group plc { 79 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued Impairment testing For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of the Groups cash-generating units is determined from valuein-use calculations, derived from discounted 5-year cash flow projections with a perpetuity calculation beyond the projection period, using pre-tax discount rates.
In assessing goodwill for potential impairment as at 31 December 2006, the Directors have made use of the most recent detailed calculations of the recoverable amount of the Groups cash-generating units, prepared as at 31 December 2005.
The Directors consider this to be appropriate as the assets and liabilities making up the cash-generating units have not changed significantly since those calculations were made: those calculations resulted in an amount that exceeded the carrying values of the cash-generating units by a substantial margin: and the likelihood that a current recoverable amount determination would be less than the current carrying amount of each cash-generating unit is remote.
In preparing the 5-year projections at 31 December 2005, both the anticipated impact of restructuring and rationalisation plans and market price trends and expected growth in output within the industries in which each major Group business unit operates, were taken into account.
A growth rate of 3% was used in the years beyond the projection period, which was in line with the long-term forecast GDP growth rates for the regions in which the Group operates.
Pre-tax discount rates were estimated reflecting market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to each cash-generating unit and were 12.4% for Ceramics, 12.0% for Assembly Materials, 12.9% for Chemistry and 11.7% for Precious Metals.
INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES The principal joint venture of the Group, in which it has a 50% interest, is Electroplating Engineers of Japan Ltd.
The Groups interests in its joint ventures are recognised using the equity method.
The aggregate amounts relating to these interests were as follows: 2006 2005 m m Share of current assets 17.2 18.9 Share of non-current assets 0.1 0.4 Share of current liabilities 5.4 5.6 Share of non-current liabilities 0.3 0.6 As at 31 December 11.6 13.1 Share of revenue 57.7 46.9 Share of post-tax profit 1.4 1.4 24.
INVESTMENTS 2005 2006 restated m m Available-for-sale investments 15.8 19.7 Available-for-sale investments principally comprise assets held in Rabbi Trusts and listed equity securities, which are accounted for in accordance with the policies in note 3.20 c. The Rabbi Trust assets, which in 2005 were reported within derivative financial instruments note 3.3 f, are held to fund certain non-qualified US pension plan obligations and are not included within pension plan assets as they are available to satisfy creditors in the event of the winding-up of the Group company in which they are held.
Cookson Group plc { 80 } Annual Report 2006 25.
DEFERRED TAX Accelerated Other capital Tax Unrelieved Pension timing allowances losses interest costs Goodwill differences Total m m m m m m m As at 1 January 2005 9.1 33.8 21.3 4.0 37.4 3.3 15.9 Exchange adjustments 0.3 4.8 1.1 0.1 5.8 1.0 0.9 Credit charge to income statement 3.6 26.0 22.4 4.0 31.5 6.1 23.4 As at 1 January 2006 5.8 12.6 0.1 11.7 1.8 6.6 Exchange adjustments 0.2 0.2 1.8 0.3 1.5 Credit charge to income statement note 14 3.7 6.1 1.8 3.1 1.7 5.4 As at 31 December 2006 1.9 6.3 1.9 13.0 3.8 10.5 2006 2005 m m Deferred tax assets 11.3 15.0 Deferred tax liabilities 21.8 21.6 Net deferred tax liabilities 10.5 6.6 The 5.4m charge to the income statement for 2006 is all included within the income tax costs shown in note 14.
Of the 23.4m charge to the income statement in 2005, 18.3m was charged within income tax costs note 14 and 5.1m was charged in arriving at the net post-tax loss on disposal of discontinued operations note 15.
The total deferred tax asset not recognised as at 31 December 2006 was 352.4m 2005 restated: 395.6m.
This consisted of 58.3m 2005: 64.3m relating to capital losses, 141.5m 2005: 143.0m relating to operating losses, 68.9m 2005: 67.8m relating to unrelieved interest, 70.6m 2005 restated: 107.4m relating to other categories and 13.1m 2005: 13.1m relating to UK ACT tax credits.
In accordance with the accounting policy in note 3.11, these items have not been recognised in the above analysis on the basis that their future economic benefit is not probable.
In total, there was a decrease of 43.2m 2005: increase of 46.4m in net unrecognised deferred tax assets during the year.
Comparative figures for 2005 have been restated to reflect the deferred tax asset not recognised in relation to the UK pension deficit on a consistent basis with 2006.
As at 31 December 2006, the Group had total operating losses carried forward with a tax value of 147.8m.
This total includes 62.9m for losses which are available to offset future taxable US income, of which approximately 6.0m will expire in 2020 and the remainder will expire between 2022 and 2026.
A further 63.2m of losses are available to offset future UK taxable income and may be carried forward without time limit.
The remaining losses with a value of 21.7m include 18.6m which may be carried forward indefinitely and 3.1m which has a maximum life of between 7 and 15 years.
The amounts arise in a number of countries and are not individually significant, reflecting the spread of the Groups operations.
As at 31 December 2006, the Group had US unrelieved interest with a tax value of 68.9m, which may be carried forward indefinitely.
As at 31 December 2006, the Group had UK capital losses carried forward with a tax value of 58.3m.
These losses are available to offset future UK capital gains and may be carried forward without time limit.
As at 31 December 2006, the Group had total US tax credits carried forward with a tax value of 6.8m.
This includes 2.0m of research and experimentation credits which expire between 2018 and 2026 and 4.8m of foreign tax credits expiring between 2009 and 2016.
As at 31 December 2006, the Group had UK ACT tax credits carried forward with a tax value of 13.1m, which may be carried forward indefinitely.
Cookson Group plc { 81 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2006 2005 m m Non-current: Other receivables 9.8 8.7 Current: Trade receivables 263.7 267.2 Other receivables 22.6 13.2 Prepayments and accrued income 16.7 13.6 Total current receivables 303.0 294.0 The fair values of trade and other receivables are the same as the carrying values shown above.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of customers, none of whom represents a significant proportion of the outstanding receivables balance.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet for trade receivables are net of allowances for uncollectible receivables, in respect of which in 2006 2.1m 2005: 4.0m has been charged to the income statement.
INVENTORIES 2006 2005 m m Raw materials 67.0 71.5 Work-in-progress 23.3 28.9 Finished goods 80.9 79.2 Total inventories 171.2 179.6 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales in the income statement during the year was 797.4m 2005: 743.2m.
In addition to the inventory recorded in the balance sheet, the Group held precious metals on consignment terms with a total value as at 31 December 2006 of 236.6m 2005: 228.5m.
As at 31 December 2006, metal held under consignment comprised 564,148 ounces of gold 2005: 599,001 ounces, 6,063,106 ounces of silver 2005: 6,714,921 ounces, 17,746 ounces of platinum 2005: 22,118 ounces and 16,022 ounces of palladium 2005: 17,370 ounces.
The Group also held precious metals on behalf of customers for processing, the value of which as at 31 December 2006 was 84.4m 2005: 66.8m.
The Groups precious metals fabrication operations utilise significant amounts of precious metals, being primarily gold by value.
These metals are predominantly held on consignment under arrangements the terms of which provide, inter alia, that the consignor retains title to the metal and has a right of return over the metal without penalty.
Consignors are party to either committed or uncommitted arrangements.
Under uncommitted arrangements, the consignor is under no obligation to supply the precious metal to the Groups fabrication operations and has the right, with limited or in some cases no notice, to demand physical return of the consigned metal.
The metal which the Group fabricates for its customers may be purchased by the Group from the consignor and sold concurrently to the customer, or may be consigned or sold directly from the consignor to the Groups customers, with the Group charging customers only for the fabrication process.
Both of these methods used to supply metal for fabrication by the Group eliminate the Groups exposure to the risk of market fluctuations in metals prices.
As the consignors retain title and associated risks and benefits of ownership under these arrangements, the physical metal so held is not recorded in the Group balance sheet.
Consignment fees are charged by the consignor and totalled 4.2m in 2006 2005: 5.7m.
Cookson Group plc { 82 } Annual Report 2006 28.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2006 2005 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Net investment hedges 1.6 5.9 3.6 Cash flow hedges 0.1 0.2 0.1 Total derivative financial instruments 1.7 6.1 3.7 Derivative financial instruments comprise forward foreign exchange contracts, which are designated as either net investment hedges or cash flow hedges, and are accounted for in accordance with the accounting policies in note 4.2.
Forward foreign exchange contracts designated as net investment hedges, together with debt denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling note 36, are used to provide a hedge against the Groups exposure to changes in the value of its investment in the net assets of its foreign operations that arise from fluctuations in exchange rates.
Both net investment hedges and cash flow hedges are short-dated and are expected to mature within a year of the balance sheet date.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE On 18 December 2006, the Group entered into an agreement with RHI AG to sell Monofrax Inc. a US-based manufacturer of fused-cast refractory products representing a separate major line of business within the Ceramics division.
The transaction was completed on 1 February 2007 note 45 and accordingly, the related assets and liabilities of Monofrax Inc. were classified as held for sale as at 31 December 2006.
On 15 December 2005, the Group entered into an agreement to sell its Laminates business to ISOLA Group S. A. R. L. Accordingly, the related assets and liabilities of the Laminates business were classified as held for sale as at 31 December 2005 and remeasured at fair value less costs to sell.
The losses incurred on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell, and on the completion of the disposal on 21 April 2006, are shown in note 15.
2006 2005 m m Assets held for sale: Property, plant and equipment 5.6 38.4 Intangible assets 4.7 4.5 Inventories 5.0 10.7 Trade and other receivables 3.3 33.6 Total assets held for sale 18.6 87.2 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2.1 Employee benefits 3.4 0.1 Trade and other payables 2.4 33.6 Deferred tax liabilities 0.4 Income tax payable 0.4 Total liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 5.8 36.6 Cookson Group plc { 83 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
SHARE CAPITAL continued At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 12 January 2006, shareholders approved special resolutions to reduce the issued share capital of the Company by cancelling and extinguishing all of the existing deferred shares of 49p each.
The cancellation of the deferred shares became effective on 15 February 2006 upon registration of the order of the High Court with the Registrar of Companies, at which date the balance of 356.5m on the account became a non-distributable reserve of the Company reported within other retained earnings note 15 to the Company financial statements.
This reserve becomes distributable only at such time when all external creditors of the Company as at 15 February 2006 have either been fully settled, or have agreed that this reserve may be deemed distributable.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company and rank equally with regard to entitlement to the Companys residual assets.
The deferred shares carried no right to dividends or voting and were effectively worthless.
Also at the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 12 January 2006, shareholders approved a special resolution to amend the Companys Articles of Association to facilitate termination of the Companys registration with the Securities Exchange Commission SEC of the US.
The amendment included a provision conferring upon the Board the power to require ordinary shares which are held directly or indirectly by US resident shareholders to be sold in order to reduce the number of such shareholders below 300, as presently required by the SEC for termination of registration.
The Board commenced exercising these compulsory transfer provisions soon after the amendment was approved by shareholders and, having reduced the number of US resident shareholders below 300, the Company announced on 21 February 2006 that it had filed a Form 15 with the SEC to terminate the SEC registration of its ordinary shares, with SEC deregistration occurring on 22 May 2006.
On filing of the Form, the Companys obligations to file certain forms and reports with the SEC, including Forms 20-F and 6-K, were suspended.
Under currently applicable SEC regulations, after the deregistration, the number of the Companys US resident shareholders must remain below 300 at each financial year-end to avoid recommencement of SEC reporting and other applicable US obligations.
The Companys Articles of Association give the Companys Directors the ability to limit the number of US resident shareholders for this purpose.
SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT m As at 1 January 2005 643.4 Arising on exercise of share options 2.1 As at 1 January 2006 645.5 Cancellation of share premium 646.9 Arising on exercise of share options 7.7 As at 31 December 2006 6.3 At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 12 January 2006, shareholders approved a special resolution to cancel the share premium account of the Company.
The cancellation became effective on 15 February 2006 upon registration of the order of the High Court with the Registrar of Companies, at which date the balance of 646.9m on the account became a non-distributable reserve of the Company reported within other retained earnings note 15 to the Company financial statements.
Cookson Group plc { 85 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
OTHER RESERVES Investment revaluation Translation reserve reserve Total m m m As at 1 January 2005 2.6 10.9 8.3 Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations 73.8 73.8 Net investment hedges 29.9 29.9 Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments 2.2 2.2 As at 1 January 2006 4.8 33.0 37.8 Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations 80.3 80.3 Net investment hedges 25.3 25.3 Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.2 As at 31 December 2006 5.0 22.0 17.0 Investment revaluation reserve Available-for-sale investments are carried in the Group balance sheet at fair value and remeasured at each balance sheet date.
Changes in fair value from one balance sheet date to the next are recorded in the investment revaluation reserve, together with any related tax.
When the investment is derecognised the cumulative amount relating to it in the investment revaluation reserve, together with any related tax, is recognised in the income statement.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences attributable to the equity holders of the parent company that arise from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and from the translation of financial instruments that hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
In addition to foreign exchange differences attributable to the equity holders of the parent company, the Group statement of recognised income and expense also includes foreign exchange differences attributable to minority interests note 34.
RETAINED EARNINGS Other Total Treasury Share option retained retained shares reserve earnings earnings m m m m As at 1 January 2005 12.4 3.2 550.8 560.0 Loss for the year 11.0 11.0 Actuarial loss on employee benefits plans 41.1 41.1 Recognition of share-based payments 2.3 2.3 As at 1 January 2006 12.4 5.5 602.9 609.8 Profit for the year 62.9 62.9 Actuarial gain on employee benefits plans 21.8 21.8 Recognition of share-based payments 2.4 2.4 Disposal of treasury shares 4.0 3.1 0.9 Release of share option reserve on exercised options 3.3 3.3 Reduction of capital note 30 356.5 356.5 Cancellation of share premium note 31 646.9 646.9 Dividends paid 15.4 15.4 As at 31 December 2006 8.4 4.6 470.0 466.2 The Treasury shares shown in the table above are ordinary shares of 10p each of the Company and are held by Cookson Investments Jersey Limited as Trustee of the Cookson Group ESOP note 15 to the Company financial statements.
Cookson Group plc { 86 } Annual Report 2006 34.
MINORITY INTERESTS 2006 2005 m m As at 1 January 12.7 11.7 Exchange adjustments 0.8 0.1 Minority interest in profit for the year 3.5 3.4 Dividends paid to minority shareholders 3.1 2.3 Acquisition of minority interest note 41 2.9 As at 31 December 9.4 12.7 35.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS Non-current Current Total 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m m m Loans 188.0 341.5 103.2 14.1 291.2 355.6 Obligations under finance leases 0.8 1.5 1.1 2.2 1.9 3.7 Capitalised borrowing costs 0.7 1.1 0.7 1.1 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 188.1 341.9 104.3 16.3 292.4 358.2 Fixed Floating 2006 Fixed Floating 2005 rate rate Total rate rate Total m m m m m m The borrowings are repayable as follows: On demand or within one year 92.0 12.3 104.3 16.3 16.3 In the second year 1.6 1.6 104.8 1.5 106.3 In the third year 20.4 0.6 21.0 0.6 0.6 In the fourth year 69.0 69.0 23.3 23.4 46.7 In the fifth year 78.6 78.6 After five years 97.1 0.1 97.2 110.8 110.8 Capitalised borrowing costs 0.4 0.3 0.7 0.7 0.4 1.1 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 278.1 14.3 292.4 316.8 41.4 358.2 Less: amount repayable within one year 92.0 12.3 104.3 16.3 16.3 Amount repayable in more than one year 186.1 2.0 188.1 316.8 25.1 341.9 Total capitalised borrowing costs, including those in respect of the syndicated bank facility and the senior loan notes, which have been treated as a reduction in borrowings in the accounts, amounted to 0.7m as at 31 December 2006 2005: 1.1m of which 0.4m related to the senior loan notes and 0.3m related to the syndicated bank facility.
2006 2005 Present value of minimum finance lease obligations: m m Due within one year 1.1 2.2 Due between one and five years 0.8 1.5 Total present value of minimum finance lease obligations 1.9 3.7 Cookson Group plc { 87 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 36.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 36.1 FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties and is calculated by reference to market rates discounted to current value.
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing rates translated at year-end exchange rates.
Comparative figures for 2005 in the table below have been restated for the presentation of bank overdrafts note 3.3. e. 2006 2005 Book Fair Book value Fair value value value restated restated m m m m Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term borrowings 103.2 104.5 14.1 14.1 Long-term portion of long-term borrowings 188.0 207.8 341.5 378.1 Obligations under finance leases 1.9 1.9 3.7 3.7 Capitalised borrowing costs 0.7 1.1 Gross borrowings before forward foreign exchange contracts 292.4 314.2 358.2 395.9 Forward foreign exchange contracts 4.3 4.3 3.6 3.6 Gross borrowings after forward foreign exchange contracts 296.7 318.5 354.6 392.3 Cash and short-term deposits note 19 111.9 111.9 65.9 65.9 Net debt including forward foreign exchange contracts 184.8 206.6 288.7 326.4 36.2 INTEREST RATE EXPOSURE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The interest rate and currency profiles of the Groups borrowings are set out below.
The figures are shown after taking into account the current portion of the senior loan notes, which are included in floating rate financial liabilities, and the effect of forward foreign exchange contracts, which are used to manage the currency profile of the Groups net debt and which are shown separately from borrowings in the Group balance sheet.
Financial 2006 Financial liabilities gross borrowings assets Net cash and financial Fixed Floating short-term assets rate rate Total deposits liabilities m m m m m Sterling 4.4 4.4 50.1 45.7 United States Dollar 186.5 99.9 86.6 6.1 80.5 Euro 108.0 108.0 6.6 101.4 Chinese Renminbi 35.3 35.3 21.8 13.5 Japanese Yen 18.5 18.5 0.8 17.7 Other 43.9 43.9 26.5 17.4 As at 31 December 2006 186.5 110.2 296.7 111.9 184.8 Cookson Group plc { 88 } Annual Report 2006 36.2 INTEREST RATE EXPOSURE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES continued Financial 2005 Financial liabilities gross borrowings assets Net cash and financial Fixed Floating short-term assets rate rate Total deposits liabilities m m m m m Sterling 0.4 0.4 3.8 4.2 United States Dollar 317.5 81.9 235.6 30.6 205.0 Euro 93.8 93.8 4.7 89.1 Chinese Renminbi 7.7 7.7 Japanese Yen 22.2 22.2 1.0 21.2 Other 3.4 3.4 18.1 14.7 As at 31 December 2005 317.5 37.1 354.6 65.9 288.7 The financial assets shown in the tables above attract floating rate interest at the interbank offered rate of the appropriate currency, less a margin.
The floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at the interbank offered rate of the appropriate currency, plus a margin.
The fixed rate financial liabilities of 186.5m 2005: 317.5m have a weighted average interest rate of 7.9% 2005: 7.6% and a weighted average period for which the rate is fixed of 4.3 years 2005: 4.1 years.
Comparative figures for 2005 have been restated for the presentation of bank overdrafts note 3.3 e. 36.3 CURRENCY EXPOSURE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The tables below show the net unhedged monetary assets and liabilities of Group companies that are not denominated in their functional currency and which therefore give rise to exchange gains and losses in the income statement.
Net unhedged monetary assets liabilities Sterling US Dollar Euro Other Total m m m m m Functional currency: Sterling 0.3 1.0 0.1 0.6 United States Dollar 0.3 0.6 0.3 Euro 1.1 2.3 0.5 1.7 Other 0.6 7.1 3.3 1.5 8.3 As at 31 December 2006 1.7 9.1 4.6 1.7 10.3 Net unhedged monetary assets liabilities Sterling US Dollar Euro Other Total m m m m m Functional currency: Sterling 0.4 0.8 0.4 United States Dollar 0.1 0.6 0.5 Euro 0.4 2.7 0.2 2.5 Other 0.7 8.0 5.7 1.9 11.1 As at 31 December 2005 1.0 10.3 5.9 1.2 14.0 Cookson Group plc { 89 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 36.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued 36.4 BORROWING FACILITIES Of the total borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn committed facilities amounted to 200.0m 2005: 176.7m, expiring in more than two years but not more than five years 2005: more than two years but not more than five years from the balance sheet date.
The Group had committed facilities of 478.5m as at 31 December 2006 2005: 517.5m.
The Groups nearterm borrowing requirements have been met by a committed syndicated bank facility of 200m 2005: 200m.
The facility was originally for a term of three years, with options to extend for a further two years.
In the period since 31 December 2006, the Group has exercised the last of these options to extend the facilitys maturity to 1 March 2010 on the same pricing and terms.
Borrowings under the facility, which is unsecured, are for general corporate purposes.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 37.1 GROUP POST-RETIREMENT PLANS The Group operates a number of pension plans around the world, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type, and accounts for them in accordance with IAS 19 as amended.
a Defined contribution pension plans The Groups principal defined contribution plans are in the UK and the US and the assets of the plans are held separately from the Group in trustee-administered funds.
The total expense for these plans in the income statement amounted to 7.0m 2005: 7.9m and represents the contributions payable for the year by the Group to the plans.
b Defined benefit pension plans The Groups principal defined benefit pension plans are in the UK and the US.
The assets of these plans are held separately from the Group in trustee-administered funds.
The Trustees are required to act in the best interests of the plans beneficiaries.
The Group also has defined benefit pension plans in other territories but these are not material in relation to the Group as a whole.
The Group has one main defined benefit pension plan in the UK the UK Plan.
A full actuarial valuation of the UK plan is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the plan Trustee and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2003.
At that date, the market value of plan assets was 179.6m and this represented 81% of accrued plan benefits at the time using the projected unit method of valuation.
The UK Plan was closed to new entrants from 2004.
Following the last full valuation of the plan, the Groups ordinary contributions were set at 11% of pensionable salaries.
In addition to these ordinary contributions, the Company agreed with the plan Trustee in February 2006 a repayment schedule that provides for additional funding payments of 25.5m in 2006 and 26.5m per annum from 2007 to 2010 with the aim of eliminating the plan deficit by 2011.
The Company monitors the plan funding level on a regular basis and will review annually with the plan Trustee the continued appropriateness of the repayment schedule currently in place.
The next full triennial valuation is due as at 31 December 2006.
The US has a number of defined benefit plans, providing retirement benefits based on final salary or a fixed benefit.
In addition, the Groups US Retirement Security Plan has characteristics similar to defined contribution plans but with a minimum performance level guaranteed by the Group on the members accounts.
The cash balance rate assumption in the table in note 37.2 a refers to the assumed minimum guaranteed return on members accounts.
From early in 2007, the Retirement Security Plan and the largest of the Groups US defined benefit plans are to be closed to new members and also to future benefit accruals for existing members.
Existing plan members are, in each case, being provided with future pension benefit through a defined contribution arrangement.
Actuarial valuations of the US defined benefit pension plans are carried out every year and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2005.
At that date the market value of the plan assets was 65.7m, representing 52% of accrued plan benefits at that date using the projected unit method of valuation.
Funding levels for the Groups US defined benefit pension plans are normally based upon annual valuations carried out by independent qualified actuaries and are governed by US government regulations.
c Other post-retirement defined benefit plans The Groups principal defined employee benefit plans other than pensions are healthcare benefit plans in the US and UK.
As is common for these types of plan, the costs of providing these benefits are not funded externally by the Group.
Cookson Group plc { 90 } Annual Report 2006 37.2 POST-RETIREMENT LIABILITY VALUATION ASSUMPTIONS a Principal actuarial valuation assumptions The assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Groups defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans, as shown in the table below, are set by the Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries.
The UK discount rate is based on the annualised yield on the iBoxx over 15-year AA-rated sterling corporate bond index.
The US discount rate is based on the equivalent iBoxx index for US domestic corporations.
The assumptions for price inflation are set by reference to the difference between yields on longer-term conventional government bonds and index-linked bonds.
The overall expected rate of return on plan assets reflects market expectations at the valuation date of long-term asset returns and the mix of assets in the plans.
Discount rate 5.12 5.89 4.75 5.50 Price inflation 3.10 2.50 2.80 2.60 Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 4.10 3.60 3.80 3.60 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.10 n a 2.70 n a Cash balance rate n a 5.25 n a 5.25 Long-term rate of return equities 8.20 8.30 7.60 8.00 bonds 5.30 4.10 5.00 money market instruments and swaps 4.80 Healthcare cost trend rate long-term 4.10 6.00 3.80 5.00 next year 8.00 11.00 8.00 10.50 b Mortality assumptions The mortality assumptions used in the actuarial valuations of the Groups UK and US defined benefit pension liabilities have been amended to assume that pensioners have a longer life expectancy.
The assumptions used are summarised in the table below and have been selected to reflect the characteristics and experience of the membership of those plans.
For the UK plan, the assumptions used have been derived by adjusting standard mortality tables which reflect recent research into mortality experience in the UK PA 92 tables projected forward with the medium cohort improvement factors and, in addition, by making adjustments to reflect the latest available trend information which indicates that life expectancy relating, in particular, to blue collar workers may not be improving as quickly as indicated by the standard tables.
Accordingly, based on an analysis of the mix of blue and white collar workers in the Groups UK plan and on the results of an investigation carried out on the mortality experience in the plan since 2003, the UK assumptions have been adjusted using a scaling factor of 112% to reflect a lower level of life expectancy amongst the blue collar membership.
The assumptions used in the 2005 valuation were based on the PA 92 tables combined with the short cohort improvement factors and a scaling factor of 118.75%.
For the Groups US plans, the assumptions used have been based on standard US mortality tables RP2000CH projected 40 years for non-pensioners and 25 years for pensioners using projection scale AA.
The assumptions used in the 2005 valuation were based on the UP-94 tables using projection scale AA.
2006 2005 UK US UK US Life expectancy of UK and US pension plan members: years years years years Age to which current pensioners are expected to live: Men 85.8 84.0 84.7 82.7 Women 88.6 86.4 87.4 85.6 Age to which future pensioners are expected to live: Men 86.5 85.1 85.4 83.5 Women 89.3 87.8 88.1 86.0 Cookson Group plc { 91 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 37.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued 37.2 POST-RETIREMENT LIABILITY VALUATION ASSUMPTIONS continued c Sensitivity analysis of key actuarial assumptions used The following table analyses, for the Groups UK and US pension plans, the estimated impact on plan liabilities resulting from changes to key actuarial assumptions, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
The figures in the table take no account of the new risk mitigation and asset allocation strategy implemented during 2006 in the Groups UK plan, details of which are given on pages 94 and 95, which has led to a significant reduction in the risk that the value of the UK plans assets falls materially relative to its liabilities and thus increases the stability of the IAS 19 funding ratio of the UK plan the ratio of plan assets to plan liabilities, which was 78% as at 31 December 2006.
For example, a 1% fall in long-term interest rates would have led to an approximate 10% change in the funding ratio under the previous investment strategy, whereas under the new investment strategy, the impact would be expected to be broadly neutral.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on UK plan liabilities Impact on US plan liabilities Discount rates Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 1.7% Increase decrease by 1.2% Price inflation Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 1.5% Increase decrease by 0.2% Mortality Increase by one year Increase by 3.7% Increase by 2.6% With regard to the Groups post-retirement healthcare benefit plans, a one percent increase in the healthcare cost trend rate assumptions shown in the table in note 37.2 a would increase the accumulated post-employment medical benefit obligation by 1.4m and increase post-employment medical benefit costs by 0.1m: a one percent decrease in the healthcare cost trend rate assumptions would reduce the obligation and costs by 1.3m and 0.1m respectively.
37.3 INCOME STATEMENT RECOGNITION The expense recognised in the income statement in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other postretirement benefit plans are as follows: Other Other Defined postDefined postbenefit retirement benefit retirement pension benefit 2006 pension benefit 2005 plans plans Total plans plans Total m m m m m m Current service cost 8.2 0.6 8.8 8.8 0.6 9.4 Past service cost 0.1 0.1 Interest on obligation 24.5 1.6 26.1 23.0 1.2 24.2 Expected return on plan assets 19.6 19.6 18.9 18.9 Curtailment gains 6.0 2.6 8.6 0.9 0.9 Settlement losses 0.3 0.3 Total expense 7.4 0.4 7.0 12.1 1.8 13.9 The actual return on plan assets was 22.5m 2005: 42.3m.
The total expense recognised in the income statement in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement benefit plans is recognised in the following lines: 2006 2005 m m Other manufacturing costs 4.7 5.1 Administration, selling and distribution costs 4.1 4.4 Curtailment gains relating to employee benefits 8.6 Finance costs 26.1 24.2 Finance income 19.6 18.9 Net post-tax loss on disposal of discontinued operations 0.3 0.9 Total expense 7.0 13.9 Curtailment gains of 8.6m 2005: nil result from reductions in liabilities arising from the closure of the Groups two largest US defined benefit pension plans to new members and the freezing of benefits for existing members, together with reductions in the level of benefits provided through certain of the Groups US post-retirement healthcare plans.
Cookson Group plc { 92 } Annual Report 2006 37.4 DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION The liabilities of the Groups defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans are measured by discounting the best estimate of the future cash flows to be paid out by the plans using the projected unit method.
The projected unit method is an accrued benefits valuation method in which the calculation of plan liabilities makes allowance for projected increases in benefit-related earnings.
These assets are not included within pension plan assets as they are available to satisfy creditors in the event of the winding-up of the Group company in which they are held and are reported as investments in the Group balance sheet.
The Group is expected to make aggregate contributions into its defined benefit pension plans of 35.2m in 2007.
This includes a special funding contribution of 26.5m into the UK defined benefit pension plan, although the level of this contribution is expected to be reviewed with the plan Trustee during the course of 2007.
The Group is also expected to make aggregate contributions in respect of its other post-retirement benefit plans of 2.0m in 2007.
37.6 RISK MITIGATION AND ASSET ALLOCATION STRATEGY a Risk mitigation strategy Following a review by the Company and the UK plan Trustee to consider how best to manage the plans exposure to major investment risks, a number of changes to the investment strategy of the UK plan were made during 2006.
The following were deemed to be the key investment risks which could affect the value of the plans assets compared to its liabilities: Interest rate risk the risk of long-term interest rates falling further, leading to an increase in the value of plan liabilities.
Inflation risk the risk of inflation rising faster than expected, leading to an increase in the value of plan liabilities.
Equity market risk the risk of significant equity market falls, leading to a fall in the value of plan assets.
In order to mitigate these key risks, the Trustee has entered into the following financial derivative arrangements: Interest rate swaps the UK plan receives a fixed rate of interest and pays out a variable rate of interest, based on the London Inter Bank Offered Rate LIBOR.
This is beneficial when long-term interest rates fall, significantly offsetting the corresponding increase in the value of the plans liabilities.
Inflation swaps the UK plan pays out a fixed rate of interest of around 3% per annum and receives payments linked to actual inflation.
This is beneficial when inflation increases faster than expected, and significantly offsets the corresponding increase in the value of the plans liabilities.
Equity derivatives using a combination of equity derivatives, the plan has protected its assets against the first 20% fall in equity market prices over the four year period from 1 December 2006.
Under these arrangements the plan foregoes any equity market price returns above about 6.5% per annum, but will continue to receive dividend payments and the benefit of any active management out-performance of its equity managers respective benchmark.
The interest rate and inflation swaps entered into were designed to mitigate interest rate and inflation risk for approximately 80% of the plans liabilities.
The new investment strategy implemented during 2006 has led to a large reduction in the risk that the value of the plans assets falls materially relative to the liabilities, thus increasing the stability of the IAS 19 funding ratio of the plan the ratio of plan assets to plan liabilities, which was 78% as at 31 December 2006.
For example, a 1% change in long-term interest rates would have led to an approximate 10% change in the funding ratio under the previous investment strategy, whereas under the new investment strategy, the impact would be expected to be broadly neutral.
Cookson Group plc { 94 } Annual Report 2006 37.6 RISK MITIGATION AND ASSET ALLOCATION STRATEGY continued b Asset allocation changes In December 2006, the UK plan Trustee sold all of the UK plans UK Government bonds.
The bonds were replaced with interest rate and inflation swaps, to take advantage of the material additional yield available in the swap market relative to gilts at the time.
The swaps are backed by short-term money market instruments typically AAA-rated very short-term debt to ensure a similar exposure to holding gilts.
As a result of this switch, the plan is expected to receive an additional yield of at least 0.25% per annum with very little additional risk.
The replacement of the plans gilts with interest rate and inflation swaps is not expected to have a material impact on the expected return on assets valuation assumption, which impacts the calculation of the pension charge in the Group income statement.
As at 31 December 2006, the UK plans assets were allocated 63% in equities of which 50% are UK and 50% overseas and 37% in money market instruments combined with interest rate and inflation swaps.
The target allocation currently provides for money market instruments to move to 40% of the plans assets and for 10% of the UK plans assets to be held in each of infrastructure investments and absolute return funds.
The target allocation to infrastructure is to be funded gradually from the UK plans equity holdings over the next two years.
The target allocation to absolute return funds is also due to be funded from the equity holdings, but during 2007.
Both of these asset types have been introduced to reduce further the exposure to equity market risk and to provide an alternative source of return which is not highly correlated with equity markets.
The swaps held in combination with the money market instruments are in addition to the interest rate swaps, inflation swaps and equity options in place as part of the risk mitigation strategy described above.
37.7 BALANCE SHEET RECOGNITION The amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement benefit plans is as follows: Other postDefined benefit pension plans retirement benefit 2006 UK US ROW Total plans Total m m m m m m Equities 174.3 38.7 1.4 214.4 214.4 Bonds 20.2 1.5 21.7 21.7 Money market instruments and swaps 101.5 101.5 101.5 Other 1.5 12.5 14.0 14.0 Fair value of plan assets 277.3 58.9 15.4 351.6 351.6 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 354.9 77.9 22.5 455.3 455.3 77.6 19.0 7.1 103.7 103.7 Present value of unfunded post-retirement benefit plans 0.7 20.8 6.5 28.0 23.4 51.4 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 78.3 39.8 13.6 131.7 23.4 155.1 Other postDefined benefit pension plans retirement benefit 2005 UK US ROW Total plans Total m m m m m m Equities 147.1 43.2 190.3 190.3 Bonds 93.8 22.3 1.5 117.6 117.6 Other 4.6 0.2 12.3 17.1 17.1 Fair value of plan assets 245.5 65.7 13.8 325.0 325.0 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 361.5 103.9 20.8 486.2 486.2 116.0 38.2 7.0 161.2 161.2 Present value of unfunded post-retirement benefit plans 1.4 22.9 7.3 31.6 32.0 63.6 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 117.4 61.1 14.3 192.8 32.0 224.8 Cookson Group plc { 95 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 37.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued 37.8 HISTORY The history of the fair value of the plan assets, the present value of defined benefit obligations, the deficit in the plans and the experience adjustments on plan assets and liabilities are shown below: Defined benefit pension plans Other post-retirement benefit plans 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m Fair value of plan assets 351.6 325.0 274.5 Present value of defined benefit obligations 483.3 517.8 433.2 23.4 32.0 31.2 Deficit 131.7 192.8 158.7 23.4 32.0 31.2 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 23.1 6.4 10.7 2.2 0.7 1.8 Experience gains on plan assets 2.9 23.4 11.4 The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense is 46.1m 2005: 67.9m.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 38.1 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT SCHEMES The Group operates a number of different share-based payment schemes.
The main features of each scheme are outlined below.
a Long-term incentive plan LTIP At the 2004 AGM of the Company, shareholders approved a new LTIP to replace the Mid-Term Incentive Plan MTIP and the executive share option schemes, both of which are being phased out.
The LTIP has two elements.
Firstly, executives who are eligible receive a conditional annual award of shares worth up to a prescribed percentage of their base salary Performance Shares.
Secondly, executives who are eligible can elect to invest all or part of their annual incentive in ordinary shares of the Company Bonus Investment Shares in return for which they receive a conditional award of ordinary shares equal in value to the pre-tax equivalent of the annual incentive so invested Matching Shares.
Performance Shares and Matching Shares vest after three years, with the proportion of shares vesting being based on the Companys TSR performance over that three-year period relative to that of the constituent companies of its comparator group.
For awards made during the year, the comparator group used for the Company was the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
This performance measure was chosen to enhance the link between the interests of the Groups senior executives, including the executive Directors, and shareholders.
Vesting of the Performance Shares and Matching Shares will be as follows: TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Matching Shares vesting ratio excluding Investment Trusts Performance Shares vesting percentage Matching Shares: Bonus Investment Shares Below median 0% 0 Median 25% 0.5:1 Upper quintile top 20% 100% 2.25:1 Between median and upper quintile Pro rata between 25% and 100% Pro rata between 0.5:1 and 2.25:1 An executives Matching Shares award will only vest if the Bonus Investment Shares originally purchased have been retained.
No Performance Shares or Matching Shares vest for below median performance.
The fair value of awards granted under the LTIP is measured using a stochastic pricing model.
b Mid-term incentive plan MTIP Under the MTIP, executives were eligible to receive a bonus, paid partly in cash and partly in ordinary shares of the Company, the beneficial receipt of which was deferred for two years from the date of the award restricted shares, based upon the achievement of target financial performance measured over a three-year period.
Performance targets based on either the Groups cumulative profit or cumulative profit and cash flow performance were set by the Remuneration Committee for each three-year MTIP period.
The MTIP operated on a rolling three-year basis and the final remaining cycle culminated at the end of 2005.
The fair value of awards granted under the MTIP is measured using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
Cookson Group plc { 96 } Annual Report 2006 38.1 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT SCHEMES continued c Executive share option schemes ESOS The last executive share option grant was made in 2003.
Under these schemes, share options were granted at the market price prevailing at the time of grant.
Options normally only became exercisable if the growth in headline earnings per share was at least equal to the increase in the UK Retail Price Index plus 3% per annum 2% per annum for options granted in 1995 and 1996 for a consecutive three year period.
The fair value of awards granted under the ESOS was measured using a stochastic pricing model.
d UK and international Sharesave schemes SAYE schemes The last grant under the SAYE schemes was made in 2004.
Under the SAYE schemes, employees had the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the Group at a discounted price of up to 20% by using their savings together with an additional tax free bonus at the end of their saving period.
The schemes operated in conjunction with a three or five-year savings contract and options were granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the shares at the date of grant.
Employees who entered into these contracts had to make monthly savings of between 5 and 250.
The fair value of awards granted under the SAYE schemes was measured using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
e US Stock Purchase Plan USSPP The last grant under the USSPP was made in 2004.
An eligible employee who applied for an option under the USSPP agreed to savings being deducted from their net pay.
Regular deductions were made over a one-year period not more than US$5,000 in any year.
Shares were only acquired under the USSPP on exercise of the option using the savings together with interest on such savings.
The price payable for each ordinary share was the price in sterling determined by the Directors, provided that it was not less than 85% of the middle market quotation of the ordinary shares on the date of grant.
An option grant under the USSPP was exercisable not later than 18 months after the date of grant provided the option holder was still employed by the Group.
The fair value of awards granted under the USSPP was measured using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
f Stock Appreciation Rights SAR Due to the disadvantageous tax regime in Belgium, Belgian participants in the ESOS and SAYE schemes receive SAR instead of share options.
These SAR were awarded under exactly the same rights and conditions as the share options, except that individuals received, in cash, the difference between the subscription price and market price of Cookson Group plc shares on the date of exercise, rather than having the right to purchase shares.
38.2 IFRS 2 DISCLOSURES The Company has followed the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 and applied it to those options that were granted after 7 November 2002 and which had not vested by 1 January 2005.
The following disclosures are only in respect of those options that fall within the scope of IFRS 2.
The exercise prices shown in the following tables are the weighted average exercise prices.
Outstanding options Options exercisable Earliest Latest As at 31 as at 31 year in year in Range of As at 1 Forfeited December December which which exercise January 2006 Granted Exercised lapsed 2006 2006 options options prices No.
The weighted average share price during 2006 was 532p 2005: 349p.
Cookson Group plc { 97 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued 38.2 IFRS 2 DISCLOSURES continued Outstanding options Options exercisable Earliest Latest As at 31 as at 31 year in year in Range of As at 1 Forfeited December December which which exercise January 2005 Granted Exercised lapsed 2005 2005 options options prices No.
Options granted during 2006 LTIP MTIP Fair value of options granted per share 429p 504p Share price on date of grant per share 546p 513p Expected volatility 70.9% n a Risk-free interest rate 4.4% n a Exercise price per share nil nil Expected term years 3.00 1.75 Expected dividend yield 1.0% 1.0% Options granted during 2005 LTIP MTIP Fair value of options granted per share 227p 395p Share price on date of grant per share 329p 395p Expected volatility 70.8% n a Risk-free interest rate 4.4% n a Exercise price per share nil nil Expected term years 3.00 1.75 Expected dividend yield nil nil Share price volatility is based upon weekly movements in the Companys share price over a period prior to the grant date that is equal in length to the expected term of the award and for an additional rolling five year period prior to that.
Cookson Group plc { 98 } Annual Report 2006 38.2 IFRS 2 DISCLOSURES continued The total expense recognised in the income statement for each of the share-based payment schemes, charged within administration, distribution and selling costs, was as follows: 2006 2005 m m LTIP 1.9 0.9 MTIP 0.3 0.4 ESOS 0.1 0.9 SAYE 0.1 0.3 USSPP 0.3 SAR 0.7 0.4 Total expense 3.1 3.2 The total intrinsic value at the end of the year for cash-settled share based payments that had vested was 0.5m 2005: 0.7m.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2006 2005 m m Non-current: Deferred purchase consideration 2.1 Accruals and other creditors 19.5 33.4 Total non-current payables 19.5 35.5 Current: Trade payables 131.2 132.2 Other taxes and social security 22.9 24.0 Accruals and other creditors 87.2 91.9 Deferred purchase consideration 0.6 1.1 Total current payables 241.9 249.2 Included within accruals and other creditors are liabilities in respect of cash-settled share-based payments of 0.5m 2005: 0.7m.
Cookson Group plc { 99 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 40.
PROVISIONS Disposal and closure Rationalisation costs costs Other Total m m m m As at 1 January 2006 17.9 12.7 1.1 31.7 Exchange adjustments 2.1 1.7 0.1 3.9 Charged to income statement 18.5 24.4 0.9 42.0 Cash spend 7.1 16.1 0.1 23.3 Reclassifications transfers 8.7 8.7 As at 31 December 2006 27.2 19.3 8.7 55.2 2006 2005 m m Analysed as: Non-current 22.5 11.1 Current 32.7 20.6 Total provisions 55.2 31.7 The provision for disposal and closure costs includes the Directors current best estimates of the costs to be incurred both in the fulfilment of obligations undertaken in connection with former Group businesses, resulting from either disposal or closure, together with those related to the demolition and clean-up of closed sites.
The provision comprises amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims, including claims relating to product liability.
As the settlement of many of the obligations for which provision is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing of the associated outflows is subject to some uncertainty, but the majority of the amounts provided are expected to be utilised over the next five years and the underlying estimates of costs are regularly updated to reflect changed circumstances with regard to individual matters.
The provision for rationalisation costs is used to manage the costs of all of the Groups initiatives to rationalise its operating activities.
The balance of 19.3m as at 31 December 2006 relates to future expenditure on rationalisation initiatives, the majority of which commenced in 2005 and 2006 and is expected to be spent over the course of the next two years.
Other provisions comprise amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims.
The closing balance of other provisions relates to items previously reported within other payables, which the Directors believe should more appropriately be reported as other provisions.
Where insurance cover exists for any of these known or probable costs, a related asset is recognised in the Group balance sheet when its realisation is virtually certain.
At 31 December 2006, 6.4m was recorded in receivables in respect of associated insurance reimbursements, of which 4.8m is non-current.
The amounts reported in the table above as charged to the income statement represent only that part of the total income statement charge which should be reported as a movement on the relevant provisions, other components of which, such as asset write-offs, are reported within the relevant balance sheet line item.
ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES, NET OF CASH ACQUIRED During the year a total of 4.1m was paid, in cash, in respect of deferred consideration for subsidiaries acquired in prior years and the buy-out of a 49% minority shareholding in a Chinese subsidiary of the Electronics division.
No further assets or liabilities were acquired by the Group as a result of these transactions.
Cookson Group plc { 100 } Annual Report 2006 42.
DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations 2006 operations operations 2005 m m m m m m Net consideration: Net proceeds received 14.5 51.7 66.2 2.4 28.0 30.4 Proceeds receivable 5.9 2.7 8.6 Disposal costs payable 5.9 1.1 7.0 1.0 5.7 6.7 Total net consideration 14.5 53.3 67.8 1.4 22.3 23.7 Assets and liabilities disposed of: Property, plant and equipment 10.5 10.5 1.3 2.3 3.6 Attributable goodwill 4.2 4.2 1.3 6.2 7.5 Interests in joint ventures and other investments 0.6 0.6 0.8 0.8 Inventories 4.3 4.3 1.0 1.9 2.9 Trade and other receivables 3.1 3.1 0.7 2.6 3.3 Trade and other payables 3.5 3.5 2.7 2.7 Assets previously classified as held for sale see below 88.3 88.3 Liabilities previously classified as held for sale see below 31.7 31.7 Net assets disposed of 19.2 56.6 75.8 4.3 11.1 15.4 Impairment arising on transfer of Laminates to held for sale 47.8 47.8 Net assets disposed of or impaired 19.2 56.6 75.8 4.3 58.9 63.2 Net pre-tax loss on disposal of operations 4.7 3.3 8.0 2.9 36.6 39.5 Tax on disposal of discontinued operations 5.1 5.1 Net post-tax loss on disposal of operations 4.7 3.3 8.0 2.9 41.7 44.6 Assets previously classified as held for sale comprised: Property, plant and equipment 43.6 43.6 Inventories 9.6 9.6 Trade and other receivables 32.8 32.8 Cash and short-term deposits 2.3 2.3 Total assets previously classified as held for sale 88.3 88.3 Liabilities previously classified as held for sale comprised: Trade and other payables 29.8 29.8 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1.9 1.9 Total liabilities previously classified as held for sale 31.7 31.7 Cookson Group plc { 101 } Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 42.
DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES continued Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations 2006 operations operations 2005 m m m m m m Net cash received from disposals: Net proceeds received 14.5 51.7 66.2 2.4 28.0 30.4 Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 2.3 2.3 Proceeds received in relation to prior years disposals 3.8 3.8 Disposal costs paid in relation to prior years disposals 5.2 5.2 Net cash inflow from disposal of subsidiaries and joint ventures 14.5 48.0 62.5 2.4 28.0 30.4 Recognition in the statement of cash flows: Within net outflows related to assets and liabilities classified as held for sale 3.1 3.1 Disposal of subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash disposed of 14.5 44.9 59.4 2.4 28.0 30.4 Net cash inflow from disposal of subsidiaries and joint ventures 14.5 48.0 62.5 2.4 28.0 30.4 43.
COMMITMENTS 2006 2005 m m Capital commitments: Contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 7.5 0.9 Operating lease commitments: The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: Less than one year 12.0 12.8 Later than one year and not later than five years 29.2 30.7 Later than five years 70.0 81.8 Total operating lease commitments 111.2 125.3 44.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Guarantees of borrowings for the Group as at 31 December 2006 amounted to nil 2005: 0.4m and guarantees under property leases of discontinued operations amounted to 2.6m 2005: 4.5m.
Details of guarantees given by the Company, on behalf of the Group, are given in note 18 to the Company financial statements.
The Group has extensive international operations and several companies within the Group are parties to legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims arising in the ordinary course of the operations of the Group company involved.
While the outcome of litigation can never be predicted with certainty, having regard to legal advice received and the Groups insurance arrangements, the Directors believe that none of these matters will, either individually or in the aggregate, have a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial condition or results of operations.
Legal claims have been brought against Group companies by third parties alleging that persons have been harmed by exposure to hazardous materials.
Two of the Groups subsidiaries are subject to lawsuits in the US relating to a small number of products containing asbestos manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by the Group.
To date, there have been no liability verdicts against either of these subsidiaries.
A number of lawsuits have been withdrawn, dismissed or settled, and the amount paid, including costs, in relation to this litigation has not had a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations.
Cookson Group plc { 102 } Annual Report 2006 45.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE On 1 February 2007, the sale of Monofrax Inc. to RHI AG was completed.
The purchase price of US$45m, which is subject to finalisation of the value of pension and other post-retirement obligations and working capital balances, was satisfied on completion by the assumption by RHI AG of estimated pension and other post-retirement obligations of US$10m, with the balance of US$35m satisfied in cash.
SUBSIDIARIES Details of the principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of Cookson Group plc and the countries in which they are incorporated are given in note 7 to the Company financial statements.
RELATED PARTIES Transactions between Group subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
During the year, Group subsidiaries made sales of products and services to Group joint venture companies of 1.2m 2005: 1.3m and made purchases of goods and services from Group joint venture companies of 0.6m 2005: 3.7m.
As at 31 December 2006, amounts owed by the Groups joint ventures to Group subsidiaries was nil 2005: nil and amounts owed to Group joint ventures by Group subsidiaries was nil 2005: nil.
Details of related party information in relation to key management personnel are given in note 11.
Cookson Group plc { 103 } Annual Report 2006
