62 V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 N No ot tiic ce e o of f A An nn nu ua all G Ge en ne er ra all M Me ee et tiin ng g Notice is hereby given that the fourteenth Annual General Meeting of VICTREX plc the Company will be held at 10.00am on 6 February 2007, at The Great Eastern Hyatt Hotel formerly The Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, London, EC2M 7QN, to transact the following business: O Or rd diin na ar ry y B Bu us siin ne es ss s 1 To approve the Report on Directors Remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2006.
2 To receive the Accounts and Reports of the Directors and the Auditors for the year ended 30 September 2006.
3 To approve the payment of a final dividend of 10.2p per share on the Companys ordinary shares of 1p in respect of the year ended 30 September 2006.
4 To re-elect as a Director Mr G F B Kerr who having been appointed as a Director after the last Annual General Meeting of the Company retires and offers himself for re-election.
5 To re-elect Mr M W Peacock, who retires by rotation.
6 To re-elect Ms A M Frew, who retires by rotation.
7 To re-elect Mr D R Hummel, who retires by rotation.
8 To re-elect Mr J G A Azis, who retires by rotation.
9 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
S Sp pe ec ciia all B Bu us siin ne es ss s To consider and, if thought fit, and subject in the case of Resolution 11 to the passing of Resolution 10 pass the following resolutions, which in the case of Resolution 10 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and in the case of Resolutions 11 and 12 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 10 That the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act in substitution for all existing authorities under the said section 80 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of the said section 80 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 282,581, provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, 6 May 2008 and provided further that the Company may before such expiry make any offers or agreements which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry.
11 That the Directors of the Company be and are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 1 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Directors in accordance with section 80 of the Act on 6 February 2007 as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of the holders of ordinary shares notwithstanding that, by reason of such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or desirable to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange, in any territory, the equity securities to be issued are not offered to all such holders in proportion to the number of ordinary shares held by each of them and, b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 40,870: and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 6 May 2008, save that the Company may before such expiry make any offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry.
V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 63 12 That the Directors of the Company be authorised generally and unconditionally to exercise all powers of the Company to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 3 of the Act of its ordinary shares of 1p each provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be acquired is 8,174,188: b the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 1p and, c the maximum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotation for an ordinary share according to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the purchase is contracted to take place: and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 6 May 2008 but a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be executed wholly or partly thereafter and a purchase of shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board M M W W P Pe ea ac co oc ck k Company Secretary 4 December 2006 64 V V V VIIIIC C C CT T T TR R R RE E E EX X X X p p p pllllc c c c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 N No ot tiic ce e o of f A An nn nu ua all G Ge en ne er ra all M Me ee et tiin ng g continued N No ot te es s:: 1 Members entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on their behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
2 The register of Directors interests in the Companys shares, copies of the Directors service contracts and the Directors Deeds of Indemnity will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours excluding Saturdays, Sundays and English public holidays from the date of this notice until the date of the Meeting and at the place of the Meeting from fifteen minutes before the Meeting until its close.
3 In accordance with regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 the Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the Companys Register of Members at 7am on Monday 5th February 2007 will be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting and that the number of votes which any such shareholder may cast, upon a poll, will be determined by reference to the number of shares registered in such shareholders name at that time.
E Ex xp plla an na at to or ry y N No ot te es s O Or rd diin na ar ry y B Bu us siin ne es ss s Resolution 1 A Ap pp pr ro ov va all o of f t th he e R Re ep po or rt t o on n D Diir re ec ct to or rs s R Re em mu un ne er ra at tiio on n This resolution is proposed to approve the Report on Directors Remuneration as set out on pages 18 to 23.
Resolution 2 A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s The Directors are under a duty in relation to each financial year to lay the Accounts and Reports of the Directors and Auditors before the Company in general meeting, giving shareholders the opportunity to ask questions on the contents.
D fide ec clla ar ra at tiio on n o of f d diiv viid fide en nd d Resolution 3 A final dividend of 10.2p per ordinary share payable on 1 March 2007 has been recommended by the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2006.
In accordance with the requirements of the Inland Revenue, all dividends are declared and paid net of income tax at the standard rate.
Resolutions 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 R Re e- -e elle ec ct tiio on n o of f D Diir re ec ct to or rs s In accordance with the Articles of Association Mr G F B Kerr who was appointed as a Director after the last Annual General Meeting of the Company is required to retire as a Director.
He will, however, seek re-election by the shareholders.
In addition Mr M W Peacock, Ms A M Frew, Mr D R Hummel and Mr J G A Azis will retire by rotation as Directors and will seek re-election by the shareholders in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
Biographical details of Directors seeking re-election are set out on page 12.
With regard to the non-executive Directors seeking re-election, the Board considers that Giles Kerr, Anita Frew and Jonathan Azis have added breadth and perspective to the Boards deliberations.
Specifically, Giles Kerr brings a wide range of recent and relevant financial experience to his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Anita Frew, who has been a Director since 2000, and who is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, has made a significant contribution to the Group bringing a wide range of experience, particularly with regard to international marketing, corporate development and the City.
Jonathan Azis, who has been a Director since 2003, has also made a significant contribution to the development of Victrex bringing a wide range of financial, legal and industrial experience from a large company background.
V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 65 Resolution 9 R Re e- -a ap pp po oiin nt tm me en nt t o of f A Au ud diit to or r A Au ud diit to or rs s r re em mu un ne er ra at tiio on n This resolution proposes the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor of the Company and authorises the Directors to determine their remuneration.
S Sp pe ec ciia all B Bu us siin ne es ss s Resolution 10 A Au ut th ho or riit ty y t to o a allllo ot t s sh ha ar re es s The authority of shareholders is required to enable Directors to allot shares.
Accordingly, in line with the Company's usual procedure, which is also standard practice amongst other public companies, this resolution seeks authority for the Directors to issue shares within the limits of the existing authorised share capital until the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting or 6 May 2008, if sooner.
The resolution will provide for the Directors to be able to allot shares up to a nominal amount of 282,581.
This represents less than one third of the issued share capital plus the number of shares that the Company may be obliged to allot under its share option schemes.
With the exception of shares to be issued in respect of share options exercised, the Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority.
P Pe er rm miis ss siio on n t to o a allllo ot t a a lliim miit te ed d n nu um mb be er r o of f s sh ha ar re es s o ot th he er r t th ha an n t to o e ex xiis st tiin ng g s sh ha ar re eh ho olld fide er rs s Resolution 11 When shares are issued for cash, they normally have to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their current shareholding.
This resolution will enable the Directors to allot for cash up to a nominal amount of 40,870, representing approximately 5% of the current issued ordinary share capital, other than to existing shareholders in order to take advantage of these opportunities as and when they arise.
The authority will lapse at the earlier of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 6 May 2008, if sooner.
Resolution 12 A Au ut th ho or riit ty y t to o p pu ur rc ch ha as se e o ow wn n s sh ha ar re es s In certain circumstances, it might be advantageous to the Company to purchase its own shares.
Resolution 12 specifies the maximum number of shares which may be acquired less than 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this Notice and the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Directors intend to use the authority only if, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such purchase will be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company will be taken into account in reaching such a decision.
Any shares purchased in this way will be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly.
As at 1 December 2006, options over a total of 2,105,116 ordinary shares were outstanding and not exercised.
That number of ordinary shares represents 2.58% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 1 December 2006.
It would represent 2.86% of the issued ordinary share capital if the authority to buy the Companys own shares had been used in full at that date.
