Use of Non-GAAP financial information In presenting and discussing the Groups reported financial position, operating results and cash flows, certain information is derived from amounts calculated in accordance with IFRS but this information is not itself an expressly permitted GAAP measure.
Such non-GAAP measures should not be viewed in isolation as alternatives to the equivalent GAAP measure.
A summary of certain non-GAAP measures included in this Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement is shown below.
Non-GAAP measure Equivalent GAAP measure EBITDA Operating profit Adjusted operating profit Operating profit Adjusted earnings per share Earnings per share Free cash flow Net cash flows from operating activities Net debt Cash and cash equivalents Proportionate revenue Revenue Proportionate EBITDA Operating profit Independent Auditors Statement to the Members of Vodafone Group Plc We have examined the Summary Financial Statement which as described in the contents section, and consider the comprises the Summary Boards Report to Shareholders on implications for our report if we become aware of any Directors Remuneration, Summary Consolidated Income apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Statement, Summary Consolidated Statement of Recognised the Summary Financial Statement.
Income and Expense, Summary Consolidated Balance Sheet, Summary Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and notes 1 to Basis of opinion 5 to the Summary Financial Statement.
We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act in the United Kingdom.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to We have not considered the effect of any events between the state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
date on which we signed our report on the Annual Report for To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the year ended 31 March 2006 on 30 May 2006 and the date assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and of this report.
the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion In our opinion, the Summary Financial Statement is Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors consistent with the Annual Report of Vodafone Group Plc The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review for the year ended 31 March 2006 and complies with the & Summary Financial Statement in accordance with applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
The auditors to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary report on the Companys annual accounts was unqualified.
Financial Statement with the full Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2006, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We report whether the auditors opinion on the full annual accounts was unqualified Deloitte & Touche LLP or qualified.
We also read the other information contained Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, London in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2 June 2006 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 25
