Contingent liabilities 2006 2005 m m Performance bonds 189 382 Credit guarantees third party indebtedness 64 67 Other guarantees and contingent liabilities 19 18 A subsidiary of the Company, Vodafone 2, is responding to an enquiry the Vodafone 2 Performance bonds enquiry by the UK Inland Revenue now called Her Majestys Revenue and Customs Performance bonds require the Group to make payments to third parties in the event and hereinafter referred to as HMRC with regard to the UK tax treatment of its that the Group does not perform what is expected of it under the terms of any related Luxembourg holding company, Vodafone Investments Luxembourg SARL VIL, under contracts.
the Controlled Foreign Companies section of the UKs Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 the CFC Regime relating to the tax treatment of profits earned by the holding Group performance bonds include 152 million 2005: 149 million in respect of company for the accounting period ended 31 March 2001.
Vodafone 2s position is that undertakings to roll out 3G networks in Spain and nil 2005: 189 million in respect of it is not liable to corporation tax in the UK under the CFC Regime in respect of VIL.
undertakings to roll out 2G and 3G networks in Germany.
Vodafone 2 asserts, inter alia, that the CFC Regime is contrary to EU law and has made an application to the Special Commissioners of HMRC for closure of the Vodafone 2 Credit guarantees third party indebtedness enquiry.
On 3 May 2005, the Special Commissioners referred certain questions relating Credit guarantees comprise guarantees and indemnities of bank or other facilities to the compatability of the CFC Regime with EU law to the European Court of Justice including those in respect of the Groups associated undertakings and investments.
Vodafone 2s application for closure has been stayed pending delivery of the ECJs judgment.
In its judgement, the ECJ will only determine questions referred to it and does not have jurisdiction to determine the outcome of Other guarantees and contingent liabilities Vodafone 2s application.
Instead, the Special Commissioners will apply the ECJs Other guarantees principally comprise commitments to support disposed entities.
judgement to the particular facts of Vodafone 2s application.
Although it is not possible to address all possible outcomes, it should be noted that even if the CFC Regime is held In addition to the amounts disclosed above, the Group has guaranteed financial by the ECJ to be entirely lawful, Vodafone 2 would continue to resist the imposition of indebtedness and issued performance bonds for 33 million 2005: 36 million in corporation tax liability on other grounds.
On 15 June 2005, HMRC appealed to the High respect of businesses which have been sold and for which counter indemnities have Court challenging the Special Commissioners decision to refer questions to the ECJ.
been received from the purchasers.
This appeal was dismissed and HMRC has since appealed this dismissal to the Court of Appeal.
A decision in the latter appeal is expected to be rendered in the second half of The Group also enters into lease arrangements in the normal course of business, which 2006.
In addition to the Vodafone 2 enquiry, on 31 October 2005, HMRC commenced an are principally in respect of land, buildings and equipment.
Further details on the enquiry into the residence of VIL which is ongoing the VIL enquiry.
VILs position is minimum lease payments due under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements can that it is resident for tax purposes solely in Luxembourg and therefore it is not liable for be found in note 30. corporation tax in the UK.
The Company has taken provisions, which at 31 March 2006 amounted to 2,098 million, for the potential UK corporation tax liability and related Legal proceedings interest expense that may arise in connection with the Vodafone 2 and VIL enquiries, if The Company and its subsidiaries are currently, and may be from time to time, involved the Company is not successful in its challenge of the CFC Regime.
The provisions relate in a number of legal proceedings, including inquiries from or discussions with to the accounting period which is the subject of the proceedings described above as governmental authorities, that are incidental to their operations.
However, save as well as to accounting periods after 31 March 2001 to date.
disclosed below, the Company and its subsidiaries are not involved currently in any legal or arbitration proceedings including any governmental proceedings which are pending The judgement of the ECJ is expected to be delivered at the beginning of 2007 at the or known to be contemplated which may have, or have had in the twelve months earliest.
In the absence of any material unexpected developments, the provisions are preceding the date of this report, a significant effect on the financial position or likely to be reassessed when the views of the ECJ become known.
profitability of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Company is a defendant in four actions in the United States alleging personal injury, including brain cancer, from mobile phone use.
In each case, various other carriers and mobile phone manufacturers are also named as defendants.
These actions are at an early stage and no accurate quantification of any losses which may arise out of the claims can therefore be made as at the date of this report.
The Company is not aware that the health risks alleged in such personal injury claims have been substantiated and will be vigorously defending such claims.
In 2002, a class action lawsuit was brought in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against the Company and certain of its officers and directors under Sections 10 b and 20 a of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder alleging principally that Vodafone had improperly delayed taking and disclosing goodwill impairment losses relating to certain fixed line and noncontrolled mobile assets that Vodafone reported in the financial year ended 31 March 2002.
Vodafone firmly denied any wrongdoing and believes the allegations are wholly without merit.
On 4 March 2005, the parties entered into a definitive settlement agreement for a cash payment by Vodafone and its insurance carriers of $24.5 million, before fees and expenses, which was approved by the Court on 15 July 2005.
The settlement, which covers all current and former defendants, does not involve any admission or evidence of wrongdoing by any of them.
The plaintiffs application for reimbursement of costs and an award of attorneys fees to be paid form the settlement fund remains pending.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 117 Financials
