Impairment The following cash-generating units, being the lowest level of asset for which there are separately identifiable cash flows, have carrying amounts of goodwill that are considered significant in comparison with the Groups total goodwill balance: 2006 2005 m m Germany 16,518 35,765 Italy 16,475 19,812 Spain 10,571 10,399 1 Japan 8,295 43,564 74,271 Multiple units without significant goodwill 9,042 6,728 52,606 80,999 Note: 1 Goodwill of 8,295 million relating to the Groups mobile operations in Japan has been reclassified to assets included in the disposal group held for sale, following the Groups announcement of its intention to dispose of its operations in Japan on 17 March 2006.
In accordance with accounting standards, the Group undertakes an annual test for impairment of its cash generating units.
The most recent test was undertaken at 31 January 2006.
The tests in the years ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 were based on value in use calculations.
Impairment losses The impairment losses recognised in the income statement, as a separate line item within operating profit, in respect of goodwill are as follows: 2006 2005 m m Germany 19,400 Italy 3,600 Other Mobile Operations Sweden 515 475 23,515 475 Germany and Italy The carrying value of goodwill of the Groups mobile operations in Germany and Italy, with each representing a reportable segment, has been impaired due to Vodafone having revised its view of longer term trends for these businesses given certain developments in the current market environment.
The German market has seen recent intensification in price competition, principally from new market entrants, together with high levels of penetration and continued regulated reductions in incoming call rates.
In Italy, competitive pressures are increasing with the mobile network operators competing aggressively on subsidies and, increasingly, on price.
The impairment losses were determined as part of the annual test for impairment and were based on value in use calculations using the pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates disclosed on page 92.
Sweden The impairment of the carrying value of goodwill of the Groups mobile operation in Sweden in the years ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 resulted from fierce competition in the Swedish market combined with onerous 3G licence obligations.
Vodafone Sweden forms part of the Groups Other Mobile Operations, which is a reportable segment.
Prior to its disposal in the year in the year ended 31 March 2006, the carrying value of goodwill was tested for impairment at an interim date as increased competition provided an indicator that the goodwill may have been further impaired.
The recoverable amount of the goodwill was determined as the fair value less costs to sell, reflecting the announcement on 31 October 2005 that the Groups 100% interest in Vodafone Sweden was to be sold for 953 million 653 million.
The sale completed on 5 January 2006.
In the year ended 31 March 2005, the impairment was determined as part of the annual test for impairment and was based on value in use calculations.
A pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate of 9.7% was used in the value in use calculation.
Key assumptions used in the value in use calculations The Group prepares and internally approves formal ten year plans for its businesses.
For the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group used these plans for its value in use calculations.
The plans included cash flow projections for the mobile businesses which were expected to have growth rates in excess of the long-term average growth rates, beyond an initial five year period, for the markets in which they operate.
In the year ended 31 March 2006, the most recent management plans have shown that the need to reflect a differing growth profile beyond an initial five year period has diminished in a number of the Groups key operating companies as the Group has revised its view of longer term trends.
Accordingly, the directors believe it is now appropriate to use projections of five years for its value in use calculations, except in markets which are forecast to grow ahead of the long term growth rate for the market.
At 31 March 2006, the value in use calculation for the Groups joint venture in India used a ten year plan reflecting the low penetration of mobile telecommunications in the country and the expectation of strong revenue growth throughout the ten year plan.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 91 Financials Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
Impairment continued The key assumptions used in determining the value in use are: Assumption How determined Budgeted EBITDA Budgeted EBITDA, calculated as adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortisation, has been based on past experience adjusted for the following: voice and messaging revenue is expected to benefit from increased usage from new customers, the introduction of new services and traffic moving from fixed networks to mobile networks, though these factors will be partially offset by increased competitor activity, which may result in price declines, and the trend of falling termination rates: non-messaging data revenue is expected to continue to grow strongly as the penetration of 3G enabled devices rises and new products and services are introduced: and margins are expected to be impacted by negative factors such as an increase in the cost of acquiring and retaining customers in increasingly competitive markets and the expectation of further termination rates cuts by regulators: and by positive factors such as the efficiencies expected from the implementation of One Vodafone initiatives.
Budgeted capital expenditure The cash flow forecasts for capital expenditure is based on past experience and includes the ongoing capital expenditure required to provide enhanced voice and data products and services and to meet the population coverage requirements of certain of the Groups licences.
Capital expenditure includes cash outflows for the purchase of property, plant and equipment and computer software.
Long term growth rate For mobile businesses, a long term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined as the lower of: the nominal GDP rates for the country of operation: and the long term compound annual growth rate in EBITDA implied by the business plan.
For non-mobile businesses, no growth is expected beyond managements plans for the initial five year period.
Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate The discount rate applied to the cash flows of each the Groups operations is based on the risk free rate for ten year bonds issued by the government in the respective market, adjusted for a risk premium to reflect both the increased risk of investing in equities and the systematic risk of the specific Group operating company.
In making this adjustment, inputs required are the equity market risk premium that is the required increased return required over and above a risk free rate by an investor who is investing in the market as a whole and the risk adjustment beta applied to reflect the risk of the specific Group operating company relative to the market as a whole.
In determining the risk adjusted discount rate, management have applied an adjustment for the systematic risk to each of the Groups operations determined using an average of the betas of comparable listed mobile telecommunications companies and, where available and appropriate, across a specific territory.
Management have used a forward looking equity market risk premium that takes into consideration both studies by independent economists, the average equity market risk premium over the past ten years and the market risk premiums typically used by investment banks in evaluating acquisition proposals.
The following assumptions have been applied in the value in use calculations as follows: Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate Long term growth rate 2006 2005 2006 2005 % % % % Germany 10.1 9.6 1.1 2.7 Italy 10.1 9.2 1.5 4.1 Spain 9.0 9.3 3.3 3.4 Impact of a reasonably possible change in a key assumption For those cash generating units, or the aggregate of cash generating units which are not individually significant, where a reasonably possible change in a key assumption would lead to an impairment loss, the following provides additional information on the sensitivity of such a change on the recoverable amount.
Germany Italy m m Amount by which recoverable amount exceeded the carrying value at 31 January 2006 %% Key assumptions: 1 Budgeted EBITDA 0.3 1.8 2 Budgeted capital expenditure 9.3 to 9.0 13.4 to 8.5 Notes: 1 Compound annual growth rates in the initial five years of the Groups approved financial plans.
2 Range of capital expenditure as a percentage of revenue in the initial five years of the Groups approved plans.
As noted above, there has been an impairment loss recognised in the year ended 31 March 2006 in respect of Germany and Italy, whose carrying values, therefore, equalled their respective recoverable amounts at 31 January 2006, the date of the Groups annual impairment test.
As a result, any adverse change in key assumption would cause a further impairment loss to be recognised.
92 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006
