For ADS holders, The Bank of New York maintains a Global BuyDIRECT Plan for the Contents Company, which is a direct purchase and sale plan for depositary receipts, with a Page dividend reinvestment facility.
For additional information, please call toll-free from within Investor Information 140 the US on 1 800 233 5601, or write to: Financial calendar for the 2007 financial year 140 Dividends 140 The Bank of New York Telephone share dealing 140 Shareholder Relations Department Postal share dealing 140 Global BuyDIRECT Registrars and transfer office 140 P. O.
Box 1958 Online shareholder services 141 Newark Annual General Meeting 141 New Jersey 07101-1958 Corporate sponsored nominee service for shareholders 141 USA ShareGift 141 For calls from outside the US, call 1 212 815 3700.
The Unclaimed Assets Register 141 Please note that this number is not toll-free.
Share price history 141 Markets 142 Memorandum and Articles of Association and Applicable English Law 142 Telephone share dealing Documents on display 144 A telephone share dealing service with the Companys Registrars is available for holders Material contracts 144 of ordinary shares.
The service is available from 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday, Exchange controls 144 excluding bank holidays, on telephone number 44 0 870 703 0084.
Taxation 144 Detailed terms and conditions are available on request by calling the above number.
Form 20-F cross reference guide 146 Postal share dealing Investor information A postal share dealing service is available for holders of ordinary shares with 1,000 Financial calendar for the 2007 financial year shares or fewer who want to either increase their holding or sell their entire holding.
Annual General Meeting see below 25 July 2006 Further information about this service can be obtained from the Companys Registrars on 44 0 870 702 0198.
Interim Results announcement 14 November 2006 Preliminary announcement of full year results 23 May 2007 Registrars and transfer office The Companys ordinary share register is maintained by: Dividends Computershare Investor Services PLC Full details on the dividend amount per share or ADS can be found on page 38.
Box 82 below is information relevant to the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006.
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Ex-dividend date 7 June 2006 England Record date 9 June 2006 Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0198 Fax: 44 0 870 703 6101 Dividend reinvestment plan election date 14 July 2006 Email: web.
co. uk 1 Dividend payment date 4 August 2006 Holders of ordinary shares resident in Ireland should contact: Note: 1 Payment date for both ordinary shares and ADSs.
Computershare Investor Services Ireland Limited P. O.
Box 9742 Dividend payment methods Dublin 18 Holders of ordinary shares can: Ireland have cash dividends paid direct to a bank or building society account: or Telephone: 353 0 818 300 999 or Fax: 353 0 1 216 3151 Email: web.
ie have cash dividends paid in the form of a cheque: or elect to use the cash dividends to purchase more Vodafone shares under the Any queries about the administration of holdings of ordinary shares, such as change of Dividend Reinvestment Plan see below.
address, change of ownership or dividend payments, should be directed to the Companys Registrars at the relevant address or telephone number immediately above.
If a holder of ordinary shares does decide to receive cash dividends, it is recommended Holders of ordinary shares may also check details of their shareholding, subject to that these are paid directly to the shareholders bank or building society account via passing an identity check, on the Registrars website at www.
This avoids the risk of cheques being lost in the post and means the dividend will be in the shareholders account on the dividend payment date.
The The Depositary Bank for the Companys ADR programme is: shareholder will be sent a tax voucher confirming the amount of dividend and the account into which it has been paid.
The Bank of New York Investor Relations Dept, P. O.
Box 11258 Please contact the Companys Registrars for further details.
Church St. Station New York, NY 10286-1258 Holders of ADSs can: USA have cash dividends paid direct to a bank account: or Telephone: 1 800 233 5601 Toll free have cash dividends paid by cheque: or ADS holders should address any queries or instructions regarding their holdings to The elect to have the dividends reinvested to purchase additional Vodafone ADSs see Bank of New York at the above address or telephone number.
ADS holders can also, below for contact details.
subject to passing an identity check, view their account balances and transaction history, sell shares and request certificates from their Global BuyDIRECT Plan at Dividend reinvestment www.
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which allows holders of ordinary shares who choose to participate to use their cash dividends to acquire additional shares in the Company.
These are purchased on their behalf by the Plan Administrator through a low cost dealing arrangement.
Further details can be obtained from the Plan Administrator on 44 0 870 702 0198.
140 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 Online shareholder services The Unclaimed Assets Register The Company provides a number of shareholder services online at The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register, which provides a search www.
com shareholder, where shareholders may: facility for financial assets which may have been forgotten and which donates a proportion of its public search fees to a group of three UK charities Age Concern, NSPCC Register to receive electronic shareholder communications.
Benefits to shareholders and Scope.
For further information, contact The Unclaimed Assets Register, Garden include faster receipt of communications such as annual reports, with cost and time Floor, Bain House, 16 Connaught Place, London W2 2ES telephone: 44 0 870 241 savings for the Company.
Electronic shareholder communications are also more 1713, or visit its website at www.
environmentally friendly: View a live webcast of the AGM of the Company on 25 July 2006.
A recording will be available to review after that date: Share price history View and or download the Annual Report and the Annual Review & Summary Upon flotation of the Company on 11 October 1988, the ordinary shares were valued at Financial Statement 2006: 170 pence each.
On 16 September 1991, when the Company was finally demerged, for UK taxpayers the base cost of Racal Electronics Plc shares was apportioned between the Check the current share price: Company and Racal Electronics Plc for Capital Gains Tax purposes in the ratio of Calculate dividend payments: and 80.036% and 19.964% respectively.
Opening share prices on 16 September 1991 were 332 pence for each Vodafone share and 223 pence for each Racal share.
Use interactive tools to calculate the value of shareholdings, look up the historic price on a particular date and chart Vodafone ordinary share price changes against indices.
On 21 July 1994, the Company effected a bonus issue of two new shares for every one Shareholders and other interested parties can also receive Company press releases, then held and, on 30 September 1999, it effected a bonus issue of four new shares for including London Stock Exchange announcements, by registering for Vodafone News via every one held at that date.
The flotation and demerger share prices, therefore, may be the Companys website at www.
restated as 11.333 pence and 22.133 pence, respectively.
Registering for Vodafone News will enable users to: The share price at 31 March 2006 was 120.50 pence 31 March 2005: 140.50 pence.
The share price on 26 May 2006 was 119.75 pence.
be alerted by free SMS as soon as news breaks: access the latest news from their mobile: and The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, i the reported high and low middle market quotations of ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange, ii the have news automatically e-mailed to them.
reported high and low sales prices of ordinary shares on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, and iii the reported high and low sales prices of ADSs on the NYSE.
Annual General Meeting The twenty-second AGM of the Company will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II The Companys ordinary shares were traded on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange from 3 Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1 on 25 July 2006 at April 2000 until 23 March 2004 and, therefore, information has not been provided for 11.00 a. m. or, if later, on conclusion of the Extraordinary General Meeting to be held periods outside these dates.
immediately before it at 10.45 a. m. Five year data on an annual basis The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the business to be conducted at the Meeting, is being circulated to shareholders with this Annual Report or the Annual London Stock Frankfurt Review & Summary Financial Statement and can be viewed at the Companys Exchange Stock Exchange NYSE website www.
Pounds per Euros per Dollars ordinary share ordinary share per ADS The AGM will be transmitted via a live webcast and can be viewed at the Companys Financial Year High Low High Low High Low website www.
com agm on the day of the meeting and a recording will be 2001 2002 2.29 1.24 3.70 2.00 33.26 17.88 available to review after that date.
2004 2005 1.49 1.14 28.54 20.83 Corporate sponsored nominee service for shareholders 2005 2006 1.55 1.09 28.04 19.32 Subject to changes to the Companys Articles of Association being approved at the Annual General Meeting on 25 July 2006, the Company intends to establish a Corporate Nominee Service for Shareholders, which would be operated by the Companys Registrar.
Two year data on a quarterly basis The service provides a facility for shareholders to remove their shares from the Vodafone London Stock Exchange NYSE Group Plc share register and hold them, together with other shareholders through a Pounds per Dollars nominee.
There would be no need for a share certificate and, in addition, shareholders ordinary share per ADS details will not be held on the main register and so will remain confidential.
Financial Year High Low High Low Details will be available frollowing the AGM on the Companys website at 2004 2005 www.
First Quarter 1.44 1.21 25.90 21.87 Second Quarter 1.34 1.14 24.21 20.83 ShareGift The Company supports ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme registered charity Third Quarter 1.49 1.32 28.54 24.06 number 1052686.
Through ShareGift, shareholders who have only a very small number Fourth Quarter 1.46 1.35 27.53 25.60 of shares which might be considered uneconomic to sell are able to donate them to charity.
Donated shares are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed 2005 2006 on to a wide range of UK charities.
Donating shares to charity gives rise neither to a gain First Quarter 1.47 1.34 26.87 24.32 nor a loss for UK Capital Gains purposes and UK taxpayers may also be able to claim income tax relief on the value of the donation.
Second Quarter 1.55 1.36 28.04 23.90 Third Quarter 1.52 1.23 26.65 21.29 ShareGift transfer forms specifically for the Companys shareholders are available from the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC and, even if the share Fourth Quarter 1.33 1.09 23.39 19.32 certificate has been lost or destroyed, the gift can be completed.
The service is generally 2006 2007 free.
However, there may be an indemnity charge for a lost or destroyed share certificate where the value of the shares exceeds 100.
Further details about ShareGift can be 1 First Quarter 1.30 1.14 24.23 21.07 obtained from its website at www.
org or at 5 Lower Grosvenor Place, London Note: SW1W 0EJ telephone: 44 0 20 7828 1151.
1 Covering period up to 26 May 2006.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 141 Shareholder information Investor information continued The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company held by these shareholders Six month data on a monthly basis are identical in all respects to the rights attaching to all the ordinary shares of the London Stock Company.
The directors are not aware, as at 26 May 2006, of any other interest of 3% or Exchange NYSE more in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
The Company is not directly or Pounds per Dollars indirectly owned or controlled by any foreign government or any other legal entity.
ordinary share per ADS Financial Year High Low High Low There are no arrangements known to the Company that could result in a change of control of the Company.
November 2005 1.52 1.25 26.65 21.55 December 2005 1.29 1.23 22.66 21.29 Memorandum and Articles of Association and Applicable January 2006 1.33 1.18 23.39 20.86 English law February 2006 1.25 1.09 21.81 19.32 The following description summarises certain provisions of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
This summary is March 2006 1.30 1.12 22.74 19.55 qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 1985 of Great Britain the Companies Act, as amended, and the Companys Memorandum and Articles of April 2006 1.30 1.21 23.70 21.07 Association.
Information on where shareholders can obtain copies of the Memorandum 1 May 2006 1.30 1.14 24.23 21.53 and Articles of Association is provided under Documents on Display.
Note: 1 High and low share prices for May 2006 only reported until 26 May 2006.
All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, no further contribution The current authorised share capital comprises 78,000,000,000 ordinary shares of $0.10 of capital may be required by the Company from the holders of such shares.
each and 50,000 7% cumulative fixed rate shares of 1.00 each.
English law specifies that any alteration to the Articles of Association must be approved by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Markets Ordinary shares of Vodafone Group Plc are traded on the London Stock Exchange and, in the form of ADSs, on the New York Stock Exchange.
The Companys Objects The Company is a public limited company under the laws of England and Wales.
The ADSs, each representing ten ordinary shares, are traded on the New York Stock Exchange Company is registered in England and Wales under the name Vodafone Group Public under the symbol VOD.
The ADSs are evidenced by ADRs issued by The Bank of New York, Limited Company, with the registration number 1833679.
The Companys objects are set as Depositary, under a Deposit Agreement, dated as of 12 October 1988, as amended and out in the fourth clause of its Memorandum of Association and cover a wide range of restated as of 26 December 1989, as further amended and restated as of 16 September activities, including to carry on the business of a holding company, to carry on business 1991 and as further amended and restated as of 30 June 1999, between the Company, the as dealers in, operators, manufacturers, repairers, designers, developers, importers and Depositary and the holders from time to time of ADRs issued thereunder.
exporters of electronic, electrical, mechanical and aeronautical equipment of all types as well as to carry on all other businesses necessary to attain the Companys objectives.
ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct The Bank of New York The Memorandum of Association grants the Company a broad range of powers to effect on the exercise of voting rights relative to the number of ordinary shares represented by its objects.
See Memorandum and Articles of Association and Applicable English Law Rights attaching to the Companys shares Voting rights below.
Directors The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of directors, consisting of not Shareholders at 31 March 2006 fewer than three directors, who shall manage the business and affairs of the Company.
Number of % of total Under the Companys Articles of Association, a director cannot vote in respect of any ordinary shares Number of issued proposal in which the director, or any person connected with the director, has a material held accounts shares interest other than by virtue of the directors interest in the Companys shares or other 1 1,000 439,814 0.19 securities.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply to resolutions a giving the 1,001 5,000 102,534 0.33 director or a third party any guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of obligations or liabilities incurred at the request of or for the benefit of the Company, b giving any 5,001 50,000 28,540 0.57 guarantee, security or indemnity to the director or a third party in respect of obligations 50,001 100,000 1,451 0.15 of the Company for which the director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee, c relating to an offer of securities of the Company in which the director 100,001 500,000 1,292 0.45 participates as a holder of shares or other securities or in the underwriting of such shares More than 500,000 1,937 98.31 or securities, d concerning any other company in which the director together with any connected person is a shareholder or an officer or is otherwise interested, provided that 575,568 100.00 the director together with any connected person is not interested in 1% or more of any class of the companys equity share capital or the voting rights available to its shareholders, e relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit in which the Geographical analysis of shareholders director will share equally with other employees and f relating to any insurance that At 31 March 2006, approximately 52.68% of the Companys shares were held in the UK, the Company purchases or renews for its directors or any group of people, including 32.04% in North America, 12.86% in Europe excluding the UK and 2.42% in the Rest of directors.
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow Major shareholders money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all liabilities and The Bank of New York, as custodian of the Companys ADR programme, held obligations of the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to approximately 12.8% of the Companys ordinary shares of $0.10 each at 26 May 2006 as 1.5 times the aggregate of the Groups share capital and reserves calculated in the nominee.
The total number of ADRs outstanding at 26 May 2006 was 773,146,523.
At manner prescribed in the Articles of Association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary this date, 1,147 holders of record of ordinary shares had registered addresses in the resolution of the Companys shareholders.
United States and in total held approximately 0.006% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
As at 26 May 2006, the following percentage interests in the ordinary share In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors retiring at each AGM capital of the Company, disclosable under Part VI of the Companies Act 1985, have been are those last elected or re-elected at or before the AGM held in the third calendar year notified to the directors: before the current year.
In 2005, the Company reviewed its policy regarding the retirement and re-election of directors and, although it is not intended to amend the Shareholder Shareholding Companys Articles in this regard, the Board has decided, in the interests of good The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 5.56% corporate governance, that all the directors should offer themselves for re-election annually.
Accordingly, all the directors will submit themselves for re-election at the 2006 Barclays PLC 3.92% AGM, except for Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, Sir Julian Horn-Smith, Paul Hazen and Legal & General Investment Management 3.67% Penny Hughes, who are retiring.
142 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 No person is disqualified from being a director or is required to vacate that office by together with certain dividend payments, in priority to holders of the Companys reason of age.
If, at a general meeting, a director who is 70 or more years of age is ordinary shares.
The holders of the fixed rate shares do not have any other right to share proposed for election or re-election, that directors age must be set out in the notice of in the Companys surplus assets.
Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares Directors are not required, under the Companys Articles, to hold any shares of the Under Section 80 of the Companies Act, directors are, with certain exceptions, unable to Company as a qualification to act as a director, although executive directors participating allot relevant securities without the authority of the shareholders in a general meeting.
in long term incentive plans must comply with the Companys share ownership Relevant securities as defined in the Companies Act include the Companys ordinary guidelines.
In accordance with best practice in the UK for corporate governance, shares or securities convertible into the Companys ordinary shares.
In addition, Section compensation awarded to executive directors is decided by a remuneration committee 89 of the Companies Act imposes further restrictions on the issue of equity securities as consisting exclusively of non-executive directors.
defined in the Companies Act, which include the Companys ordinary shares and securities convertible into ordinary shares which are, or are to be, paid up wholly in cash In addition, as required by The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, the Board and not first offered to existing shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association has, since 2003, prepared a report to shareholders on the directors remuneration which allow shareholders to authorise directors for a period up to five years to allot a relevant complies with the Regulations see pages 61 to 69.
The report is also subject to a securities generally up to an amount fixed by the shareholders and b equity securities shareholder vote.
for cash other than in connection with a rights issue up to an amount specified by the shareholders and free of the restriction in Section 89.
In accordance with institutional investor guidelines, the amount of relevant securities to be fixed by shareholders is Rights attaching to the Companys shares normally restricted to one third of the existing issued ordinary share capital, and the Dividend rights amount of equity securities to be issued for cash other than in connection with a rights Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may by ordinary resolution declare dividends issue is restricted to 5% of the existing issued ordinary share capital.
but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
The Board of directors may also pay interim dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution.
Dividends on ordinary shares will be Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares announced in pounds sterling.
Holders of ordinary shares with a registered address in a There are no provisions in the Articles of Association whereby persons acquiring, holding euro-zone country defined, for this purpose, as a country that has adopted the euro as or disposing of a certain percentage of the Companys shares are required to make its national currency will receive their dividends in euro, exchanged from pounds disclosure of their ownership percentage, although such requirements exist under the sterling at a rate fixed by the Board of directors in accordance with the Articles of Companies Act.
Dividends for ADS holders represented by ordinary shares held by the Depositary will be paid to the Depositary in US dollars, exchanged from pounds sterling The basic disclosure requirement under Sections 198 to 211 of the Companies Act at a rate fixed by the directors in accordance with the Articles of Association, and the imposes upon a person interested in the shares of the Company a statutory obligation Depositary will distribute them to the ADS holders.
to provide written notification to the Company, including certain details as set out in the Companies Act, where: If a dividend has not been claimed for one year after the later of the resolution passed at a he acquires or becomes aware that he has acquired or ceases to have or becomes a general meeting declaring that dividend or the resolution of the directors providing for aware that he has ceased to have an interest in shares comprising any class of the payment of that dividend, the directors may invest the dividend or use it in some other Companys issued and voting share capital: and way for the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed.
If the dividend remains unclaimed for 12 years after the relevant resolution either declaring that dividend or b as a result, EITHER he obtains, or ceases to have: providing for payment of that dividend, it will be forfeited and belong to the Company.
i a material interest in 3%, or more: or Voting rights ii an aggregate interest whether material or not in 10%, or more of the The Companys Articles of Association provide that voting on Substantive Resolutions Companys voting capital: or i. e. any resolution which is not a Procedural Resolution at a general meeting shall be iii the percentage of his interest in the Companys voting capital remains above the decided on a poll.
On a poll, each shareholder who is entitled to vote and is present in relevant level and changes by a whole percentage point.
person or by proxy has one vote for every share held.
Procedural Resolutions such as a resolution to adjourn a General Meeting or a resolution on the choice of Chairman of a A material interest means, broadly, any beneficial interest including those of a spouse General Meeting shall be decided on a show of hands, where each shareholder who is or a child or a step-child under the age of 18, those of a company which is accustomed present at the meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held, unless a to act in accordance with the relevant persons instructions or in which one third or more poll is demanded.
In addition, the Articles of Association allow persons appointed as of the votes are controlled by such person and certain other interests set out in the proxies of shareholders entitled to vote at general meetings to vote on a show of hands, Companies Act other than those of an investment manager or an operator of a unit as well as to vote on a poll and attend and speak at general meetings.
Holders of the trust recognised scheme collective investment scheme open-ended investment Companys ordinary shares do not have cumulative voting rights.
Under English law, two shareholders present in person constitute a quorum for purposes Sections 204 to 206 of the Companies Act set out particular rules of disclosure where of a general meeting, unless a companys articles of association specify otherwise.
The two or more parties each a concert party have entered into an agreement to acquire Companys Articles of Association do not specify otherwise, except that the shareholders interests in shares of a public company, and the agreement imposes do not need to be present in person, and may instead be present by proxy, to constitute obligations restrictions on any concert party with respect to the use, retention or a quorum.
disposal of the shares in the company and an acquisition of shares by a concert party pursuant to the agreement has taken place.
Under English law, shareholders of a public company such as the Company are not permitted to pass resolutions by written consent.
Under Section 212 of the Companies Act, the Company may by notice in writing require a person that the Company knows or has reasonable cause to believe is or was during Record holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to attend, speak and vote on a poll or the preceding three years interested in the Companys shares to indicate whether or not a show of hands at any general meeting of the Companys shareholders by the that is correct and, if that person does or did hold an interest in the Companys shares, to Depositarys appointment of them as corporate representatives with respect to the provide certain information as set out in the Companies Act.
underlying ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Alternatively, holders of ADSs are entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the Depositary or its nominee, Sections 324 to 329 of the Companies Act further deal with the disclosure by persons who will vote the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs in accordance with their and certain members of their families of interests in shares or debentures of the instructions.
companies of which they are directors and certain associated companies.
Employees are able to vote any shares held under the Vodafone Group Share Incentive There are additional disclosure obligations under Rule 3 of the Substantial Acquisitions Plan and My ShareBank a vested share account through the respective plans Rules where a person acquires 15% or more of the voting rights of a listed company or trustees, Mourant ECS Trustees Limited.
when an acquisition increases his holding of shares or rights over shares so as to increase his voting rights beyond that level by a whole percentage point.
Notification in Liquidation rights this case should be to the Company, the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers and the UK In the event of the liquidation of the Company, after payment of all liabilities and Listing Authority through one of its approved regulatory information services no later deductions in accordance with English law, the holders of the Companys 7% cumulative than 12 noon on the business day following the date of the acquisition.
fixed rate shares would be entitled to a sum equal to the capital paid up on such shares, Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 143 Shareholder information Investor information continued The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also contains strict disclosure requirements on Exchange controls all parties to a takeover with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations that restrict or affect the company and also on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
export or import of capital, including but not limited to, foreign exchange controls on remittance of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the Groups operations, except as otherwise set out under Taxation below.
General meetings and notices Annual general meetings are held at such times and place as determined by the directors of the Company.
The directors may also, when they think fit, convene an Taxation extraordinary general meeting of the Company.
Extraordinary general meetings may As this is a complex area, investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US also be convened on requisition as provided by the Companies Act.
federal, state and local, the UK and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances.
An annual general meeting and an extraordinary general meeting called for the passing of a special resolution need to be called by not less than twenty-one days notice in This section describes for a US holder as defined below, in general terms, the principal writing and all other extraordinary general meetings by not less than fourteen days US federal income tax and UK tax consequences of owning shares or ADSs in the notice in writing.
The directors may determine that persons entitled to receive notices of Company as capital assets for US and UK tax purposes.
This section does not, however, meetings are those persons entered on the register at the close of business on a day cover the tax consequences for members of certain classes of holders subject to special determined by the directors but not later than twenty-one days before the date the rules and holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10 per cent or more of the Companys relevant notice is sent.
The notice may also specify the record date, which shall not be voting stock.
more than forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal income tax Shareholders must provide the Company with an address or so far as the Companies Act purposes: allows an electronic address or fax number in the United Kingdom in order to be entitled to receive notices of shareholders meetings and other notices and documents.
In certain i a citizen or resident of the United States: circumstances, the Company may give notices to shareholders by advertisement in ii a US domestic corporation: newspapers in the United Kingdom.
Holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to receive notices under the terms of the Deposit Agreement relating to the ADSs.
iii an estate the income of which is subject to US federal income tax regardless of its source: or Under Section 366 of the Companies Act 1985 and the Companys Articles of iv a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration Association, the annual general meeting of shareholders must be held each calendar and one or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of year with no more than fifteen months elapsing since the date of the preceding annual the trust.
This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations thereunder, published rulings and court Variation of rights decisions, and on the tax laws of the United Kingdom and the Double Taxation If, at any time, the Companys share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the Convention between the United States and the United Kingdom the Treaty, all as rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions of the Companies currently in effect.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
Act, either with the consent in writing of the holders of three fourths in nominal value of the shares of that class or upon the adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed at a This section is further based in part upon the representations of the Depositary and separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that a the quorum is to be Based on this assumption, for purposes of the Treaty and the US-UK double taxation the number of persons which must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Convention, and for US less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such quorum federal income tax and UK tax purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds shares of the class treated as the owner of the shares in the Company represented by those ADSs.
regardless of the number of shares he holds, b any person present in person or by Generally, exchanges of shares for ADRs, and ADRs for shares, will not be subject to US proxy may demand a poll, and c each shareholder will have one vote per share held in federal income tax or to UK tax, other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax see that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
the section on these taxes below.
Class rights are deemed not to have been varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally with or subsequent to that class of shares in sharing in profits or assets Taxation of dividends of the Company or by a redemption or repurchase of the shares by the Company.
UK taxation Under current UK tax law, no withholding tax will be deducted from dividends paid by the Company.
Limitations on voting and shareholding There are no limitations imposed by English law or the Companys Articles of Association A shareholder that is a company resident for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom will on the right of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote the Companys shares not be taxable on a dividend it receives from the Company.
A shareholder in the other than those limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholders.
Company who is an individual resident for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom is entitled, in calculating their liability to UK income tax, to a tax credit on cash dividends paid on shares in the Company or ADSs, and the tax credit is equal to one-ninth of the Documents on display cash dividend.
The Company is subject to the information requirements of the US Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private issuers.
In accordance with these US federal income taxation requirements, the Company files its Annual Report on Form 20-F and other related A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross amount of any documents with the SEC.
These documents may be inspected at the SECs public dividend paid by the Company out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as reference rooms located at 450 Fifth Street, NW Washington, DC 20549.
Information on determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US the operation of the public reference room can be obtained in the US by calling the SEC holder in tax years beginning before 1 January 2009 that constitute qualified dividend on 1-800-SEC-0330.
In addition, some of the Companys SEC filings, including all those income will be taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the filed on or after 4 November 2002, are available on the SECs website at www.
ordinary shares or ADSs are held for more than 60 days during the 121 day period Shareholders can also obtain copies of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and the holder meets other holding Association from the Vodafone website at www.
com or from the Companys period requirements.
Dividends paid by the Company with respect to the shares or ADSs registered office.
will generally be qualified dividend income.
A US holder is not subject to a UK withholding tax.
The US holder includes in gross Material contracts income for US federal income tax purposes only the amount of the dividend actually At the date of this Annual Report, the Group is not party to any contracts that are received from the Company, and the receipt of a dividend does not entitle the US holder considered material to the Groups results or operations, except for its $10.9 billion credit to a foreign tax credit.
facilities which are discussed under Financial Position and Resources Liquidity and Cash Resources.
144 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 Dividends must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of shares, or the Additional tax considerations Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the dividend and will UK inheritance tax not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US An individual who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes of the Estate Tax corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
Dividends will Convention and is not a UK national will not be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect be income from sources outside the United States.
Dividends paid in taxable years of the Companys shares or ADSs on the individuals death or on a transfer of the shares beginning before 1 January 2007 generally will be passive or financial services or ADSs during the individuals lifetime, provided that any applicable US federal gift or income, and dividends paid in taxable years beginning after 31 December 2006 estate tax is paid, unless the shares or ADSs are part of the business property of a UK generally will be passive or general income, which in either case is treated separately permanent establishment or pertain to a UK fixed base used for the performance of from other types of income for the purposes of computing any allowable foreign tax independent personal services.
Where the shares or ADSs have been placed in trust by a credit.
settlor, they may be subject to UK inheritance tax unless, when the trust was created, the settlor was domiciled in the United States and was not a UK national.
Where the In the case of shares, the amount of the dividend distribution to be included in income shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax, will be the US dollar value of the pound sterling payments made, determined at the spot the Estate Tax Convention generally provides a credit against US federal tax liabilities for pound sterling US dollar rate on the date of the dividend distribution, regardless of UK inheritance tax paid.
whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax dividend payment is to be included in income to the date the payment is converted into Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable on any instrument transferring US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss.
Generally, the gain or loss will be shares in the Company to the Custodian of the Depositary at the rate of 1.5% on the income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation amount or value of the consideration if on sale or on the value of such shares if not on purposes.
Stamp duty reserve tax SDRT, at the rate of 1.5% of the price or value of the shares, could also be payable in these circumstances, and on issue to such a person, but no SDRT will be payable if stamp duty equal to such SDRT liability is paid.
In accordance Taxation of capital gains with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, any tax or duty payable on deposits of shares UK taxation by the Depositary or the Custodian of the Depositary will be charged to the party to A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on the disposal of whom ADSs are delivered against such deposits.
the Companys shares or ADSs if the US holder is: i a citizen of the United States resident or ordinarily resident for UK tax purposes in No stamp duty will be payable on any transfer of ADSs of the Company, provided that the United Kingdom: the ADSs and any separate instrument of transfer are executed and retained at all times outside the United Kingdom.
ii a citizen of the United States who has been resident or ordinarily resident for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom, ceased to be so resident or ordinarily resident for a A transfer of shares in the Company in registered form will attract ad valorem stamp duty period of less than 5 years of assessment and who disposed of the shares or ADSs generally at the rate of 0.5% of the purchase price of the shares.
There is no charge to ad during that period a Temporary Non-Resident, unless the shares or ADSs were valorem stamp duty on gifts.
On a transfer from nominee to beneficial owner the also acquired during that period, such liability arising on that individuals return to nominee having at all times held the shares on behalf of the transferee under which no the UK: beneficial interest passes and which is neither a sale nor in contemplation of a sale, a iii a US domestic corporation resident in the United Kingdom by reason of being fixed 5.00 stamp duty will be payable.
centrally managed and controlled in the United Kingdom: or SDRT is generally payable on an unconditional agreement to transfer shares in the iv a citizen of the United States or a corporation that carries on a trade, profession or Company in registered form at 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration for the vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency or, in respect of transfer, but is repayable if, within six years of the date of the agreement, an instrument companies, through a permanent establishment and that has used the shares or transferring the shares is executed or, if the SDRT has not been paid, the liability to pay ADSs for the purposes of such trade, profession or vocation or has used, held or the tax but not necessarily interest and penalties would be cancelled.
However, an acquired the shares or ADSs for the purposes of such branch or agency or agreement to transfer the ADSs of the Company will not give rise to SDRT.
Under the Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of the shares or ADSs are generally subject to tax only in the country of residence of the relevant holder as determined under both the laws of the United Kingdom and the United States and as required by the terms of the Treaty.
However, individuals who are residents of either the United Kingdom or the United States and who have been residents of the other jurisdiction the US or the UK, as the case may be at any time during the six years immediately preceding the relevant disposal of shares or ADSs may be subject to tax with respect to capital gains arising from the dispositions of the shares or ADSs not only in the country of which the holder is a resident at the time of the disposition but also in that other country although, in respect of UK taxation, generally only to the extent that such an individual comprises a Temporary Non-Resident.
US federal income taxation A US holder that sells or otherwise disposes of the Companys shares or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the shares or ADSs.
Generally, a capital gain of a noncorporate US holder that is recognised before 1 January 2009 is taxed at a maximum rate of 15%, provided the holder has a holding period of more than one year.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of losses is subject to limitations.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 145 Shareholder information
