Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, 1.
Basis of preparation being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with International net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the IASB and its committees, and as interpreted by any regulatory bodies applicable to minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent the Group as adopted for use in the European Union EU, the Companies Act 1985 liabilities recognised.
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, which differs in certain material respects from US Previously held identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP see note 38. entity are revalued to their fair value at the date of acquisition, being the date at which the Group achieves control of the acquiree.
The movement in fair value is taken to the The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to asset revaluation surplus.
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting Interests in joint ventures period.
For a discussion on the Groups critical accounting estimates see Performance A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties Critical Accounting Estimates elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Actual results could undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control, that is when the strategic differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities require the unanimous an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in consent of the parties sharing control.
which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using proportionate Certain amounts in relation to the previous financial year have been reclassified to consolidation.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and cash conform presentation with the requirements of IFRS.
flows of jointly controlled entities are combined with the equivalent items in the results on a line-by-line basis.
Amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements are stated in pounds sterling, the currency of the country in which the Company is incorporated.
The translation into US Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Groups interest in a jointly controlled dollars of the Consolidated Financial Statements as of, and for the financial year ended, entity is accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for goodwill 31 March 2006, is for convenience only and has been made at the Noon Buying Rate for arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary.
cable transfers as announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for customs purposes on 31 March 2006.
This translation should not be Investments in associates construed as a representation that the sterling amounts actually represented have been, An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is or could be, converted into dollars at this or any other rate.
neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Significant accounting policies The Groups significant accounting policies are described below.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the Consolidated Financial Statements using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, Accounting convention investments in associates are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on a historical cost basis except for adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the certain financial and equity instruments that have been measured at fair value.
associate, less any impairment in the value of the investment.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate are not recognised.
Additional losses are provided for, and a liability is recognised, only to the extent that the Group has incurred Basis of consolidation legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled, both unilaterally and jointly, by the Company.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate recognised at the Accounting for subsidiaries date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the amount of the investment.
Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The licences of the Groups associated undertaking in the US, Verizon Wireless, are indefinite lived assets as they are subject to perfunctory renewal.
Accordingly they are The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment, or when indicators income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of exist that the carrying value is not recoverable.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by Intangible assets other members of the Group.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an entity represents the excess of the cost of All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, consolidation.
liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is held in the currency of the from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those acquired entity and revalued to the closing rate at each balance sheet date.
interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the minority Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment.
in excess of the minoritys share of changes in equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement.
to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of Business combinations goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss recognised in the income The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of statement on disposal.
the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Goodwill arising before the date of transition to IFRS, on 1 April 2004, has been retained Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
The acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated their fair values at the acquisition date.
and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 75 Financials Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the 2.
Significant accounting policies continued same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
Licence and spectrum fees Licence and spectrum fees are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
The The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and amortisation periods range from 3 to 25 years and are determined primarily by reference equipment is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying to the unexpired licence period, the conditions for licence renewal and whether licences amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
are dependent on specific technologies.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives from the commencement of service of the network.
Impairment of assets Indefinite lived assets Computer software Goodwill and other assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to Computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire amortisation but are tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an indication and bring into use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated that the asset may be impaired.
useful lives, being 3 to 5 years.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software there are separately identifiable cash flows, known as cash-generating units.
If the products controlled by the Group, and that are expected to generate economic benefits recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill include software development employee costs and directly attributable overheads.
allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is Software integral to a related item of hardware equipment is accounted for as property, not reversed in a subsequent period.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present expense as incurred.
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash Research and development expenditure flows have not been adjusted.
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development activity is plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets to determine whether there is any recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent an asset is created that can be separately identified: of the impairment loss if any.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashit is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and generating unit to which the asset belongs.
the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less Internally-generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is estimated useful lives.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the recognised, development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period income statement.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or Other intangible assets cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, not Other intangible assets with finite lives are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation to exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straightloss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date they are an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Disposal groups held for sale Brands 1 - 10 years Disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying value and fair value less Customer bases 3 - 8 years costs to sell.
Property, plant and equipment Revenue Land and buildings held for use are stated in the balance sheet at their cost, less any Group revenue comprises revenue of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings plus the subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
Groups share of the revenue of its joint ventures and excludes sales taxes and discounts.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment Revenue from mobile telecommunications comprises amounts charged to customers in loss.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their respect of monthly access charges, airtime usage, messaging, the provision of other intended use.
mobile telecommunications services, including data services and information provision, fees for connecting users of other fixed line and mobile networks to the Groups network, Equipment, fixtures and fittings are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any revenue from the sale of equipment, including handsets and revenue arising from accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes directly attributable incremental Access charges and airtime used by contract customers are invoiced and recorded as costs incurred in their acquisition and installation.
part of a periodic billing cycle and recognised as revenue over the related access period, with unbilled revenue resulting from services already provided from the billing cycle Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other than land date to the end of each period accrued and unearned revenue from services provided in and properties under construction, using the straight-line method, over their estimated periods after each accounting period deferred.
Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is useful lives as follows: deferred until such time as the customer uses the airtime, or the credit expires.
Freehold buildings 25 - 50 years Other revenue from mobile telecommunications primarily comprises equipment sales, which are recognised upon delivery to customers, and customer connection revenue.
Leasehold premises the term of the lease Customer connection revenue is recognised together with the related equipment revenue Equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 - 10 years to the extent that the aggregate equipment and connection revenue does not exceed the fair value of the equipment delivered to the customer.
Any customer connection revenue Network infrastructure 3 - 25 years not recognised together with related equipment revenue is deferred and recognised over the period in which services are expected to be provided to the customer.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
76 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 Revenue from data services and information provision is recognised when the Group has differences are recognised in the income statement in the period in which a foreign performed the related service and, depending on the nature of the service, is recognised operation is disposed of.
either at the gross amount billed to the customer or the amount receivable by the Group as commission for facilitating the service.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated accordingly.
Incentives are provided to customers in various forms and are usually offered on signing a new contract or as part of a promotional offering.
In respect of all foreign operations, any exchange differences that have arisen before 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are deemed to be nil and will be excluded Where one-off incentives are provided on connection of a new customer or the upgrade from the determination of any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
of an existing customer, revenue representing the fair value of the incentive, relative to other deliverables provided to the customer as part of the same arrangement, is Borrowing costs deferred and recognised in line with the Groups performance of its obligations relating All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they to the incentive.
For equipment sales made to intermediaries, revenue is recognised if the significant risks associated with the equipment are transferred to the intermediary and the intermediary Post employment benefits has no general right of return.
If the significant risks are not transferred, revenue For defined benefit retirement plans, the difference between the fair value of the plan recognition is deferred until sale of the handset to an end customer by the intermediary assets and the present value of the plan liabilities is recognised as an asset or liability on or the expiry of the right of return.
The Group has early adopted the amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits, issued by the IASB on 16 December 2004 and applied it from 1 April 2004.
Intermediaries are incentivised by the Group to connect new customers and upgrade Accordingly, actuarial gains and losses are taken to the statement of recognised income existing customers.
Where such incentives are separable from the initial sale of and expense.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses comprise both the effects of equipment to an intermediary, the incentive is accounted for as an expense upon changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because of connection, or upgrade, of the customer.
differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
Revenue from other businesses primarily comprises amounts charged to customers of Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income statement, the Groups fixed line businesses, mainly in respect of access charges and line usage, including the current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle.
The interest cost less the expected return on assets is also charged to the income statement.
The amount charged to the income statement in respect of these plans is included within operating costs or in the Group's share of the Inventory results of equity accounted operations as appropriate.
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the basis of weighted average costs and comprises direct materials and, where The values attributed to plan liabilities are assessed in accordance with the advice of applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing independent qualified actuaries.
the inventories to their present location and condition.
The Group's contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the Leasing income statement as they fall due.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the lessee.
All other Cumulative actuarial gains and losses as at 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, leases are classified as operating leases.
have been recognised in the balance sheet.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value Taxation at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease Income tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
payments as determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are Current tax payable or recoverable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to differs from profit as reported in the income statement because some items of income or achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance expense are taxable or deductible in different years or may never be taxable or deductible.
charges are recognised in the income statement.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using UK and foreign tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable in the future arising from an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the the lease term.
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
It is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax Foreign currencies liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary items liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance initial recognition other than in a business combination of assets and liabilities in a sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing on the date when fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on foreign currency are not retranslated.
investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and value are included in the income statement for the period except for differences arising reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates that have been enacted or For the purpose of presenting Consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
liabilities of entities with a functional currency other than sterling are expressed in sterling using exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off items and cash flows are translated at the average exchange rates for the period and current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they either relate to income taxes exchange differences arising are recognised directly in equity.
Such translation Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 77 Financials Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the 2.
Significant accounting policies continued board of directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or on different consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
Changes in values of all taxable entities which intend to settle the current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
derivatives of a financing nature are included within investment income and financing costs in the income statement.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments Tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items for speculative purposes.
charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also recognised directly in equity.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract date, and are subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date.
The Group Financial instruments designates certain derivatives as either: Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the hedges of the change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities fair value contractual provisions of the instrument.
hedges : or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS to financial instruments for all periods presented and has not taken advantage of any exemptions available to first time Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, adopters of IFRS in this respect.
The Group has early adopted IFRS 7, Financial terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Instruments: Disclosures, amendments to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts, regarding Financial Guarantee Fair value hedges Contracts and amendments to IAS 39 regarding The Fair Value Option and Cash Flow The Groups policy is to use derivative instruments primarily interest rate swaps to Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions and applied them from 1 April convert a proportion of its fixed rate debt to floating rates in order to hedge the interest 2004. rate risk arising, principally, from capital market borrowings.
The Group designates these as fair value hedges of interest rate risk with changes in fair value of the hedging Trade receivables instrument recognised in the income statement for the period together with the Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to the hedged risk, to the extent the reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income irrecoverable amounts are based on the ageing of the receivable balances and historical statement.
Individual trade receivables are written off when management deems them not to be collectible.
Net investment hedges Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are recognised directly in equity.
Gains and losses on those hedging Investments instruments designated as hedges of the net investments in foreign operations are Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale recognised in equity to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective.
These of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment amounts are included in exchange differences on translation of foreign operations as within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at stated in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Any ineffectiveness is cost, including transaction costs.
recognised immediately in the income statement for the period.
Gains and losses accumulated in the translation reserve are included in the income statement when the Investments are classified as either held for trading or available-for-sale, and are foreign operation is disposed of.
The Group has adopted the Amendments to IAS 21, measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Where securities are held for The Effect of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, with effect from 1 April 2004, being trading purposes, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in net the date of transition to IFRS for the Group.
profit or loss for the period.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously Provisions recognised in equity, determined using the weighted average costs method, is included Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past in the net profit or loss for the period.
event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value Cash and cash equivalents where the effect is material.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and call deposits, and other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equitysettled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non Trade payables market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will Financial liabilities and equity instruments eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a Fair value is measured using a binomial pricing model which is calibrated using a Blackfinancial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is any contract that Scholes framework.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and includes no obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets.
The accounting and behavioural considerations.
policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Advertising costs Capital market and bank borrowings Expenditure on advertising is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value which is equal to cost at inception, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, except where they are identified as a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowing.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
78 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006
