Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, 1.
Basis of preparation being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with International net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the IASB and its committees, and as interpreted by any regulatory bodies applicable to minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent the Group as adopted for use in the European Union EU, the Companies Act 1985 liabilities recognised.
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, which differs in certain material respects from US Previously held identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP see note 38. entity are revalued to their fair value at the date of acquisition, being the date at which the Group achieves control of the acquiree.
The movement in fair value is taken to the The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to asset revaluation surplus.
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting Interests in joint ventures period.
For a discussion on the Groups critical accounting estimates see Performance A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties Critical Accounting Estimates elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Actual results could undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control, that is when the strategic differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities require the unanimous an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in consent of the parties sharing control.
which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using proportionate Certain amounts in relation to the previous financial year have been reclassified to consolidation.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and cash conform presentation with the requirements of IFRS.
flows of jointly controlled entities are combined with the equivalent items in the results on a line-by-line basis.
Amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements are stated in pounds sterling, the currency of the country in which the Company is incorporated.
The translation into US Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Groups interest in a jointly controlled dollars of the Consolidated Financial Statements as of, and for the financial year ended, entity is accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for goodwill 31 March 2006, is for convenience only and has been made at the Noon Buying Rate for arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary.
cable transfers as announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for customs purposes on 31 March 2006.
This translation should not be Investments in associates construed as a representation that the sterling amounts actually represented have been, An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is or could be, converted into dollars at this or any other rate.
neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Significant accounting policies The Groups significant accounting policies are described below.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the Consolidated Financial Statements using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, Accounting convention investments in associates are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on a historical cost basis except for adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the certain financial and equity instruments that have been measured at fair value.
associate, less any impairment in the value of the investment.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate are not recognised.
Additional losses are provided for, and a liability is recognised, only to the extent that the Group has incurred Basis of consolidation legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled, both unilaterally and jointly, by the Company.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate recognised at the Accounting for subsidiaries date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the amount of the investment.
Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The licences of the Groups associated undertaking in the US, Verizon Wireless, are indefinite lived assets as they are subject to perfunctory renewal.
Accordingly they are The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment, or when indicators income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of exist that the carrying value is not recoverable.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by Intangible assets other members of the Group.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an entity represents the excess of the cost of All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, consolidation.
liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is held in the currency of the from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those acquired entity and revalued to the closing rate at each balance sheet date.
interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the minority Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment.
in excess of the minoritys share of changes in equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement.
to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of Business combinations goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss recognised in the income The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of statement on disposal.
the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Goodwill arising before the date of transition to IFRS, on 1 April 2004, has been retained Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
The acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated their fair values at the acquisition date.
and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 75 Financials
