Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Members of Vodafone Group Plc We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of Vodafone Group Plc, which from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In comprise the consolidated consolidated balance sheets at 31 March 2006 and 2005, forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the consolidated income statements, consolidated cash flow statements, the information in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the part of the directors consolidated statements of recognised income and expenses for each of the two years remuneration report described as having been audited.
in the period ended 31 March 2006 and the related notes numbered 1 to 40.
These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration Opinions report that is described as having been audited.
IFRS opinion In our opinion: We have reported separately on the individual Company Financial Statements of Vodafone Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2006. the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2006 and of its loss for the year then ended: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the Consolidated Financial Statements and the part of the directors remuneration The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance remuneration report and the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
the information given in the directors report is consistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the Consolidated Financial Statements and the part of the As explained in note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Group, in addition directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS as adopted for use in the relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards European Union, has also complied with the IFRS as issued by the International on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Accordingly, in our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at We report to you our opinion as to whether the Consolidated Financial Statements give a 31 March 2006 and of its loss for the year then ended.
true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework and whether the Consolidated Financial Statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in US opinion accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In our opinion the Consolidated Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group at 31 March 2006 and 2005 We report to you if in our opinion the information given in the directors report is not and the consolidated results of its operations and cash flows for each of the two years in consistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We also report to you if we have the period ended 31 March 2006 in conformity with IFRS as adopted for use in the not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
information specified by law regarding directors transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
IFRS vary in significant respects from the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Information relating to the nature and effect of such We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the differences is presented in note 38 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
four directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
Deloitte & Touche LLP We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our London review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does United Kingdom not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statement on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups 30 May 2006 corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of Notes: An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the the directors remuneration report and we consider the implications for our report if we website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.
matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Basis of audit opinion Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board and with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting.
Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Consolidated Financial Statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited are free Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 131 Financials
