Notes to the Company Financial Statements FRS 21 requires that dividends declared after the balance sheet date should not be 1.
Basis of preparation recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date as the liability does not represent The separate financial statements of the Company are drawn up in accordance with a present obligation.
Under FRS 21, interim dividends are recognised when they are the Companies Act 1985 and UK generally accepted accounting principles UK paid, and final dividends are recognised when they are approved by shareholders.
a result of adopting FRS 21, the Companys net assets at 31 March 2005 increased by 1,395 million.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions FRS 23 sets out additional guidance on the translation method for transactions in that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of foreign currencies and on determining the functional and presentational currencies.
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the The adoption of FRS 23 had no impact on the Companys profit or net assets.
reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying The Company has adopted the presentation requirements of FRS 25.
This deals with assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates the classification of capital instruments issued between debt and equity and the are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects implications of that classification for dividends and interest expense.
only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
FRS 26 sets out the requirements for measurement, recognition and fide-recognition of financial instruments.
The main impact of this change in accounting policy is to As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account recognise the fair value of foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps on of the Company is not presented in this Annual Report.
the balance sheet with effect from the transitional date of 1 April 2004.
The adoption of FRS 26 increased the Companys net assets at 31 March 2005 by 182 The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 1 Cash flow million.
statements and has not produced a cash flow statement.
FRS 28 gives the requirements for the disclosure of corresponding amounts for The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 Related items shown in an entitys primary financial statements and the notes to the party disclosures and has not reported transactions with fellow Group financial statements.
The adoption of FRS 28 had no effect upon the Companys undertakings.
FRS 29 sets out the requirements for the disclosures relating to financial 2.
The Company has early adopted FRS 29 and applied its requirements The Companys significant accounting policies are described below.
The Company is exempt from the requirements of the standard as full FRS 29 disclosures are available in the Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006.
Accounting convention The Company Financial Statements are prepared under the historical cost Investments convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards of the UK Shares in Group undertakings are stated at cost less any provision for permanent Accounting Standards Board and pronouncements of the Urgent Issues Task Force.
New accounting standards The Company assesses investments for impairment whenever events or changes in The Company has adjusted its accounting policies to adopt the following new circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an investment may not be standards: FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, FRS 20 Share-based Payments, FRS 21 recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the Company makes an Events after the Balance Sheet Date, FRS 22 Earnings per share, FRS 23 The estimate of the recoverable amount.
If the recoverable amount of the cashEffects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, FRS 26 Financial Instruments: generating unit is less than the value of the investment, the investment is Measurement and FRS 28 Corresponding Amounts.
The Company has also early considered to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
An adopted FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which replaces the disclosure impairment loss is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
requirements of FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
Comparative figures have been restated accordingly for changes in accounting For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value policy.
Details of the effect of the prior year adjustment are set out below and the are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to full impact on the Companys net asset position as at 1 April 2005 is analysed in be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in note 8. equity, determined using the weighted average costs method, is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
FRS 17 impacts the Company in its role as sponsoring employer of the Vodafone Group Pension Scheme, a defined benefit pension scheme.
The adoption of FRS 17 Foreign currencies had no effect on the Companys profit or net assets as the Company was unable to In preparing the financial statements of the Company, transactions in currencies identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the Vodafone Group other than the Companys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange Pension Scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Therefore the Company has prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary applied the guidance within FRS 17 to account for defined benefit schemes as if items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on they were defined contribution schemes and recognise only the contribution the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are payable each year.
The Company had no contributions payable for the years ended denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing on the date 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 as it has no employees.
when fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
FRS 20 requires that the fair value of options and shares awarded to employees is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period.
The Company does Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the not incur a charge under this standard.
However, where the Company has granted retranslation of monetary items, are included in the profit and loss account for the rights over the Companys shares or share options to the employees of its subsidiary period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items undertakings, an additional capital contribution has been deemed to have been carried at fair value are included in the profit and loss account for the period except made by the Company to its subsidiary undertakings.
This results in an additional for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of investment in subsidiaries and a corresponding increase in shareholders equity.
The which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of the grant issued items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in allocated over the underlying grants vesting period.
As a result of adopting FRS 20, equity.
the Companys net assets at 31 March 2005 increased by 419 million.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 133 Financials Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The Companys activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign Borrowing costs exchange rates and interest rates.
All borrowing costs are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which they are incurred.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the board of directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
The Company Taxation does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
date, and are subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date.
The Company designates certain derivatives as hedges of the change of fair value of Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that exist at the balance sheet recognised assets and liabilities fair value hedges.
Hedge accounting is date and that result in an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax in the discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or future.
The deferred tax is measured at the rate expected to apply in the periods in exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on the tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation Fair value hedges computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the The Companys policy is to use derivative instruments primarily interest rate swaps financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from to convert a proportion of its fixed rate debt to floating rates in order to hedge the the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no binding commitment to sell the interest rate risk arising, principally, from capital market borrowings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more designates these as fair value hedges of interest rate risk with changes in fair value likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not of the hedging instrument recognised in the profit and loss account for the period discounted.
together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to the hedged risk, to the extent the hedge is effective.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, are recognised on the balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the Share based payments contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group operates a number of equity settled share based compensation plans for the employees of subsidiary undertakings, using the Companys equity instruments.
The fair value of the compensation given in respect of these share based Financial liabilities and equity instruments compensation plans is recognised as a capital contribution to the Companys Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company are classified subsidiary undertakings, over the vesting period.
The capital contribution is reduced according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the by any payments received from subsidiary undertakings in respect of these share definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is based payments.
any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Dividends paid and received Dividends paid and received are included in the financial statements in the period in Capital market and bank borrowings which the related dividends are actually paid or received or, in respect of the Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value, and are Companys final dividend for the year, approved by shareholders.
subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, except where they are identified as a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowing.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
134 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006
