During the year ended 31 March 2006, 9 million of foreign currency losses were The Group completed its transitional impairment test of Verizon Wireless mobile reclassified from other recognised income and expense and included in the licences as of 1 January 2005.
This resulted in a pre-tax charge of 11,416 million.
This determination of US GAAP net loss as a result of the disposal of Vodafone Sweden.
impairment loss is included, net of the related tax of 5,239 million, in the cumulative During the year ended 31 March 2005, 63 million of foreign currency losses were effect of change in accounting principle in the reconciliation of net loss.
The tax effect reclassified from other recognised income and expense and included in the comprises the release of 1,220 million representing the Groups share of Verizon determination of US GAAP net loss as a result of the partial disposal of Vodafone Egypt.
Wireless deferred tax liabilities and 4,019 million deferred tax liabilities representing Under IFRS, these gains amounted to 36 million for the year ended 31 March 2006. taxes recognised by the Group on its investment in Verizon Wireless.
Fair value was determined as the present value of estimated future net cash flows allocable to the h. Income taxes mobile licences.
Verizon Wireless is included in the segment Mobile The most significant component of the income tax adjustment is due to temporary telecommunications US.
differences between the book basis and tax basis of intangible assets other than goodwill acquired in business combinations prior to 29 September 2004, resulting in the Share-based payments recognition of deferred tax liabilities under US GAAP.
This line item also includes the tax The Group adopted SFAS No.
123 Revised 2004, Share-based Payment, and related effects of the other pre-tax IFRS to US GAAP adjustments described above.
FASB staff positions on 1 October 2005.
123 Revised 2004 eliminates the option to account for share-based payments to employees using the intrinsic value Under IFRS, the Group does not recognise a deferred tax liability on the outside basis method and requires share-based payments to be recorded using the fair value method.
differences in its investment in associates to the extent that the Group controls the Under the fair value method, the compensation cost for employees and directors is timing of the reversal of the difference and it is probable the difference will not reverse in determined at the date awards are granted and recognised over the service period.
Under US GAAP, the Group recognises deferred tax liabilities on these differences.
Concurrent with the adoption of SFAS No.
123 Revised 2004, the Group adopted Staff Accounting Bulletin SAB 107.
SAB 107 summarises the views of the SEC Staff regarding i.
Minority interests the interaction between SFAS No.
123 Revised 2004 and certain SEC rules and Minority interests are reported as a component of total equity under IFRS and, regulations and provides the staffs views regarding the valuation of share-based accordingly, profit for the period does not include an adjustment for profit for the period payment arrangements for public companies.
Under US GAAP, minority interests are reported outside of shareholders equity and the minority interest in the income of consolidated The Group has adopted SFAS No.
123 Revised 2004 using the modified retrospective subsidiaries is an adjustment to US GAAP net income.
Under this method, the Group has adjusted the financial statements for the periods between 1 April 1995 and 30 September 2005 to give effect to the fair value j.
Changes in accounting principles method of accounting for awards granted, modified or settled during those periods on a Post employment benefits basis consistent with the pro forma amounts disclosed under the requirements of the During the second half of the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group amended its policy original SFAS No.
The provisions of for accounting for actuarial gains and losses arising from its pension obligations effective SFAS No.
123 Revised 2004 will be applied to all awards granted, modified, or settled 1 April 2004.
Until 31 March 2004, the Group used a corridor approach under SFAS No.
The effect of applying the original provisions of SFAS No.
123 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions in which actuarial gains and losses were under the modified retrospective method of adoption on the year ended 31 March 2005 deferred and amortised over the expected remaining service period of the employees.
was to decrease loss before income taxes, loss from continuing operations and net loss The Group now recognises these gains and losses through the income statement in the by 66 million, 30 million and 30 million respectively six months ended 30 period in which they arise as the new policy more faithfully represents the Groups September 2005: increases of 4 million, 8 million and 8 million respectively.
The financial position and more closely aligns the Groups US GAAP policy to its IFRS policy adjustment also had the effect of decreasing both basic and diluted loss per share from of immediate recognition of these items.
continuing operations and net loss by 0.05 pence six months ended 30 September 2005: increase 0.01 pence.
123 Revised 2004 increased The cumulative effect on periods prior to adoption of 288 million has been shown, net shareholders equity at 1 April 2004 by 112 million.
of tax of 93 million, as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in the reconciliation of net loss.
The effect of the change in the year ended 31 March 2005 was k. Loss per share to increase loss from continuing operations by 55 million or 0.08 pence per share.
The share options and shares described in note 20 were excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share as the effect of their inclusion in the calculation would be Intangible assets antidilutive due to the Group recognising a loss in all periods presented.
On 29 September 2004, the SEC Staff issued new guidance on the interpretation of SFAS No.
142 in relation to the valuation of intangible assets in business combinations and impairment testing.
This guidance has been codified as EITF Topic D-108.
New accounting standards the Group assigned to mobile licences the residual purchase price in business The Group has not adopted the following standards, which have been issued by the IASB combinations in excess of the fair values of all assets and liabilities acquired other than or the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
The Group mobile licences and goodwill.
This approach was on the basis that mobile licences were does not currently believe the adoption of these standards will have a material impact indistinguishable from goodwill.
The new SEC guidance requires the Group to distinguish on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
between mobile licences and goodwill.
However, the new guidance does not permit the IAS Amendment, Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements amount historically reported as mobile licences to be subsequently reallocated between Capital Disclosures effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2007, with mobile licences and goodwill.
The new guidance will affect the allocation of the purchase price in future business IFRIC 4, Determining whether an Arrangements contains a Lease effective from 1 combinations involving entities with mobile licences.
The Group has applied the April 2006. guidance relating to the allocation of purchase price to all business combinations IFRIC 5, Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and consummated subsequent to 29 September 2004.
This has resulted in values being Environmental Rehabilitation Funds effective from 1 April 2006. assigned to licences using a direct valuation method, with any remaining residual purchase price allocated to goodwill.
IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment effective from 1 April 2006.
In impairment testing of mobile licences associated with the Verizon Wireless equity IFRIC 7, Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29, Financial Reporting in method investment accounted for under SFAS No.
142, the Group has used a similar Hyperinflationary Economies effective from 1 April 2006. residual approach to determine the fair value of the licences when testing the asset for recoverability.
In their announcement, the SEC Staff stated that the residual method of IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 May accounting for intangible assets should no longer be used and that companies should 2006, with early application encouraged.
This interpretation has not yet been perform an impairment test using a direct method on all assets which were previously adopted for use in the EU.
The Groups licences in other businesses are not tested IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives effective for annual periods for recoverability using a residual method and are, therefore, not affected by the new beginning on or after 1 June 2006, with early application encouraged.
interpretation has not yet been adopted for use in the EU.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 125 Financials
