Additional information 2007 financial year calender Holders of ADSs can: Have cash dividends paid direct to a bank account: or Interim results announcement 14 November 2006 Have cash dividends paid by cheque: or Preliminary announcement 23 May 2007 of full year results provisional Elect to have dividends reinvested to purchase additional Vodafone ADSs see below for contact details.
Annual General Meeting At 11.00am on Tuesday 25 July 2006, The Queen Elizabeth II Dividends and ADS holders Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1.
Holders of ADRs evidencing ADSs are generally eligible for all dividends or other entitlements attaching to the underlying The AGM will be transmitted via a live webcast and can be shares of Vodafone Group Plc and receive cash dividends in viewed on the Companys website www.
A recording will be available after that date.
A US holder is subject to US federal income tax on the gross amount of any dividend paid by the Company out of its Listings current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined Ordinary shares of Vodafone Group Plc are traded on the for US federal income tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a nonLondon Stock Exchange and, in the form of American corporate US holder in tax years beginning before 1 January Depositary Shares ADSs, on the New York Stock Exchange.
2009 that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder at a maximum rate of 15%, provided that the ADSs each representing ten ordinary shares, are traded on the ADSs are held for more than 60 days during the 121 day New York Stock Exchange under the symbol of VOD.
The period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and the ADSs are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
holder meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by the Company with respect to the ADSs will generally ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct be qualified dividend income.
The Bank of New York on the exercise of voting rights relative to the number of ordinary shares represented by their ADRs.
A US holder is not subject to a UK withholding tax.
The US holder includes in gross income for US federal tax purposes Dividends only the amount of the dividend actually received from the Set out below is information relevant to the final dividend for Company, and the receipt of a dividend does not entitle the the financial year ended 31 March 2006.
US holder to a foreign tax credit.
Ex-dividend date 7 June 2006 Dividends must be included in income when the Depository actually or constructively receives the dividend and will not be Record date 9 June 2006 eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally DRIP election date 14 July 2006 allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received Dividend payment date 4 August 2006 from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the United States.
Dividend payment methods Holders of ordinary shares can: ADS holders unsure of their tax position should consult their Have cash dividends paid direct to a bank account or building independent tax adviser.
society account: or Dividend reinvestment Have cash dividends paid in the form of a cheque: or The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which allows Elect to reinvest dividends to purchase more Vodafone holders of ordinary shares who choose to participate to use shares under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan see below.
their cash dividends to acquire additional shares in the Company.
These are purchased on their behalf by the Plan Administrator If a holder of ordinary shares does decide to receive cash through a low cost dealing arrangement.
Further details can be dividends, it is recommended that these are paid directly obtained from the Plan Administrator on 44 0 870 702 0198. to the shareholders bank or building society account via BACS EFTS.
This avoids the risk of cheques being lost in the For ADS holders, The Bank of New York maintains a Global post and means the dividend will be in that shareholders BuyDIRECT Plan for the Company, which is a direct purchase and account on the dividend payment date.
The shareholder will sale plan for depositary receipts, with a dividend reinvestment be sent a tax voucher confirming the amount of dividend facility.
For additional information, please call toll-free on and the account into which it has been paid.
1 800 233 5601, or write to The Bank of New York, Shareholder Relations Department, Global BuyDIRECT Please contact our Registrars for further details.
For calls from outside the US, call 1 212 815 3700.
Please note that this number is not toll-free.
or, if later, at the conclusion of the Extraordinary General Meeting to be held immediately before it at 10:45am.
26 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Shareholder enquiries Corporate Sponsored Nominee Service For Shareholders If you hold ordinary shares and have any questions about the Subject to changes to the Companys Articles of Association administration of your shareholding, such as change of address, being approved at the Annual General Meeting on 25 July 2006, dividend payment instructions or consolidation of ordinary the Company intends to establish a Corporate Nominee Service share accounts, please contact the Companys Registrars: for Shareholders, which would be operated by the Companys Computershare Investor Services PLC, Registrar.
The service provides a facility for shareholders to PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH.
remove their shares from the Vodafone Group Plc share register Tel: 44 0 870 702 0198. and hold them, together with other shareholders, through a Email: web.
There would be no need for a share certificate and, in addition, shareholders details will not be held on the main For ordinary shareholders resident in Ireland, contact: share register and so will remain confidential.
Computershare Investor Services Ireland Limited, PO Box 9742, Dublin 18, Ireland.
Details will be available following the AGM on the Companys Tel: 353 0 818 300 999. website at www.
ie The Depositary Bank for the Companys ADR programme is: The Bank of New York, Investor Relations Dept, P. O.
Box 11258, Church St. Station, New York NY 10286-1258 USA.
ADS holders should address any queries or instructions regarding their holding to the The Bank of New York at the above address or telephone number.
Internet Consolidation of ordinary share accounts If you have access to the internet you are welcome to Shareholders whose total registered shareholding is visit us at: represented by more than one account, evidenced by the receipt of duplicate copies of communications from the www.
com Company to shareholders, and who wish to have their holdings consolidated should send an appropriate letter of instruction Further information available on this site includes: to the Companys Registrars.
Benefits to ShareGift shareholders and the Company include faster receipt The Company supports ShareGift, the charity share donation of communications such as annual reports and cost scheme registered charity number 1052686. and time savings for Vodafone.
Electronic shareholder communications are also more environmentally friendly: Through ShareGift, shareholders who have only a very small Current share price information ordinary shares only : number of shares which might be considered uneconomic to sell are able to donate them to charity.
Further details about Calculating dividend payments: ShareGift can be obtained from its website at www.
org Postal and Telephone share dealing service for holders or from ShareGift, 5 Lower Grosvenor Place, London SW1W 0EJ of ordinary shares: Telephone: 44 0 20 7828 1151.
Interactive tools to calculate the value of share holdings, The Unclaimed Assets Register look up the historic price on a particular date and chart The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register, Vodafone ordinary share price changes against indices: and which provides a search facility for financial assets which Geographical analysis of shareholders.
may have been forgotten and which donates a proportion of its public search fees to a group of three UK charities Shareholders and other interested parties can also receive Age Concern, NSPCC and Scope.
For further information, Company press releases, including London Stock contact The Unclaimed Assets Register, Garden Floor, Exchange announcements, by registering for Vodafone Bain House, 16 Connaught Place, London W2 2ES telephone: News via the Companys web site.
co. uk Registering for Vodafone News will enable users to: Access the latest news direct from your mobile: and Have news automatically emailed to them.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 27
