Shareholder Information Registrars Taxation The Companys registrars are Computershare Investor Services For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market value of The PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, Weir Group PLC ordinary shares as at 31 March 1982 was 29.75p.
Rights issues of ordinary shares took place in April 1987 at 157p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every seven Shareholder enquiries relating to shareholding, dividend payments, ordinary shares held, in July 1990 at 250p per share on the basis change of address, loss of share certicate etc.
should be addressed of one new ordinary share for every five ordinary shares held and to Computershare Investor Services PLC at the above address.
in September 1994 at 252p per share on the basis of one new The registrars provide an on-line service that enables shareholders ordinary share for every four ordinary shares held.
to access details of their Weir Group shareholdings.
A shareholder With effect from 28 June 1993, each ordinary share of 25p was wishing to view the information, together with additional sub-divided into two ordinary shares of 12.5p and the market information such as indicative share prices and details of recent value of an ordinary share as at 31 March 1982 takes account dividends, should visit www-uk.
Dividends payment direct to banks Shareholder communications Dividends can be paid direct to your bank or building society You can now register to receive shareholder communications account using the Bankers Automated Clearing Service BACS.
annual reports, interim reports and other company communications This means that your dividend will be in your account on the same electronically and also appoint a proxy and vote electronically day the Company makes the payment.
Your tax voucher will be provided you have internet access and a valid e-mail address.
posted directly to your own address.
Shareholders who have not To register, you will need your Shareholder Reference Number, yet arranged to use this method of payment, can telephone the which is given on your Share Certicate or Tax Dividend Voucher.
The Company encourages you to This service is provided in conjunction with our registrars, have your dividends paid direct to a bank or building society.
To obtain more information and register for this service, please visit Annual General Meeting www-uk.
The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Lecture Room, The Burrell Collection, Pollok Park, Glasgow on 9 May 2007 at 11am.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are contained in the shareholders circular.
98 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Website on telephone number 0870 703 0084.
Shareholders should have their Shareholder Reference Number SRN ready when making You may wish to view the Company website containing details the call.
The SRN appears on share certicates.
A bank debit card of Group activities and investor information including the Notice will be required for purchases.
Detailed terms and conditions are of the Annual General Meeting and the full annual report.
available on request by telephoning 0870 703 0119.
Please note The address is: www.
this service is, at present, only available to shareholders resident in the UK and Ireland.
Share dealing services These services are offered on an execution only basis and subject to Share dealing services have been established with the Companys the applicable terms and conditions.
This is not a recommendation registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC which provide to buy, sell or hold Weir Group shares.
Shareholders who are shareholders with an easy way to buy or sell Weir Group shares unsure of what action to take should obtain independent financial on the London Stock Exchange.
Share values may go down as well as up which may result Internet Share Dealing commission is just 0.5%, subject to a in a shareholder receiving less than he she originally invested.
In addition stamp duty, currently To the extent that this statement is a financial promotion for the 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
There is no need to open an share dealing service provided by Computershare Investor Services account in order to deal.
Real time dealing is available during PLC, it has been approved by Computershare Investor Services market hours.
In addition there is a convenient facility to PLC for the purpose of Section 21 2 b of the Financial Services place your order outside of market hours.
Up to 90 day limit and Markets Act 2000 only.
Computershare Investor Services PLC orders are available for sales.
To access the service log on to is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Shareholders should have Where this has been received in a country where the provision their Shareholder Reference Number SRN available.
The SRN of such a service would be contrary to local laws or regulations, appears on share certicates.
A bank debit card will be required this should be treated as information only.
Please note that, at present, this service is only available to shareholders in certain European jurisdictions.
Please refer to the website for an up-to-date list of these countries.
Voting Information on how you can vote electronically can be obtained Telephone Share Dealing commission is 1%, subject to a through our registrars by visiting minimum charge of GBP15.
In addition stamp duty, currently www-uk.
The service is available from 8am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 99
