com 119 Independent auditors report to the members of AWG Plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion AWG Plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International the company balance sheet, company statement of total Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing recognised gains and losses and the related notes.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, company financial statements have been prepared under the of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the parent company financial statements and the part of the information in the Directors remuneration report that is Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an described as having been audited.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial We have reported separately on the group financial statements statements, and of whether the accounting policies are of AWG plc for the year ended 31 March 2006. appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Directors remuneration report and the parent company information and explanations which we considered necessary in financial statements in accordance with applicable law and order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom assurance that the parent company financial statements and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are statement of Directors responsibilities.
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report information in the parent company financial statements and the to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared Opinion for and only for the companys members as a body in In our opinion: accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and The parent company financial statements give a true and fair for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it as at 31 March 2006. may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in The parent company financial statements and the part of the writing.
Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent The information given in the Directors report is consistent company financial statements give a true and fair view and with the parent company financial statements.
whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP We report to you whether in our opinion the information given Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors in the Directors report is consistent with the parent company Birmingham financial statements.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, 30 May 2006 the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report and the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
