DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT REPORT Statement of directors This report is made solely to the Basis of audit opinion Companys members, as a body, in responsibilities in relation We conducted our audit in accordance accordance with Section 235 of the to the accounts with International Standards on Auditing Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing The following statement, which should be been undertaken so that we might state Practices Board.
read in conjunction with the statement to the Companys members those matters of auditors responsibilities set out below An audit includes examination, on a test we are required to state to them in an is made with a view to distinguishing for basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts auditors report and for no other purpose.
shareholders the respective responsibilities and disclosures in the parent company To the fullest extent permitted by law, we of the directors and the auditors in relation financial statements and the part of the do not accept or assume responsibility to the accounts.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also to anyone other than the Company and includes an assessment of the significant the Companys members as a body, for The directors are required by the estimates and judgments made by our audit work, for this report, or for the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts the directors in the preparation of the opinions we have formed.
for the financial year which give a true parent company financial statements, and fair view of the state of aairs of the and of whether the accounting policies Company as at the end of the financial Respective responsibilities of are appropriate to the Companys year and of the profit or loss of the directors and auditors circumstances, consistently applied Company for the year.
The directors are responsible for preparing and adequately disclosed.
the Annual Report, the Remuneration The directors consider that in preparing the We planned and performed our audit Report and the parent company financial accounts on pages 69 to 72 the Company so as to obtain all the information and statements in accordance with applicable has used appropriate accounting policies, explanations which we considered United Kingdom law and Accounting consistently applied and supported by necessary in order to provide us with Standards United Kingdom Generally reasonable and prudent judgements sufficient evidence to give reasonable Accepted Accounting Practice as set and estimates, and that all accounting assurance that the parent company out in the Statement of Directors standards which they consider to be financial statements and the part of the Responsibilities.
applicable have been followed, subject Remuneration Report to be audited are to any explanations and any material Our responsibility is to audit the parent free from material misstatement, whether departures disclosed in the notes to company financial statements and the caused by fraud or other irregularity or the accounts.
part of the Remuneration Report to be error.
In forming our opinion we also audited in accordance with relevant The accounts have been prepared on evaluated the overall adequacy of the legal and regulatory requirements and a going concern basis as the directors presentation of information in the parent International Standards on Auditing have a reasonable expectation that the company financial statements and UK and Ireland.
Company has adequate resources to the part of the Remuneration Report continue in operational existence for the to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether foreseeable future.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Opinion The directors have responsibility for parent company financial statements and ensuring that the Company keeps In our opinion: the part of the Remuneration Report to be accounting records which disclose, with the parent company financial audited have been properly prepared in reasonable accuracy, the financial position statements give a true and fair view, accordance with the Companies Act 1985. of the Company and which enable them to in accordance with United Kingdom We also report to you if, in our opinion, the ensure that the accounts comply with the Generally Accepted Accounting Directors Report is not consistent with Companies Act 1985.
Practice, of the state of the Companys the parent company financial statements, The directors have general responsibility aairs as at 2 March 2006: and if the company has not kept proper for taking such steps, as are reasonably accounting records, if we have not received the parent Company financial open to them and which they deem all the information and explanations we statements and the part of the appropriate to safeguard the assets of require for our audit, or if information Remuneration Report to be the Company and to seek to prevent and specified by law regarding directors audited have been properly detect fraud and other irregularities.
remuneration and other transactions prepared in accordance with is not disclosed.
Independent auditors report to the We read other information contained in shareholders of Whitbread PLC the Annual Report and consider whether Ernst & Young LLP We have audited the parent company it is consistent with the audited parent Registered Auditor financial statements of Whitbread company financial statements.
The London PLC for the year ended 2 March 2006 other information comprises only the which comprise the Balance Sheet and Directors Report, the unaudited part of 24 April 2006 the related notes 1 to 13.
These parent the Remuneration Report, the Chairmans company financial statements have been Statement, the Chief Executives Review, prepared under the accounting policies the Finance Directors Review, the set out therein.
We have also audited the Corporate Responsibility Report and information in the Remuneration Report the Corporate Governance Report.
We that is described as having been audited.
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent We have reported separately on the Group misstatements or material inconsistencies financial statements of Whitbread PLC for with the parent company financial the year ended 2 March 2006. statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
PAGE 68 Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2005 6
