DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT REPORT Statement of directors To the fullest extent permitted by law, Basis of audit opinion we do not accept or assume responsibility responsibilities We conducted our audit in accordance with to anyone other than the Company and International Standards on Auditing UK The following statement, which should the Companys members as a body, for and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices be read in conjunction with the auditors our audit work, for this report, or for the Board.
An audit includes examination, on statement of their responsibilities below, opinions we have formed.
a test basis, of evidence relevant to the is made with a view to distinguishing for amounts and disclosures in the Group shareholders the respective responsibilities Respective responsibilities of financial statements.
It also includes an of the directors and of the auditors in directors and auditors assessment of the significant estimates relation to the financial statements.
and judgments made by the directors in The directors are responsible for preparing The directors are required by the Companies the preparation of the Group financial the Annual Report and the Group financial Act 1985 to prepare financial statements statements, and of whether the accounting statements in accordance with applicable for each financial year which give a true and policies are appropriate to the Groups United Kingdom law and International fair view of the state of aairs of the Group circumstances, consistently applied and Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as at the end of the financial year and of the adequately disclosed.
as adopted by the European Union as profit or loss for the financial year.
set out in the Statement of Directors We planned and performed our audit The directors consider that in preparing the Responsibilities.
so as to obtain all the information and financial statements on pages 20 to 66, the explanations which we considered Our responsibility is to audit the Group Group has used appropriate accounting necessary in order to provide us with financial statements in accordance with policies, consistently applied and supported sufficient evidence to give reasonable relevant legal and regulatory requirements by reasonable and prudent judgements assurance that the Group financial and International Standards on Auditing and estimates, and that all applicable statements are free from material UK and Ireland.
Accounting Standards have been followed.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud We report to you our opinion as to or other irregularity or error.
In forming The directors have responsibility for whether the Group financial statements our opinion we also evaluated the ensuring that the Group keeps accounting give a true and fair view and whether the overall adequacy of the presentation records which disclose with reasonable Group financial statements have been of information in the Group financial accuracy the financial position of the Group properly prepared in accordance with statements.
and which enable them to ensure that the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the financial statements comply with the the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you Companies Act 1985.
Opinion if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is In our opinion the Group financial The directors have general responsibility for not consistent with the Group financial statements: taking such steps as are reasonably open to statements, if we have not received all the them to safeguard the assets of the Group information and explanations we require give a true and fair view in accordance and to prevent and detect fraud and other for our audit, or if information specified by with IFRSs as adopted by the European irregularities.
law regarding directors remuneration and Union, of the state of the Groups aairs other transactions is not disclosed.
at 2 March 2006 and of its profit for the Independent auditors report to the year then ended: and We review whether the Corporate members of Whitbread PLC Governance Statement reects the have been properly prepared in Companys compliance with the nine We have audited the Group financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985 provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined statements of Whitbread PLC for the year and Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
Code specified for our review by the Listing ended 2 March 2006 which comprise Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the consolidated Income Statement, Ernst & Young LLP and we report if it does not.
We are not the consolidated Balance Sheet, the Registered Auditor required to consider whether the Boards consolidated Statement of Recognised London statements on internal control cover all Income and Expenses and the consolidated risks and controls, or form an opinion on Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 24 April 2006 the eectiveness of the Groups corporate 1 to 39.
These Group financial statements governance procedures or its risk and have been prepared under the accounting control procedures.
We read other information contained in We have reported separately on the the Annual Report and Accounts and the parent company financial statements Annual Review and Summary Report and of Whitbread PLC for the year ended consider whether it is consistent with the 2 March 2006 and on the information in the audited Group financial statements.
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the Chairmans This report is made solely to the Companys Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the members, as a body, in accordance with Finance Directors Review, the Corporate Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Responsibility Report and the Corporate audit work has been undertaken so that Governance Report.
we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to We consider the implications for our report them in an auditors report and for no other if we become aware of any apparent purpose.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
