WHITBREAD PLC ANALYSIS OF SHARES Analysis of shares 2 March 2006 Band Number of holders % of holders Number of shares % of share capital 1-100 26,579 40.50 1,019,072 0.39 Contents 101-500 24,883 37.92 5,918,699 2.28 501-1000 7,791 11.87 5,317,017 2.05 1001-5000 5,222 7.96 9,520,681 3.68 5001-10000 330 0.50 2,257,144 0.87 10001-25000 241 0.37 3,719,829 1.44 25001-125000 304 0.46 17,745,592 6.85 125001-250000 100 0.15 17,774,684 6.86 250001-1250000 136 0.21 74,882,823 28.91 1 Directors report 1250001-2500000 20 0.03 35,511,106 13.71 2500001 21 0.03 85,367,608 32.96 3 Corporate governance report Total 65,627 100.00 259,034,255 100.00 8 Remuneration report 18 Whitbread PLC Consolidated accounts 19 Directors responsibility for the consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report 20 Consolidated income statement 21 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 22 Consolidated balance sheet 23 Consolidated cash ow statement 24 Notes to the accounts 67 Whitbread PLC Company accounts 68 Directors responsibility for the Company financial statements Independent auditors report 69 Balance sheet 70 Notes to the accounts 73 Analysis of shares The full Whitbread Report and Accounts 2005 6 comprising this document together with the Annual Review and Summary Report are published on the Companys website www.
co. uk and can also be obtained, free of charge, by telephoning Computershare on 0870 703 0103.
Designed and produced by Dragon.
Printed by Royle Corporate Print, registered to the environment standard ISO 14001.
The material used in this report comprises 50% recycled bre and 50% TCF Totally Chlorine Free virgin bre, sourced from sustainable forests and produced by a mill registered to ISO 14001.
Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2005 6 PAGE 73 Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2005 6 Whitbread PLC Whitbread House, Park Street West, Luton, Bedfordshire LU1 3BG www.
co. uk Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2005 6 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2005 6 OVERVIEW Contents Whitbread PLC is the UKs leading hospitality company.
We have made continued progress towards our stated 1 Financial and strategic highlights strategic objectives of focusing our management and capital on those businesses in which we have leading 2 Chairmans statement positions and strong growth prospects.
3 Chief Executives review 10 Finance Directors review 12 Corporate responsibility 14 Board of directors 16 Summary remuneration report 19 Summary directors report 20 Independent auditors statement Sports, health and tness clubs Budget hotels 21 Consolidated income statement David Lloyd Leisure 58 sports, health Premier Travel Inn the UKs biggest 22 Consolidated statement of and tness clubs across the UK with hotels business, with more than recognised income and expense another 10 clubs overseas.
31,000 bedrooms in over 470 locations throughout the UK.
23 Consolidated balance sheet 24 Consolidated cash ow statement 25 Shareholder services, share dealing services and financial diary The Annual Review aims to give shareholders a clear and concise overview of the Groups business and prospects, but does not contain Restaurants suf cient information to allow for as full an understanding of the results Pub restaurants the UKs biggest Costa with more than 430 stores, the and a airs of the Group as would be pub restaurants business with more UKs second-biggest branded co ee shop provided by the full Whitbread Annual than 620 outlets, mainly under the business.
It is also developing outside the Report and Accounts 2005 6.
Brewers Fayre and Beefeater brands.
UK under franchise and now has more More than 270 are co-located with than 120 stores overseas.
Throughout this document there a Premier Travel Inn.
may be references to the notes to the accounts.
These notes can be found in the Directors Report and Accounts but are not contained within this document.
The full Whitbread Report and Accounts 2005 6 comprising this document together with the Directors Report and Accounts are published on the Companys website www.
co. uk and can also be obtained, free TGI Fridays 47 American restaurant and Pizza Hut UK the UKs biggest of charge, either by completing and bar outlets across the UK.
Operated under pizza restaurant business with more returning the option card on the reverse franchise from Carlson Hospitality.
than 650 outlets across the country.
of the Form of Proxy, or by telephoning Pizza Hut UK is a 50 50 joint venture Computershare on 0870 703 0103. with Yum!
Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2005 6 F FI IN NA AN NC CI IA AL L A AN ND D S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C H HI IG GH HL LI IG GH HT TS S Financial highlights continuing Whitbread 2005 6 change Group sales 1,584.0m 9.2% profit before tax and exceptional items 181.1m 13.1% Final dividend 19.95p 8.7% Full year dividend 27.30p 8.1% Growth of proforma basic EPS 8.8% Strategic highlights Completion of Marriott asset sale Next steps in the execution of our strategy: Continued expansion of Premier Travel Inn in the UK and now overseas Focus pub restaurants on joint budget hotel sites with potential to build additional Premier Travel Inns on the existing estate Plan to dispose of solus pub restaurants Continued operational improvement at David Lloyd Leisure New target to double the number of Costa stores Asset disposals announced last year are on track to realise 1.3 billion Accelerated capital return of 400 million bringing the total to 810 million PAGE 1 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT growth with focus Anthony Habgood My first period as Chairman of Whitbread has been both Chairman interesting and exciting as the Group repositions itself for focused growth while continuing to realise shareholder value.
Following the decision to exit from Dividend During the year, we have also welcomed the relatively complex full service three new members to the Board.
The Board is recommending a final hotel business earlier in the year, Alan On 1 May 2005, Christopher Rogers dividend payment of 19.95p per share, Parker and his new executive team have joined Whitbread as Finance Director, making a total dividend for the year thoroughly reviewed the structure of the having previously been finance director of 27.30p per share, an increase of 8.1%.
Overheads have been signicantly of Woolworths Group plc.
In July 2005 The final dividend will be paid on reduced, management changes made and Margaret Ewing, finance director of 7 July 2006 to shareholders on the register the customer proposition substantially BAA plc joined our Board as a nonat the close of business on 5 May 2006. sharpened to enable profitable growth to executive director.
This was then followed resume across the brands where it was on 1 January 2006 with the appointment Our people no longer evident.
David Lloyd Leisure, of an additional non-executive director, Unquestionably, it is our people that make especially, is showing clear initial signs Phil Clarke, who is a director at Tesco plc us the UKs leading hospitality company.
of recovery with growth already being where he is responsible for international We believe that by taking care of our achieved again.
Meanwhile, Premier Travel operations and IT.
The wide range of 45,000 team members they will take care Inn successfully integrated the Premier experience that Chris, Margaret and Phil of our guests who will return time and Lodge acquisition and resumed a higher bring with them is already proving of great again to drive sales and profits.
We rely on growth path both organically and through value to the Group.
our people every day to provide millions incremental acquisitions of existing hotels of guests with a welcome with a smile for conversion.
Costa also accelerated and a great customer experience.
its growth rate and is now the fastest I would like to thank them for their loyalty, growing and most profitable of the professionalism and hard work.
UKs major coee shop brands while at the same time expanding its international operations.
The Board Anthony Habgood Since I joined the Board last May, there While these strongest brands are Chairman have been a number of changes to its producing good results and are membership.
On 1 August 2005 Sir John 24 April 2006 accelerating their development, the Banham stepped down from his role disposal of non-core assets is continuing.
as Chairman and I should like to take Close to 1.3 billion has been raised from this opportunity to thank him for his a number of successful disposals including immense contribution to Whitbread Marriott, our Britvic stake and the historic during his five year tenure.
At the AGM Chiswell Street headquarters building.
on 14 June 2005 Prue Leith and David 410 million of this has already been paid Williamson, who have served Whitbread out to shareholders in special dividends for 10 years and seven years respectively, or share buybacks with a commitment to retired from their non-executive director a further 400 million already made.
Stewart Miller, Managing We have further announced our plans Director of David Lloyd Leisure who joined to focus on the joint site model for pub the Board as an executive director in 2000, restaurants which are co-located with left the Company in September 2005.
In Premier Travel Inns, to sell some 250 March 2006 David Turner, who has been stand-alone pub restaurants and review a member of the Board since 2001 and our franchised high street brands.
Chairman of the Audit Committee since We now face the future as a leaner, 2002, retired from his non-executive duties sharper, more focused Group intent on to dedicate his time to his Chief Executive continuing to create shareholder value role at Brambles Industries.
Over their through utilising our assets ever more many years with Whitbread they have eectively while achieving profitable provided invaluable guidance and support growth in our chosen markets both during a period of significant change for organically and through selective the Company.
I should like to thank them acquisition activity.
for all their eorts and counsel and wish them the very best for the future.
PAGE 2 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2005 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Alan Parker Over the past 12 months we have delivered important Chief Executive structural changes across our business to improve performance and create value.
2005 6 has been a busy year for Whitbread.
Continued evolution I would like to draw your attention to the We have delivered on our major structural key strategic, operational and structural Throughout the year we have made objectives namely the delivery of the changes that we have made this year to continued progress towards our stated business case for Premier Lodge and the improve performance and deliver value: strategic objectives of focusing our disposal of our Marriott assets.
I regard management and capital on those these two events as key achievements over Realisation of the asset disposals businesses in which we have leading the last twelve months.
positions and strong growth prospects.
announced last year It has also been a year where improving Over the past 12 months we have We have announced some important performance, reducing costs and investing successfully completed the asset disposals next steps in our execution of this strategy to grow our best performing brands have announced last year and are on track including: dominated our agenda.
to crystallise 1.3 billion worth of value for accelerating growth in our high our shareholders.
None of these successes could have performing businesses with the been achieved without our 45,000 Marriott continued expansion of Premier Travel team members who continue to do an Inn in the UK to 45,000 rooms and now In May 2005 we sold the majority of our outstanding job in delivering a great overseas and a new target to double the Marriott hotels into a joint venture with service to the millions of guests that visit number of Costa stores by 2010: and Marriott International and transferred the our brand outlets every day.
I should like operation of these hotels over to them.
the decision to focus our Pub Restaurants to thank them very sincerely for their The joint venture has now completed business on the joint sites where there is enthusiasm, support and hard work.
the sale of these hotels to Royal Bank a Premier Travel Inn alongside.
We also of Scotland for 951 million with an see potential to develop additional new Group performance additional 30 million from the sale of Premier Travel Inns on further sites in the the Leicester Marriott hotel development.
Group turnover from continuing existing estate.
This highly successful operations grew year-on-year by 9.2% to combination of a Premier Travel Inn Britvic 1,584 million.
This growth was driven by and a pub restaurant is a compelling Along with our fellow shareholders, the full year e ect of the Premier Lodge customer proposition and provides Intercontinental Hotels Group and acquisition, which took place in July 2004, industry leading returns.
As a result we Pernod Ricard, we disposed of our outlet growth predominantly at Premier have signalled our intention to dispose 23.75% stake in Britannia Soft Drinks Ltd Travel Inn and Costa and underlying likeof the balance of our freestanding pub BSD by an initial public o ering.
for-like sales growth across the Group of restaurants.
We have also announced This resulted in an exceptional pro t 0.4%.
Sales growth excluding the year-onthat we will be reviewing the nature and on disposal of 140 million.
year impact of Premier Lodge was 4.7%.
size of our investments in our franchised The Brewery, Chiswell Street restaurant businesses, TGI Fridays Pro t before tax and exceptional items for and Pizza Hut.
the year was up 13.1% to 181.1 million.
In October 2005 we completed the sale On a proforma basis, adjusting for the of Whitbreads historic Brewery site in the impact of the Marriott disposal and the City of London for 55 million, more than special dividend, the underlying basic double book value.
earnings per share on a continuing basis is up some 9% to 46.0p.
Our focus over the past 12 months has been to improve operating performance across all our businesses and to ensure we put the foundations in place in our under-performing businesses to create sustainable long-term growth.
Further details of the performance of each of the individual businesses is covered on pages 6 to 9 in this report.
PAGE 3 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW improving operational performance Return of capital to shareholders Completion of the successful Delivery of ambitious growth and commitment to further returns integration of Premier Lodge in Premier Travel Inn and Costa into the newly created Of the expected proceeds of 1.3 billion During the year we have taken a Premier Travel Inn brand raised through the sale of these non-core disciplined and focused approach to assets we have already returned capital investment and have aggressively Following the acquisition of Premier 400 million to shareholders by a pursued organic growth in our best Lodge in July 2004, the integration of special dividend in May last year.
performing brands Premier Travel Inn this business into the newly created and Costa.
Premier Travel Inn brand was completed In September 2005 we announced on plan and has delivered both cost and plans to return a further 400 million Premier Travel Inns growth continues revenue synergies.
to shareholders, which was some at a pace.
In March we opened our 150 million more than previously 30,000th room at the Premier Travel Inn It has proved an invaluable addition announced, clearly demonstrating Hammersmith in London.
We subsequently to our business, creating the largest our ongoing commitment to improve announced the acquisition of seven budget hotel brand in the UK.
The size returns for our shareholders.
Holiday Inn hotels 1,021 rooms for of our estate coupled with the high conversion to the Premier Travel Inn brand quality product and service we oer has This 400 million return commenced in and a revised growth target of 45,000 enabled us to increase occupancy and October by an on market share buy back rooms in the UK by 2010, representing yield, consistently outperforming our programme and to date 10 million has a 50% increase in the size of our estate.
We have announced the remaining return will be made by a bonus The brand is also set to launch overseas issue of B shares to give shareholders a and we have announced a joint venture choice between receiving the cash in the agreement with Emirates Group to form of income or capital, and, so far as introduce budget hotels to the Gulf region, possible, to give those who choose capital initially with three sites identied in Dubai.
some choice as to when the return is Costa is now the UKs fastest growing made.
The return will be accompanied coee shop chain, opening a record by a share consolidation to maintain 146 stores this year with 94 in the UK comparability of earnings per share and and 52 internationally.
We have ventured other Company data.
A circular seeking into new markets such as India, Pakistan shareholder approval for the return is and Cyprus and celebrated the opening expected to be issued in May and cash of our 500th store worldwide.
We have returned in July 2006. set a new target to double the number of Costa stores by 2010.
PAGE 4 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2005 6 significant contribution As a result of this restructuring we removed Key Board and 250 roles from our brand and corporate to the pension fund management appointments central teams, which will deliver cost At 2 March 2006 there was a gross pension Over the past year we have seen a number savings of some 25 million from the fund deficit of 338 million net deficit of changes to our Board, which are detailed underlying cost base of the business.
after deferred tax of 237 million.
To date in the Chairmans Statement.
I should like to we have made a 100 million contribution make special reference to the appointment We also announced plans to consolidate to the Fund and committed to payment of Anthony Habgood as Chairman and the our three Bedfordshire-based ofces into of a further 190 million over the next retirement of Sir John Banham from the role two ofces and anticipate the relocation five years.
We also announced a number in August 2005.
I would like personally to of teams to take place later this summer.
of further measures, which are intended take this opportunity to thank Sir John for to reduce the deficit including an increase his invaluable contribution during his five New WINcard introduced in members contributions and a cap year chairmanship and the support At the beginning of the financial year in on increase in pensions for service post he showed me.
March 2005 we introduced a common March 2006 at 2.5% per annum.
This year we have also made a number balanced scorecard the WINcard of significant changes within our senior Whitbread In Numbers right across Major cost reduction programme management team.
In October, Mike Tye the business.
In October we announced significant became the new Managing Director of It is now used consistently at every changes within our senior management David Lloyd Leisure.
Mike was previously unit and by every brand to measure team to drive improved performance from the Managing Director at Premier Travel performance across the key stakeholders our businesses and establish a new and Inn where he was succeeded by Patrick employees, guests and investors.
This new Dempsey, previously Managing Director at provides them, on a monthly basis, with structure further increases the economies Marriott.
Additionally we have announced critical information to help them make the of scale of the Group and comprises a changes in our Pub Restaurants, Costa and right decisions for their business and series of integrated shared services that Pizza Hut businesses with Mark Phillips drive continuous improvement.
will serve all the brands, covering Human replacing Phil Urban as the new Managing Resources, Property, Finance, Information Director of Pub Restaurants.
Mark has had Systems and Communications.
a long career with Whitbread and during his 27 year service has held a number of management positions.
Mark will be replaced at Costa by John Derkach.
John joined Whitbread in 1994 and for the last four years has been Managing Director of Pizza Hut UK.
Costa is now the UKs fastest growing coee shop chain, opening a record 146 stores this year with 94 in the UK and 52 internationally.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW PAGE 5 OPERATING REVIEW Premier Travel Inn: Premier Travel Inn has delivered another strong performance in 2005 6 with total sales increasing from 319.4 million to 407.8 million and operating pro t up by 30.4% to 139.8 million.
Premier Travel Inn 2005 6 change During 2005 6 we have opened 1,638 Our leading edge reservation system new bedrooms 14 new sites and reached continues to make good headway in Sales 407.8m 27.7% the milestone of 30,000 rooms with the developing our routes to market.
We Like-for-like opening of the London Hammersmith ended the year with a record high of sales 7.0% Premier Travel Inn.
We have announced 44% of all reservations taken via the web a target of 45,000 rooms in the UK by with five million room nights booked Oper Oper Opera a ating ting ting pr pr pro o o t t t 2010, representing a 50% increase.
With on-line, the highest in the budget hotel pr pree-e ex xceptionals ceptionals 139.8m 30.4% the recently completed purchase of seven sector.
In January 2006 we unveiled a Oper Oper Opera a ating ting ting pr pr pro o o t t t Holiday Inns 1,021 rooms, which will be revolutionary online booking tool called post post e ex xceptionals ceptionals 139.2m 37.8% converted to Premier Travel Inn in the first XML for corporate travel agents, which half of 2006 7, we have made a strong provides them with real-time access to our start towards this target.
Our business account On a like-for-like basis, sales have increased card now accounts for over 50 million of by 7.0% and Return on Capital Employed In 2005 6 we have made signi cant business per annum.
for the entire estate including Premier investment in the estate to ensure we Lodge has increased from 10.0% to 12.7%.
retain our position as the leading brand X sell where we o er guests the nearest Pro t per room now stands at 4,982. in the budget sector.
This has been available Premier Travel Inn bedroom if recognised by the 2006 BDRC Hotel Guest their first choice location is unavailable Premier Travel Inn continues to have Survey, which awarded Premier Travel Inn continues to go from strength to strength.
the highest occupancy levels of any Most Improved Brand, an award based During the year it generated 49 million brand hotel chain in the UK with likeon improvements in awareness, usage and of revenue, which is a 48% increase on for-like occupancy at 80.8%.
Total brand preference amongst both business and 2004 5. occupancy including the former Premier leisure customers.
Lodges was 78.4% with a 3% occupancy improvement to the rebranded Premier We have started the roll out of the new Lodge hotels during the second half of Premier Travel Inn bedroom design with 2005 6.
Revenue per available room approximately half of the estate to be RevPar has grown by 4.8% to 35.95. completed by the end of 2006 7.
PAGE 6 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2005 6 Pub Restaurants: The results of the Pub Restaurants business have been disappointing and therefore, as part of an ongoing review, we have taken the decision going forward to focus on the substantially more successful joint sites with one of our budget hotels.
Pub Restaurants 2005 6 change Encouragingly, in the final quarter in our During the year we opened 17 new Beefeater estate, we have seen the trend Brewers Fayres, nine of which were located Sales 605.0m 1.4% in covers volume start to recover by 2%.
next to a Premier Travel Inn.
We converted Like-for-like This can be attributed primarily to the 16 sites to the new Beefeater format, sales 1.8 % following the impact of the popular thereby increasing the proportion of the 8.95 mid-week two-course menu that estate now in the new format to over 45%.
Operating profit was rolled out in July 2005 and the pre-exceptionals 64.9m 12.1 % In addition we have refurbished a number successful trial menu that was launched Operating profit of Brewers Fayre sites and the early results across 25 sites on the South Coast 16% of post exceptionals 60.7m 22.7 % from these are encouraging.
In Beefeater the new science of service Across both brands we have developed programme roll out was completed, Despite progress being made with a new menus that oer customers greater seeing a reduction in service time of number of initiatives, the long-term choice and value for money.
We expect to launch this in performance decline in Brewers Fayre has o peak meal-deals plus premium items Brewers Fayre over the course of the year.
A new management such as the Beefeater Steak & Lobster, team has been appointed to speed up enabling us to be more competitive whilst the pace of change.
The programme of still giving customers the opportunity to improvement focuses on the key areas of spend more if they wish to.
pricing, food quality, environment In terms of food quality, the new menus and service.
oer a broader choice of dishes and introduce a range of lighter and healthy options such as salads, vegetarian dishes and pasta.
We have also undertaken a respecication exercise of every single menu item to ensure an improvement in food and presentation quality.
OPERATING REVIEW PAGE 7 OPERATING REVIEW David Lloyd Leisure: After a period in which this business had plateaued, the new management team has done a good job in improving performance, delivering an increase in total sales of 2.8%.
David Lloyd Leisure 2005 6 change Total membership in the UK is now at a On the back of recent improved record high with 319,000 2005: 307,000 membership satisfaction, retention has Sales 224.6m 2.8% and 49,300 2005: 40,380 in Continental increased by 0.8% at 72.4% at the year end Like-for-like Europe, giving an overall membership of compared to a fall of 1.0% in the previous sales 0.6 % 368,300 2005: 347,500.
This has been achieved through the we have increased like-for-like membership recent introduction of brand standards Oper Oper Opera a ating ting ting pr pr pro o o t t t by 1,270 members, with an increase across all areas of all clubs, together with pr pree-e ex xceptionals ceptionals 41.3m 16.2 % of 4,700 since December.
This success increased investment in club maintenance Oper Oper Opera a ating ting ting pr pr pro o o t t t has been achieved through the new supported by a robust audit process.
post post e ex xceptionals ceptionals 22.7m 41.6 % management team focus on the priorities The pro t contribution from our of building membership and retention.
Continental European clubs has increased We are particularly encouraged by the A number of initiatives have been to 3.4 million.
This has been largely driven momentum in membership growth introduced across the clubs to grow by our successful new clubs in Amsterdam seen over the past few months.
Since membership, including new sales training and Brussels.
October 2005 we have seen continued and incentive programmes for all sales We will open in Aberdeen in June 2006 improvement in membership levels with team members and refocused marketing and Exeter in early 2007 subject to final growth in new member sales over the last plans.
We have also launched an improved planning consent.
five months of 19.4% and a fall in leavers induction for new members, introduced of 7.2% for like-for-like clubs.
new facilities and improved the range and quality of our food and beverage.
Our new clubs which opened this year in Kings Hill in Kent, Southend and Barcelona have performed well, delivering an additional 13,130 members to the brand.
All of these sites opened with membership levels exceeding targets.
PAGE 8 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2005 6 High Street Restaurants: Costa has had an exceptional year with excellent levels of performance and outlet growth.
High Street Restaurants 2005 6 change We have also undertaken a re-imaging In the UK we are encouraged by the programme to enhance our internal dcor growth in new partnerships and see this Sales 235.1m 7.0% and external signage.
This is proving to be as a rich seam for growing the brand in Like-for-like very successful and has given us a quick the future.
This year these included new sales 0.3 % return on our investment.
business partnerships with Virgin Atlantic, P&O and Esso.
Operating profit As a result of these positive actions, pre-exceptionals 17.3m 3.0% customer satisfaction continues to TGI Fridays has had a difficult year, having Operating profit improve and in the regular large sample been adversely impacted by the consumer post exceptionals 12.7m 18.6 % YouGov study of the coee sector, Costa downturn in discretionary spend.
The is consistently voted the number one management team has progressed their High Street Restaurants includes Costa and coee shop brand, outscoring its main strategy to improve value for money with TGI Fridays only.
The Pizza Hut joint venture competitors on all key customer measures.
a new menu oering lower cost items and is shown with joint ventures in note 16 to enhanced customer service.
2005 6 has been a record year for Costa in terms of expansion.
We opened Over the year we opened three new 146 new stores overall, 94 in the UK and stores in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Fulham Costas total sales have increased by 13.4% 52 internationally.
Whilst still relatively in London and Swansea.
In the first few to 143.0 million and like-for-like systems small with 121 stores, the international weeks of 2006 7 we have opened two new sales in the UK Retail business which business is gaining momentum and scale stores in Poole and Braehead, Glasgow.
includes both equity and franchise stores and in February we opened our 100th were up by 8.9%.
profit for the year was international store in the Middle East up 25.5% to 13.3 million.
We have also launched the During the year we have made significant brand in three new countries during the improvements to the Costa food range course of the year India, Pakistan and and our new cakes and sandwiches, Cyprus.
We see potential for a total of over including lighter low fat items, have proved 1,000 stores by 2010, which is double our Alan Parker popular with customers.
Food capture existing estate and are actively pursuing Chief Executive rate has grown signicantly and we expansion opportunities in new territories.
expect further improvements in the year 24 April 2006 ahead as we introduce new products, such as the recent launch of an Italian ice-cream range.
OPERATING REVIEW PAGE 9 FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW Christopher Rogers With the adoption of IFRS the focus of the Finance Director statements is on continuing operations.
International Financial Reporting Turnover Impairment provisions Standards IFRS Following the disappointing trading Group turnover grew by 9.2% year-onperformance in a number of our brands, year to 1,584.0 million for continuing Whitbread has adopted IFRS in preparing and after a review of each individual cash operations.
This growth was underpinned its Group accounts for 2005 6 and as generating unit, we have made provisions by the full-year benefit of the Premier such the focus of the statements is on against the carrying value of assets, Lodge acquisition in July 2004.
Excluding continuing operations, with full disclosure totalling 35.2 million.
These are focused the year-on-year impact of Premier Lodge, of discontinued operations in note 10 to the on David Lloyd Leisure, a limited number Group turnover grew by 4.7%.
Restated comparisons for the of pub restaurants and Costa stores, along sales were up by 0.4% with the remainder full year ended 3 March 2005 have already with a write-down of systems investment of the turnover growth coming from the been published on the Whitbread website.
reecting the smaller re-shaped Group.
net increase in brand outlets, notably in Accounting policies used in the Premier Travel Inn and Costa.
Reorganisation costs preparation of these accounts are consistent with the policies adopted on In October 2005 we announced a review Results transition, with the exception of IFRS 32 of head ofce costs and structures.
Total profit for the year is 264.4 million and 39, which were eective from The restructuring is taking place over up 57.2% on last year.
profit before tax and 4 March 2005.
12 months and the costs associated with exceptional items from the continuing this in 2005 6 amounted to 10.8 million.
business was 181.1 million, up 13.1% on Further costs approximately 10 million Changes in Group operations last year.
The savings There have been three major changes in arising from this reorganisation will the Groups operating entities compared to Exceptional Items amount to 20 million in 2006 7 rising to the prior period, as set out below.
Net exceptional profits after tax Marriott amounted to 114.3 million.
This amount Debenture redemption On 5 May 2005 Whitbread sold 46 of its is analysed in more detail in note 6 to On 28 February 2006, we completed the Marriott hotels to a joint venture owned the accounts.
redemption of three debentures originally 50% each by Whitbread and subsidiaries The major items included within this acquired with the Swallow Hotels business of Marriott International with the category are noted below.
This resulted in a one-o net cash intention to sell on these assets to third outow after tax relief of 7 million but party property owners.
On the same Business disposals with reduced interest costs in future years.
day, the management of the hotels was The three principal business disposals transferred to a management company during the year have generated profits of Interest wholly owned by Marriott International.
67.0 million Marriott and Chiswell Street Interests in a further eight properties were Underlying interest costs before the Brewery, 140.1 million Britvic and 1.0 retained by Whitbread pending onward redemption costs of debentures note 8 to million Maredo.
the accounts have fallen year-on-year as a joint venture established in May 2005 result of a combination of lower base rates had not completed the onward disposal Details of the financial performance of the and lower debt, along with more focused of the hotel assets by the year-end and discontinued business and the eects of capital investment activities.
the completion of this process, along with the disposal can be found in note 10 to the sale of the remaining hotel properties the accounts.
Taxation retained by Whitbread pending onward Whitbread Restaurants Germany transfer, will arise in 2006 7.
The UK tax expense of 57.0 million The 2005 6 performance includes nine represents an eective rate of 32.8% Impairment revaluation of Marriott hotels weeks of trading prior to the disposal of on the continuing businesses before joint venture assets the German business operating 67 Maredo exceptional items, which compares with The completion of the sale of the Marriott restaurants, whilst 2004 5 contained 32.6% for the full year in 2004 5.
The hotel assets on 21 April 2006 has resulted a full 52 weeks of trading activity.
in a reduction in the carrying value of the Premier Lodge Marriott joint venture assets held for sale The 2005 6 performance includes a full of 29.3 million and this is included in year of trading from the Premier Lodge 2005 6 results.
acquisition completed on 25 July 2004, whilst the prior period only included 32 weeks of trade.
PAGE 10 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2005 6 2005 6 2004 5 m m profit after tax 124.1 105.9 Adjustment 1 6.9 19.4 Adjustment 2 9.3 121.7 125.3 Average number of shares 264.7m 296.5m Proforma EPS 45.99p 42.26p 8.8% Adjustment 1 this allocates interest between continuing and discontinued businesses on the basis of assets.
Adjustment 2 this reverses the benefit of interest earned on the disposal proceeds from the Marriott sale before their return to shareholders.
Earnings per share Pensions Underlying basic earnings per share of the At 2 March 2006 there was a gross pension continuing business increased by 24.7% to fund deficit of 338 million net deficit 46.88p.
Details can be found in note 11 to after deferred tax of 237 million.
deficit has been adversely aected by a combination of a change in assumptions To aid a meaningful year-on-year on life expectancy adopted as part of the comparison earnings per share has been triennial valuation and falls in bond yields.
calculated on a proforma basis, which A package of measures announced in allocates interest between continuing October 2005 includes further injections and discontinued businesses.
On this over the next five years of 190 million basis the growth in basic earnings per after the Companys payment of 100 share of the continuing businesses is million in the current year.
Post Balance Sheet Event Dividend On 9 March 2006 we entered into an A final dividend of 19.95p per share, an agreement to acquire the business and increase of 8.7% over last year, will, subject assets of seven Holiday Inn branded hotels to approval at the AGM, be paid on 7 July for a total consideration of 34.5 million.
2006 to all shareholders on the register The seven hotels are being converted to at the close of business on 5 May 2006.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 27.30p, an increase of 8.1% on last year.
On 21 April 2006 we announced the completion of the Marriott sale process, with the hotel assets held by the joint Capital expenditure venture being acquired by the Royal Bank Total Group capital expenditure on of Scotland.
As a result of this transaction property, plant and equipment and the carrying value of the joint venture intangible assets was 230.2 million.
assets held for sale in the 2005 6 accounts This included 201.0 million relating has been adjusted see note 10 to the to continuing operations, allocated accounts.
The completion of the disposal between acquisition expenditure will be reected in the 2006 7 financial 116.3 million and maintenance statements.
Going concern Financing The directors have a reasonable Net debt at the year-end amounted expectation that the Group has adequate to 970.3 million, compared to resources to continue operating for the 1,348.7 million as restated for IAS 32 foreseeable future.
For this reason, the and 39 as at 3 March 2005.
The principal going concern basis continues to be non-trading movements leading to the adopted in preparing the accounts.
reduction arose from the retention of some 460 million of the proceeds of the sale of Marriott assets and the stake in Britannia Soft Drinks partially oset by an additional pension fund payment of 100 million.
Christopher Rogers Finance Director 24 April 2006 FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW PAGE 11 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Angie Risley Whitbread takes its corporate responsibilities seriously, not only Human Resources Director because the Company believes it has a clear responsibility to do so, but because it also makes sound business sense.
Integrity is a core value at Whitbread.
Healthier lifestyles Energy and waste management team We believe in fairness, teamwork and Whitbread is committed to oering its Our energy and waste team is responsible tolerance of peoples dierences thriving guests a range of healthier food and for improved management, monitoring in an environment of mutual trust and drink options.
Over the past 18 months, and reporting of our gas, electricity and consideration.
Whitbread expects its the Companys food innovation team water usage as well as our waste disposal people to display high standards of has worked closely with our suppliers to and recycling.
Targets have been set in all personal behaviour, treating each other achieve reductions in the salt, sugar and of these areas.
and the Companys property with respect fat content of our best sellers, particularly The team is sharply focused on reducing at all times and dealing fairly with each of in our childrens menus.
Our latest menus wastage, increasing energy efficiency the Companys stakeholders: underline this commitment, with many and, where possible, reducing energy more salad, pasta and sh options to reect our shareholders: consumption and landll waste.
todays changing tastes and lifestyles.
our employees: A key strategy this year has been the our customers: Ensuring accessibility introduction of a new consumption-based our suppliers: accounting system.
The system helped Whitbread has invested over 10 million to drive down energy usage by focusing local communities.
in property development and improvements our management teams on consumption in recent years to take account of legislative Encouraging integrity in all our business rather than cost.
requirements and have the appropriate dealings is essential for creating the accessibility needed for guests and Environmental performance in 2005 6 stimulating working environment which employees with disabilities.
we believe will drive business success.
The Full details of the Companys high standards of behaviour Whitbread environmental performance will be Environment expects from its people are briefed in the available in Whitbreads Environment The environment is an area of importance Code of Business Ethics.
Report which will be published on the to all of Whitbreads stakeholders.
Angie Risley, Group HR Director, is directly Better management of the Companys co. uk in early June 2006. responsible for Corporate Responsibility environmental impact in recent years has at Whitbread.
continuously improved environmental Employees performance and reduced business costs.
At Whitbread there is a clear recognition Marketplace Whitbreads aim is to continue the current of the need to recruit and retain high approach of cost reduction-led initiatives, Whitbread coordinates activities and calibre people for the Company to live up with consequent environmental benets, leverages opportunities across a range to its customer proposition of service and and at the same time increase awareness of issues as they relate to two of the product excellence.
We are committed of environmental issues in the business.
Companys stakeholders our customers to delivering programmes and providing The Company is working to identify and suppliers.
opportunities that help create attractive further opportunities where it can and rewarding places to work, support the Whitbreads approach is to work in close reasonably contribute to the wider communities in which we operate and help partnership with its suppliers to develop environmental agenda.
Whitbread become the Employer of Choice.
products and services that meet the needs of our brands and delight our guests.
Benchmarking our environmental Whitbread employs more than 45,000 Through an established process of supplier performance people, mainly in the UK, and has a self assessment we work collaboratively range of policies covering such issues as We benchmark our performance against to ensure both partners meet their various diversity, employee well-being and equal other companies by participating in the objectives and deliver continuity of supply.
We work closely with a Business In the Community corporate number of organisations which support We focus on food and drink safety through responsibility and environmental indices.
the delivery of these policies and provide an integrated eld to fork or grape to These indices help us to identify how us with the opportunity to recruit from a glass strategy, underpinned by regular we can improve our own performance.
diverse range of talent pools.
In Whitbread is also listed in the FTSE4Good addition, as a signatory to the Portman index and is energy accredited by the Groups Code of Practice, we promote Energy Institute Carbon Trust National sensible drinking policies.
Details of the Energy Foundation.
P PA AG GE E 12 12 Whitbr Whitbread PL ead PLC C Annual R Annual Re eview and Summar view and Summary R y Repor eport t 2005 6 2005 6 Employee involvement Employee well-being Business in the community Whitbread is committed to listening to and Because the well-being of our employees Whitbreads long association with Business involving its employees and believes that is extremely important to us, we provide in the Community has enabled us to open and regular two-way communication all our employees and their immediate develop programmes which not only at all levels is an essential part of the families with access to the Whitbread support the communities in which we management process.
All employees are Employee Assistance Programme.
This operate but also bring together the asked their opinions via a VIEWS survey o ers a round the clock, con dential, corporate and voluntary sector to drive and speci c plans are put in place to counselling service which can provide maximum mutual bene t. Whitbread address feedback from these surveys.
professional advice on any issue from has also participated in the Business in financial and relationship problems in their the Community Corporate Responsibility Nearly 1,500 Whitbread employees were in personal life to work related issues.
Index a key measurement tool in driving a position to bene t from the Companys the Corporate Responsibility agenda in employee share scheme in 2005 6.
Health and safety who joined the scheme which matured in February received a collective pro t of Whitbread recognises the signi cance of Support to volunteering circa 4.5 million.
In November 2005 2,482 e ective health and safety management Whitbread recognises and rewards the employees were granted options over and is committed to providing a safe, tremendous volunteering work our 765,535 shares at 756p under the terms of secure and healthy environment for both employees carry out in their local the Savings-related Share Option Scheme.
Cash awards are given As at 20 April 2006 over 4,300 employees can be evidenced in the following areas: to our employees to provide additional held options over 2.3 million shares under health and safety continues to be one financial support to the charities and that scheme.
of the key measures on the Companys organisations to whom they regularly WINcard, with outlets receiving an commit their time and energy.
Our Focus on training independent audit twice per year: employees hard work and commitment At Whitbread, great emphasis is each brand has a detailed health and not only bene t the organisations placed on improving the skills, expertise safety management plan which is which they support but also provides and performance of employees through reviewed regularly by Executive Teams: an opportunity for them to develop the a continuous programme of training skills and experience they have learned various health and safety related and development.
Our training in the workplace.
workshops are available for management programmes address skills development, level employees to improve their skills and leadership development and management Whitbread has supported the volunteering expertise, whilst we continue to invest in development and are delivered through activity of other young people throughout and enhance our award winning a combination of on-the-job training, the UK via the annual Whitbread Young e-learning training programmes: e-learning and external training providers.
The successful winners numerous safety related policy and The Whitbread Apprenticeships programme across four categories Community, procedures manuals have been revised also provides employees with the Environment, Sport and Arts not only and briefed into the brands including opportunity to develop skills and gain receive a financial reward, but more areas such as security and indoor play: nationally recognised quali cations in importantly, bene t from on-going, hospitality and catering.
dedicated project management support, the Board continues to receive health allowing them to develop their volunteering and safety reports quarterly to enable projects and build on the success they Payroll giving it to monitor and review performance.
Whitbreads payroll-giving scheme has For further information on activities in been operating since 1997 with a current this area please see the Companys participation level in excess of 15% of our website www.
workforce and annual donations set to reach 500,000 this year.
Whitbread was Community rewarded with a Gold Award at the recent launch of the Government funded Payroll Whitbread has a long history of working Giving Quality Mark.
with its community partners and has Angie Risley supported a number of national charities Human Resources Director through its brand partnerships, for example Brewers Fayre supporting Whizz-Kidz and 24 April 2006 TGI Fridays supporting KidsOut.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY P PA AG GE E 13 13 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 The biographical details of the Board of directors are shown below.
3 4 1 Anthony Habgood 2 Alan Parker 5 Rod Kent 6 Charles Gurassa Position: Chairman since August 2005 Chief Executive since June 2004 Position: Senior Independent Director since April 2003.
Also Independent non-executive director Chairman of Whitbread Pension Trustees Limited Appointment to the Board: May 2005 May 2000 Appointment to the Board: September 2002 July 2000 Age: 59 59 Age: 58 50 Committee Membership: Nomination Chairman Nomination Committee Membership: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Chairman External Appointments: Bunzl plc Chairman British Hospitality Association Council member External Appointments: Bradford & Bingley plc Chairman Virgin Mobile Holdings UK plc Chairman SVG Capital plc Senior independent director VisitBritain Director Close Brothers Group plc Chairman elect Worldwide Excellerated Leasing Limited Chairman University of Surrey Visiting Professor Grosvenor Limited Chairman 7 Days Limited Chairman World Travel & Tourism Council Director Grosvenor Group Holdings Non-executive director National Trust Trustee Esme Fairbairn Foundation Trustee Whizzkidz Limited Trustee Airline Consulting Limited Non-executive director Previous Experience: Director of The Boston Consulting Group Inc. from 1977 Managing Director of Crest Hotels Europe, based Previous Experience: Gained extensive investment banking experience Has significant knowledge and experience in the to 1986.
Director and then Chief Executive of Tootal in Frankfurt.
Senior Vice-President of Holiday Inn as Managing Director of Close Brothers Group until travel and tourism industry, having been Chief Group PLC.
Chief Executive and then Chairman of Europe, Middle East and Africa, based in Brussels.
Previously Chairman of the M&G Executive of Thomson Travel Group and a director Bunzl plc.
Also held non-executive directorships at Joined Whitbread in 1992 as Managing Director Group PLC and has held a number of other PLC of TUI AG.
Geest PLC, Powergen plc, Marks and Spencer Group plc of Whitbread Hotel Company.
and National Westminster Bank Plc.
3 Christopher Rogers 4 Angie Risley 7 Margaret Ewing 8 Philip Clarke Position: Finance Director Human Resources Director Position: Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Appointment to the Board: May 2005 May 2004 Appointment to the Board: July 2005 January 2006 Age: 46 47 Age: 51 46 Committee Membership: None None Committee Membership: Audit Chairman, Nomination and Remuneration Remuneration External Appointments: None Member of Low Pay Commission External Appointments: BAA plc Chief Financial officer Tesco PLC Director Previous Experience: Qualied as an accountant with Price Waterhouse Joined Whitbread in 1985 as Human Resources Previous Experience: Trinity Mirror plc Group Finance Director Has seven years Board experience gained at Tesco, before joining Kingsher plc in 1988.
Subsequent Director of Pizza Hut UK.
Roles have included where he has responsibility for the International Deloitte Senior Partner, Transaction Services roles included Group Financial Controller at Human Resources Director of Whitbread Hotel Division 11 countries and Information Brings significant financial expertise to the Company Kingsher plc, Finance Director, and then Company and Whitbread Restaurants.
Philip was previously Group Supply both as a member of the Board and as the Chairman Commercial Director, at Comet Group plc before Chain Director at Tesco.
becoming Finance Director at Woolworths Group plc.
PAGE 14 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2005 6 5 6 7 8 1 Anthony Habgood 2 Alan Parker 5 Rod Kent 6 Charles Gurassa Position: Chairman since August 2005 Chief Executive since June 2004 Position: Senior Independent Director since April 2003.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS PAGE 15 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT Charles Gurassa The full remuneration report is set out on pages 8 to 17 of the Chairman, Remuneration Committee Directors Report and Accounts.
This summary report states Whitbreads remuneration policy and the aggregate directors remuneration for 2005 6.
The full remuneration report will be the subject of a shareholder resolution to be proposed at the AGM.
Introduction Base salary Contents of this Report Whitbreads continued success is Base salaries are reviewed annually dependent on the skills and enthusiasm against a bespoke group of UK leisure, Introduction from Charles Gurassa of the people who work in our businesses.
hotel and retail companies of a similar Remuneration policy This report focuses on directors market prole and against a pan-sectoral remuneration, but the principles which group of companies with a similar Directors service contracts form the basis of the Companys capitalisation and turnover to the business remuneration policy apply to all the for which the director is responsible.
Before Aggregate directors remuneration managers of Whitbreads businesses.
awarding any base salary increase to in 2005 6 directors, careful consideration is given to By ensuring that our employees are trading circumstances across the whole fairly and appropriately incentivised Group and to average salary increases and rewarded we believe that they will for Whitbread employees as a whole.
continue to deliver outstanding service Increases are based on performance to our customers and value to our against personal objectives.
to pay appropriate market rates but the The Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee acknowledges My colleagues and I on the Remuneration comprises: that exibility is required in order to recruit Committee will continue to monitor Charles Gurassa Chairman and retain key executives.
the appropriateness of the Companys remuneration packages, to ensure that Philip Clarke they are t for purpose.
Benets Margaret Ewing Life assurance and private health Remuneration Policy cover are core benets provided to all Rod Kent executives.
Non-core benets, for which The Company policy for directors All of the above individuals are cash alternatives are available, are remuneration for 2006 7 and subsequent independent non-executive directors.
family health cover and a fully expensed financial years is that the overall package company car.
Executives also receive the will be sufciently competitive to Whitbread Privilege Card, in line with all attract, retain and motivate high calibre Whitbread employees, which provides executives.
They will be expected to a 25% discount on Whitbread products.
have the skills, expertise and enthusiasm to achieve the Groups objectives and to enhance shareholder value.
Such Pensions remuneration packages will reect their The final salary section of the Whitbread personal contribution and the Companys Historical TSR Performance Group Pension Fund was closed to overall success.
The Committee recognises new entrants, including directors, on Growth in the value of a hypothetical the importance of having a significant 31 December 2001.
All new recruits after 100 holding over five years between proportion of an executives remuneration that date are oered participation in the March 2001 and March 2006 compared being linked to performance.
Further, in dened contribution section of the scheme.
to the FTSE Leisure and Hotels sector order to promote retention and sustained based on 30 trading day average values.
For executive directors, the policy is to pay corporate performance, the balance a Company contribution of 25% of salary.
between short-term and long-term After each of five and ten years service rewards is important.
250 these contributions will be increased by The remuneration of executive directors a further 2.5% of salary.
200 comprises the following elements: In response to the tax reforms to pension 150 base salary: provision in April 2006, the Remuneration Committee reviewed its policy on future benets: 100 pension provision, with a view to ensuring pension: and that there will be appropriate choices 50 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 for our executives going forward at no Whitbread Leadership Group Whitbread FTSE Leisure and Hotels sector additional cost to the Company.
Details of each of these elements follow.
PAGE 16 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2005 6 Value of hypothetical 100 holding The principles that we used for this The cash supplements were calculated by The Whitbread Leadership Group Incentive review were: an independent actuary and consisted of: Scheme applies to over 50 executives.
The levels of rewards are graduated the Company will not be meeting any i annual cash supplements equivalent to re ect levels of responsibility.
increased tax burden of the executive to those available to a new executive directors arising as result of the reforms: under the Companys current pension Structure arrangements plus, where necessary: Three types of awards can be made no advance payments have been under the scheme following the end made to pension funds prior to the ii an additional xed amount payable of the financial year, all of which are introduction of the reforms: at retirement or annual amounts, if performance related.
These are: the executive prefers, payable on a a limited number of choices were o ered money purchase basis into the pension a cash bonus that is immediately to all executives: scheme, calculated to re ect the actual payable: cost of the bene ts before the change.
the changes save costs for Whitbread: an award over Whitbread shares known The cash supplements will be reduced to Whitbread has mitigated its balance as d d d fide e e ef f f fe e e er r r rr r r re e e ed d d d e e e eq q q qu u u ui i i it t t ty y y y, w wh hi ic ch h w wi il ll l n no or rm ma al ll ly y re ect the Companys expected national sheet risk on existing pension obligations vest three years later provided that the insurance liability.
and limited its exposure on any future executive remains employed by the commitments.
Whitbread Group: The assumptions adopted will lead to lower pension costs for the Company in Executives were o ered the opportunity to an award over Whitbread shares under future.
leave the pension scheme and receive cash the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, supplements instead of pension.
The value which will under normal circumstances Details of the cash supplements for each of the cash alternative depends on when vest three years after the date of grant executive director are provided on page 12 the executive joined the scheme.
provided that the individual remains an of the Directors Report and Accounts.
employee and a TSR performance target joiners after 31 December 2001 can As a result of the above changes, described in more detail below choose to leave the money purchase Alan Parker opted out of the pension is satis ed.
section of the scheme and receive a scheme on 31 May 2005 and retained an monthly cash payment equal to the Levels of award accrued pension of 115,390 per annum in contribution less an amount equal The normal levels of cash bonus, deferred respect of service to that date.
Christopher to the employers national insurance equity and LTIP awards payable under the Rogers and Angie Risley opted out of the payable on this amount: Plan to executive directors at di erent pension scheme for future bene t accrual levels of performance are: on 31 March 2006. executives who joined after 1989 but before 31 December 2001 can choose to Below Nil Nil opt out of the final salary section of the Whitbread Leadership Group threshold scheme and receive cash payments Incentive Scheme see below in lieu of future pension 10% 10% cash cash The Whitbread Leadership Group Incentive accrual both for future and past Threshold 20% 20% def deferr erred ed equity equity Scheme was implemented during 2004 5. pensionable service: 25% 25% L LT TI IP P aw awar ard d The policy objectives of this scheme are: 22.5% 22.5% cash cash executives who joined before 1989 On target 50% 50% def deferr erred ed equity equity can choose to opt out of the scheme to provide a clear link between 62.5% 62.5% L LT TI IP P aw awar ard d for future pensionable service, but performance and reward, in order to remain in the scheme in respect of past motivate key executives: 55% 55% cash cash pensionable service.
For this reason, 100% 100% def deferr erred ed equity equity Stretch to place a greater emphasis on equity the equivalent cash payments for this 125% 125% L LT TI IP P aw awar ard d rewards promoting alignment with category are less than that for joiners shareholders interests: the bonus amounts shown are the after 1989. maximum amounts, even where the to promote retention by deferring a performance exceeds stretch.
signi cant part of the rewards.
The percentages in the table are expressed as a percentage of the base salaries.
A straight-line will operate between the above levels of performance.
SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT PAGE 17 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT Threshold will be the minimum target at For LTIP awards, the Remuneration LTIP grant to Finance Director which rewards will be earned.
Targeted Committee agreed to use a relative TSR to As a recent joiner, and given the low level of performance will be consistent determine pay-out levels because it closely level of equity incentives he holds, the with budgeted performance, and stretch aligns the interests of executives to those Remuneration Committee have awarded will be signicantly beyond budget.
an LTIP grant to Christopher Rogers to ensure that he is appropriately incentivised In addition, a maximum of 20% of salary The comparator group comprises to deliver excellent shareholder value.
cash bonus will be payable for meeting constituents of the Hotels, Restaurants & The vesting of this award will be subject WINcard targets see page 5 of the Annual Bars and Recreational Services sub-sectors to a three year total shareholder return Review with the measures being like-forof the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Sector performance condition consistent with the like sales growth, profit growth, brand Index, with a market capitalisation of over policy described above.
This is regarded as the most employee retention and health and safety.
appropriate group given the business mix Directors emoluments for 2005 6 These targets apply to all management and strategy of the Company.
Performance throughout the Company, as well as the will be measured over three financial years The directors aggregate emoluments executive directors.
The targets are set at following the financial year for which the for 2005 6 were 2,674,018 and the the beginning of each financial year and, award is made.
Averaging will take place aggregate amount of gains made for directors, reviewed and approved by over a three month period before the start by directors on the exercise of share the Remuneration Committee after the and end of the performance period to options during the year was 500,629. year-end.
reduce the impact of short-term share The aggregate market value of awards price uctuations.
exercised by directors under long term Performance conditions incentive schemes during the year was The vesting schedule for any grants made The 2006 7 performance condition for the 357,384 and the aggregate amount after June 2004 is: annual cash bonus and deferred equity of contributions paid by the Company payable under the Leadership Group to money purchase pension schemes Position at which Incentive Scheme is profit before tax.
In in respect of the directors was 29,040. the Company is Vesting schedule addition, each brand as well as the Group During the year, two of the current ranked has a ROCE target to achieve.
Failure to directors accrued benets under the Upper quartile achieve this target would result in a 25% dened benefit pension scheme and one Full vesting and above reduction in any annual cash bonus and current director accrued benets under deferred equity payable under the Scheme.
the money purchase pension scheme.
Pro rata on a Between median straight-line Each year the Board sets a series of profit and upper between quarter Directors service contracts targets for the Group and for each brand quartile and full vesting within the Group.
The profit targets are set The Remuneration Committees policy is according to the commercial strategy of Median Quarter vests that all executive directors should have the Company at the start of the financial rolling contracts of employment with Below median None year under review.
At the end of the financial year, the For the LTIP awards that were due to Stewart Miller stepped down from the profit results are calculated and the vest on 1 March 2006, i. e. those awards Board on 30 September 2005.
Stewart Remuneration Committee assesses each granted in 2003, the performance received payments based on 12 months director against the pre-determined targets.
The comparator salary, benets and pension entitlement.
The value of the rewards is calculated and group comprised 22 comparators at the independently veried for the Committee time of measurement and Whitbread was by New Bridge Street Consultants LLP.
ranked thirteenth, which is below median.
In the two previous years the Company was ranked in the upper quartile and the LTIP awards vested in full.
Charles Gurassa Chairman, Remuneration Committee 24 April 2006 PAGE 18 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2005 6 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT The full directors report and full corporate governance report are set out in the Directors Report and Accounts 2005 6, which can be found on the Companys website or obtained by writing to the Companys registrar at the address shown on page 25.
Principal activities and review of stand for election and Alan Parker and & Young LLP, continue to be objective and Angie Risley will stand for re-election at the independent of the Company.
In coming to the business forthcoming AGM in accordance with this conclusion the Audit Committee gave A detailed review of the Companys the Companys Articles of Association.
full consideration to the non-audit work activities, the development of its carried out by Ernst & Young LLP.
businesses, and an indication of likely Details of directors service contracts future developments are given on are given in the remuneration report The Audit Committee has considered what pages 3 to 9. on page 11 of the Directors Report and work should not be carried out by the Accounts.
None of the non-executive external auditors and have concluded that Results and dividends directors has a service contract.
certain services including internal audit, acquisition due diligence and IT consulting Group profit before tax services will not be carried out by Ernst & Corporate Governance and exceptional items Young LLP.
from continuing operations 181.1m The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and Annual General Meeting Group profit before tax complied throughout the year with the and after exceptional items The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on provisions set out in Section 1 of the from continuing operations 101.9m 20 June 2006 at The Queen Elizabeth Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Full details can be found on pages 3 to 7 Interim dividend paid 7.35p Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The of the Directors Report and Accounts.
on 3 January 2006 per share notice of meeting is enclosed with this report and is accompanied by a letter Recommended 19.95p Share capital from the Chairman.
final dividend per share At the start of the year, the authorised By order of the Board share capital was 315 million divided into Total dividend 27.30p 630 million ordinary shares of 50p each.
Simon Barratt for the year per share At an Extraordinary General Meeting Company Secretary on 22 April 2005, shareholders approved a Subject to approval at the Annual 24 April 2006 share consolidation.
As a result, with eect General Meeting, the final dividend will from 16 May 2005, the authorised share Registered ofce: be payable on 7 July 2006 to shareholders capital changed to 315 million divided Whitbread House, Park Street West, on the register at the close of business 1 into 540 million shares of 58 3p each.
Details of the issued share capital can be found in note 29 to the accounts.
4120344 Board of directors Purchase of own shares The directors at the end of the financial year are listed on pages 14 and 15.
The Company is authorised to purchase, Anthony Habgood and Christopher Rogers in the market, the Companys own were appointed to the Board on 1 May shares.
Details of purchases made during 2005, Margaret Ewing was appointed on the year can be found in note 32 to the 1 July 2005 and Philip Clarke on 1 January accounts.
Approval to renew this authority 2006.
Alan Parker, Angie Risley, Rod Kent for a further year will be sought from and Charles Gurassa all served throughout shareholders at the 2006 AGM.
David Richardson retired from the Company and as a director on Auditors 30 April 2005.
Prue Leith and Lord Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their Williamson stepped down from the Board willingness to continue in ofce as following the AGM on 14 June 2005 and auditors of the Company and a resolution Sir John Banham retired on 1 August 2005. proposing their re-appointment will be put Stewart Miller and David Turner stepped to shareholders at the AGM.
After proper down from the Board on 30 September consideration, the Audit Committee is 2005 and 2 March 2006 respectively.
satisfied that the Companys auditors, Ernst Margaret Ewing and Philip Clarke will PAGE 19 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS OF WHITBREAD PLC 2 MARCH 2006 We have examined the Groups summary financial statement for the year ended 2 March 2006 which comprises the summary consolidated profit and loss account, the summary consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the summary consolidated cash ow statement, and the summary consolidated balance sheet.
This report is made solely to the Basis of opinion Companys members, as a body, in We conducted our examination in accordance with Section 251 of the accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 Companies Act 1985.
To the fullest The auditors statement on the extent required by the law, we do not summary financial statement issued accept or assume responsibility to by the Auditing Practices Board for use anyone other than the Company and in the United Kingdom.
the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the Opinion opinions we have formed.
In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the full Respective responsibilities of annual accounts, the Directors Report directors and auditors and the Directors Remuneration Report The directors are responsible for of Whitbread PLC for the year ended preparing the Summary Report in 2 March 2006 and complies with the accordance with applicable law.
applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and Our responsibility is to report to you regulations made thereunder.
our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the Summary Report with the full Ernst & Young LLP annual accounts, the Directors Report Registered Auditor and the Directors Remuneration London Report, and its compliance with the 24 April 2006 relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also The Auditors have issued an unqualied read the other information contained in report on the annual financial the Summary Report and consider the statements containing no statement implications for our report if we become under Section 237 2 or Section 237 3 aware of any apparent misstatements of the Companies Act 1985. or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
PAGE 20 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2005 6 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 2 MARCH 2006 Year to 2 March 2006 Year to 3 March 2005 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 1,584.0 1,584.0 1,450.5 1,450.5 Cost of sales 295.7 295.7 288.8 288.8 Gross pro t 1,288.3 1,288.3 1,161.7 1,161.7 Distribution costs 898.1 21.0 919.1 807.7 8.1 815.8 Administrative expenses 153.5 23.9 177.4 132.7 6.5 139.2 Operating pro t 236.7 44.9 191.8 221.3 14.6 206.7 Share of pro t from joint ventures 6.3 6.3 11.5 11.5 Share of pro t from associates 0.9 0.9 0.1 0.1 Operating pro t of the Group, joint ventures and associates 243.9 44.9 199.0 232.7 14.6 218.1 Non-operating items : Net loss on disposal of businesses and investments 8.8 8.8 2.3 2.3 Pro t before nancing and tax 243.9 53.7 190.2 232.7 16.9 215.8 Finance costs 64.0 25.5 89.5 74.6 74.6 Finance revenue 1.2 1.2 2.0 2.0 Pro t before tax 181.1 79.2 101.9 160.1 16.9 143.2 Tax expense 57.0 12.8 44.2 48.5 4.4 44.1 Net pro t from continuing activities 124.1 66.4 57.7 111.6 12.5 99.1 Discontinued operations: Net pro t on disposal of businesses 208.1 208.1 Pro t for the year from discontinued operations 26.0 27.4 1.4 67.4 1.7 69.1 26.0 180.7 206.7 67.4 1.7 69.1 Pro t for the year 150.1 114.3 264.4 179.0 10.8 168.2 Attributable to: Parent shareholders 150.0 114.3 264.3 178.7 10.8 167.9 Equity minority interest 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Non-equity minority interest 0.2 0.2 150.1 114.3 264.4 179.0 10.8 168.2 Dividends proposed per share in respect of the period pence Special 135.00 Interim 7.35 6.90 Final 19.95 18.35 Continuing Total Continuing Total Earnings per share pence operations operations operations operations basic for pro t for the period 21.80 99.85 33.36 56.63 # basic for underlying pro t 46.88 56.67 37.58 60.28 diluted for pro t for the period 21.62 99.03 33.11 56.21 # diluted for underlying pro t 46.49 56.20 37.29 59.83 Non-operating items are those that are not part of the regular operations of the Group.
# Underlying pro t is reported on net pro t from continuing activities before exceptional items, these being impairment of property, plant and equipment, impairment of goodwill, impairment of intangibles, reorganisation costs, net pro t on disposal of property, plant and equipment, net pro t on disposal of businesses and investments and interest charge on early redemption of debentures.
PAGE 21 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE YEAR ENDED 2 MARCH 2006 Year to Year to 2 March 3 March 2006 2005 m m Cash ow and net investment hedges: Gains taken to equity 0.3 Exchange dierences on translation of foreign operations 1.4 0.3 Actuarial gains losses on dened benefit pension schemes 93.5 25.6 Tax on items taken directly to or from equity 28.6 6.6 Net gain loss recognised directly in equity 63.8 19.3 profit for the period 264.4 168.2 Total recognised income and expense for the period 200.6 187.5 Attributable to: Parent shareholders 200.5 187.2 Equity minority interest 0.1 0.1 Non-equity minority interest 0.2 200.6 187.5 Eect of changes in accounting policy on the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense: Equity holders of the parent: Net loss on cash ow hedges on first time adoption of IAS 39 3.2 PAGE 22 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2005 6 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 2 MARCH 2006 2 March 3 March 2006 2005 m m ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 79.0 193.3 Property, plant and equipment 2,677.1 2,604.0 Investment in joint ventures 35.2 43.1 Investment in associates 0.8 45.6 Other financial assets 5.4 11.3 Derivative financial instruments 78.5 2,876.0 2,897.3 Current assets Inventories 17.5 23.0 Trade and other receivables 119.0 147.9 Income tax prepayment 21.0 Derivative financial instruments 10.2 Cash and cash equivalents 49.6 53.5 217.3 224.4 Assets classied as held for sale 302.6 992.3 TOTAL ASSETS 3,395.9 4,114.0 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Financial liabilities 145.1 98.2 Provisions 0.6 3.9 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 Trade and other payables 277.8 341.9 Income tax payable 16.9 423.8 460.9 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities 874.8 1,219.0 Minority owned preference shares 3.1 Provisions 32.5 25.6 Derivative financial instruments 3.0 Deferred income tax liabilities 174.2 246.4 Pension liability 338.0 346.0 1,425.6 1,837.0 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,849.4 2,297.9 NET ASSETS 1,546.5 1,816.1 EQUITY Issued capital 151.1 149.6 Share premium 36.1 23.2 Retained earnings 3,193.0 3,476.2 Currency translation 1.7 0.3 Other reserves 1,838.2 1,839.0 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,543.7 1,810.3 Equity minority interest 2.8 2.7 Non-equity minority interest 3.1 TOTAL EQUITY 1,546.5 1,816.1 Alan Parker Chief Executive Christopher Rogers Finance Director 24 April 2006 PAGE 23 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT YEAR ENDED 2 MARCH 2006 Year to Year to 2 March 3 March 2006 2005 m m profit for the year 264.4 168.2 Adjustments for: Taxation charged on total operations 39.2 54.6 Net finance cost 89.0 74.1 Total income from joint ventures 6.3 11.5 Total income from associates 10.3 11.0 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3.0 22.8 Net profit on disposal of businesses and investments 191.7 Impairment loss on revaluation on Condor joint venture 29.3 Depreciation and amortisation 118.8 133.6 Impairment of property and goodwill 35.2 31.5 Reorganisation costs 13.3 Other non-cash items 2.8 9.8 Operating profit before working capital changes 380.7 426.5 Decrease in inventories 2.3 1.9 Increase in trade and other receivables 18.3 21.1 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 10.3 34.1 Payments against provisions 16.6 1.4 Payment to pension fund 103.0 Cash generated from operations 234.8 440.0 Interest paid 91.5 71.8 Taxes paid 40.7 48.8 Net cash ows from operating activities 102.6 319.4 Cash ows from investing activities Disposal of investments and subsidiaries discontinued 889.2 Disposal of investments continuing 6.9 Net cash disposed of 18.2 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 228.6 251.5 Purchase of investments and loans advanced 8.6 Purchase of intangible assets 1.6 9.4 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 12.0 64.8 Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 0.2 553.8 Dividends from joint venture 11.1 10.8 Dividends from associates 71.6 12.3 Interest received 1.5 1.4 Net cash ows from used in investing activities 743.7 734.0 Cash ows from nancing activities Proceeds from issue of share capital 14.4 10.6 Costs of purchasing own shares 9.5 Increase decrease in short-term borrowings 6.1 8.7 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 610.0 513.4 Issue costs of long-term borrowings 1.4 Repayment of long-term borrowings 1,013.0 29.7 Equity dividends paid 475.5 68.2 Dividends paid to minority interests 0.2 Net cash ows from used in nancing activities 868.9 417.2 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 22.6 2.6 Net foreign exchange dierence 0.6 0.4 Opening cash and cash equivalents 52.1 49.1 Closing cash and cash equivalents 30.1 52.1 Reconciliation to cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet: Cash and cash equivalents shown above 30.1 52.1 Add back overdrafts 19.5 1.4 Cash and cash equivalents shown within current assets on the balance sheet 49.6 53.5 including disposed of net overdraft P PA AG GE E 24 24 Whitbr Whitbread PL ead PLC C Annual R Annual Re eview and Summar view and Summary R y Repor eport t 2005 6 2005 6 Designed and produced by Dragon.
Portrait photography by Andy Wilson and David Townend.
SHAREHOLDER SERVICES For further information about the Company and its businesses please visit the Whitbread website at www.
co. uk For the purposes of calculating UK tax Registrar Dividend payment by BACS on chargeable gains which may arise on Computershare Investor Services PLC, We can pay your dividends direct to your a disposal of shares in the Company, PO Box 82 bank or building society account using subsequent alterations to the Companys The Pavilions the Bankers Automated Clearing Service capital should be taken into account.
This means that your dividend will particular, the special dividend and share Bristol BS99 7NH be in your account on the same day we capital consolidation eected in May 2005 make the payment.
Your tax voucher will The website address is should be considered in accordance with be posted to your home address.
the information provided in the related would like to use this method of payment shareholder circular.
please ring the registrars on 0870 703 0103.
For enquiries regarding your shareholding please telephone 0870 703 0103, or email Unsolicited mail Sharegift web.
We are aware that some other companies If you have a small number of Whitbread You can also view up to date information shareholders have had occasion PLC shares, with a value that makes about your holdings by visiting to complain of the use, by outside it uneconomical to sell them, you may www.
organisations, of information obtained donate the shares to charity through from those companies share registers.
the Sharegift scheme operated by the Please ensure that you advise Whitbread, like other companies, cannot Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
Further Computershare promptly of any change by law refuse to supply such information information on Sharegift can be obtained of address.
provided that the organisation concerned from their website www.
org pays the appropriate statutory fee.
Electronic shareholder communications If you are a resident in the UK and wish to stop receiving unsolicited mail then you Capital gains tax Shareholders wishing to receive should register with the Mailing Preference the Annual Review and Summary Report Market values of shares in the Company Service, telephone: 020 7291 3310 or you and or the Directors Report and Accounts as at 31 March 1982 were as follows: may prefer to write to: in electronic rather than paper form A limited voting shares of 25p each 103.75p should register their instruction at The Mailing Preference Service www.
co. uk in the investors B limited shares of 25p each 103.75p Freepost 22, London W1E 7EZ private shareholders section.
Whitbread has had discussions with the Company Secretary and Inland Revenue concerning the capital Dividend reinvestment plan Registered Ofce gains tax cost of Whitbread shares Full details of the plan, which oers Simon Barratt following the reduction of capital on 10 you the chance to reinvest your cash May 2001.
It is confirmed that the market dividend in the purchase of additional Whitbread PLC value of each Whitbread share on 10 May Company shares, are available from the Whitbread House, Park Street West, 2001 for these purposes was 606.5p and registrars at the address given above or Luton, Bedfordshire LU1 3BG the market value of each Fairbar share on www.
co. uk in the investors was 230p.
Shareholder enquiries: 0870 703 0103 private shareholders section.
Share dealing services Organisation Telephone Address Online Computershare 0870 703 0084 Computershare Investor Services www.
co. uk Investor Services PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH NatWest 0870 600 2050 NatWest Stockbrokers www.
co. uk Stockbrokers PO Box 549, Leeds LS1 4WN Stocktrade 0845 840 1533 Stocktrade www.
co. uk quote ref: Low Co0101 81 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3EZ whitbread index.
html These details have been provided for information only and any action you take is at your own risk.
If you are in any doubt about what action to take, please consult your own financial adviser.
Should you not wish to use these services you could nd a broker in your local area, on the internet or enquire about share dealing at any high street bank or building society.
The availability of these services should not be taken as a recommendation to deal.
Financial diary 2006 7 dates subject to conrmation 25 April Results announcement 24 October Announcement of half year results 3 May Ex dividend date for final dividend 1 November Ex dividend date for interim dividend 5 May Record date for final dividend 3 November Record date for interim dividend 20 June AGM at Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre 2 January 2007 Payment of interim dividend 7 July Payment of final dividend 1 March 2007 End of financial year 31 August Half year end PAGE 25 Whitbread PLC Whitbread House, Park Street West, Luton, Bedfordshire LU1 3BG www.
