Principal accounting policies Group continued Financial instruments continued Derivative financial instruments Equity share receivables Swaps The Group has entered into agreements whereby it retains a The Group has entered into derivative transactions in the form fixed proportion of the equity in a newly constructed residential of swap arrangements to manage the interest rate and currency property until the date of first resale of the property or ten years risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of from the date of the agreement, whichever is the earlier, when finance.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the it will receive a fixed proportion of the market value of the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors as detailed property.
These agreements are deemed to be derivatives, and in note 18 to the financial statements.
as such are initially measured at fair value on the date the agreement is entered into and subsequently re-measured at fair The swap arrangements are designated as a hedge against value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement is taken to the changes in future cash flows as a result of currency movements.
The fair value of the equity share Gains and losses on the fair value of these swap arrangements agreements is based upon the market value of the property are taken to reserves until realised.
On realisation such gains estimated on a national basis using national property price and losses are recognised in the income statement.
reports discounted for the expected time to redemption.
Critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty In accordance with the requirements of International Financial Key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Reporting Standards the Group has detailed below the critical Estimation of costs to complete accounting judgments made in, and the key sources of In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to estimation uncertainty within these financial statements.
recognise on its developments in a specific period, the Group has to allocate the total shared costs of the development Critical accounting judgments between the proportion completing in the period and the In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, proportion to complete in a future period.
The assessment of the which are described in the accounting policies note, total costs to be incurred on a development requires a degree of management have made no individual judgments that have a estimation.
However, Group management have established significant impact upon the financial statements, apart from internal controls to review and ensure the appropriateness of those involving estimations, which are dealt with below.
Impairment of goodwill Key sources of estimation uncertainty The determination of the value of the impairment of goodwill The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date are units to which goodwill has been allocated as defined in note 9. discussed below.
The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected from these cash generating units including Recognition of profit where developments are accounted for the anticipated growth rate of revenue and costs and requires the under IAS11 Construction Contracts determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the present The Group applies its policy on contract accounting when value of the cash flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the recognising revenue and profit on partially completed balance sheet date was 5.3m after an impairment of 3.5m was contracts.
The application of this policy requires judgments to recognised during 2006.
Details of the impairment loss be made in respect of the total expected costs to complete each calculation are included in note 9. relevant contract.
The Group has in place established internal control processes to ensure that the evaluation of costs and revenues are based upon appropriate estimates.
Carrying value of land and work in progress The Groups principal activity is housebuilding and property development.
Due to the nature of this activity much of the development entered into by the Group is speculative in nature.
Accordingly, the Group has in its balance sheet at 31st December 2006 current assets that are not covered by a forward sale.
The Groups internal controls are designed to identify any developments where the carrying value of stock and work in progress is less than the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 46
