Principal accounting policies Group The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Pensions International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension financial statements have also been prepared in accordance schemes for certain employees.
The Groups contributions to with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the schemes are charged against profits in the year in which the comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
Basis of accounting Goodwill The financial statements have been prepared on the historical Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the instruments and share-based payments.
separable identifiable net assets acquired.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses is capitalised as an asset and reviewed for Basis of consolidation impairment at least annually.
The Groups financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to The results of any subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in each of the cash-generating units determined on acquisition.
the Group income statement up to, or from, the date control Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are passes.
Intra-group sales and profits are eliminated fully on tested for impairment at least annually.
The year ends for all the Companys amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying undertakings are 31st December and all subsidiary amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to undertakings are included in the Groups consolidated financial reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the statements.
unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any On acquisition of a subsidiary, all of the subsidiarys impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is identifiable assets and liabilities existing at the date of not subsequently reversed.
acquisition are recorded at their fair values reflecting their conditions at that date.
All changes to those assets and Goodwill arising prior to 1998 and previously written off liabilities, and the resulting gains and losses that arise after the against reserves as a matter of accounting policy under UK Group has gained control of the subsidiary are charged to the GAAP has not been reinstated and is not included in post-acquisition income statement.
determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Jointly controlled operations Contract accounting The Group enters into jointly controlled operations as part of its Revenue is only recognised on a construction contract where housebuilding and property development activities.
The the outcome can be estimated reliably.
Revenue and costs are Groups share of profits and losses from its investments in such recognised by reference to the stage of completion of contract jointly controlled operations are accounted for on a direct basis activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by and are included in the consolidated income statement.
The surveys of work performed to date.
Groups share of its investments assets and liabilities is accounted for on a directly proportional basis in the Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in debtors and consolidated balance sheet.
stated at cost plus attributable profit less any foreseeable losses.
Payments received on account of contracts are deducted from Jointly controlled entities amounts recoverable on contracts.
Payments received in excess A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds of amounts recoverable are included in trade payables.
an interest with one or more other parties where a contractual arrangement has established joint control over the entity.
Inventories Jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity Inventories, including land held for development and method of accounting.
completed and part-exchanged properties, and residential work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable Revenue value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or direct labour costs and those overheads incurred in bringing the receivable for goods and services supplied to customers during inventories to their present location and condition.
the year and the appropriate proportion of revenue from construction contracts, which is covered by a distinct Work in progress on construction contracts is valued at the accounting policy.
Intra-group transactions, value added tax lower of cost and net realisable value less progress payments and proceeds from the sales of part exchange houses and received and receivable.
undeveloped residential land are excluded from revenue.
Government grants Revenue from the sale of newly constructed residential Government grants are recognised in the income statement so properties is recognised as the consideration received or as to match with related costs that they are intended to receivable on legal completion.
Grants related to assets are deducted from the carrying amount of the asset.
Grants related to income are Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the deducted from the related expense in the income statement.
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 44 Principal accounting policies Group continued Property, plant and equipment Deferred tax continued Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is provided on statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited the original cost of assets in equal annual instalments at the directly to reserves, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt following rates: with in reserves.
Freehold buildings 2% Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a Plant, equipment and vehicles 10% to 25% legally enforceable right to set-off current tax assets against Computers, scaffolding and other current tax liabilities and when they relate to taxes levied by the assets with short economic lives 20% to 50% same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the Share-based payments carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to statement.
certain employees and has applied the requirements of IFRS2 Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional Leases as lessee provisions, IFRS2 has been applied to all grants of equity Leases are classified as operating leases when the terms of the instruments after 7th November 2002 that had not vested as at lease do not substantially transfer all the risks and rewards of 1st January 2005. ownership to the lessee.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value The annual rentals of operating leases are charged to trading at the date of grant.
Fair value is measured either using Blackprofits on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Scholes models or Monte Carlo models dependent upon the characteristics of the scheme.
The expected lives used in the Leases as lessor models are adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for The Group enters into leasing arrangements with third parties the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and following the completion of constructed developments until the behavioural considerations.
The fair value is expensed on a date of the sale of the development to third parties.
Rental straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
basis over the term of the lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the Financial instruments carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the line basis over the lease term.
Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Tax The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable Trade receivables and deferred tax.
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for Current tax estimated irrecoverable amounts.
The tax currently payable is based on the profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income Cash and cash equivalents statement because it excludes items of income or expense that Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand are tax deductible in other years and it further excludes items deposits, and other short term highly liquid investments that are that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for readily converted to a known amount of cash and are subject to current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted an insignificant risk of changes in value.
or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Trade payables and other payables Deferred tax Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on extended terms differences between the carrying amounts of assets and are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax asset to which they relate.
The discount to nominal value is bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is amortised over the period of the credit term and charged to accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to Bank borrowings the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be Interest bearing bank loans are recorded at amortised cost, available against which deductible temporary differences can being the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial Where bank agreements include a legal right of offset for in recognition other than in a business combination of other hand and overdraft balances, and the Group intend to net settle assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax the outstanding position, the offset arrangements are applied to profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Borrowing costs are included in the income statement in the balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer period to which they relate.
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 45
