Principal accounting policies - Company Basis of accounting Financial instruments The separate financial statements of the Company consisting of Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the the Balance Sheet, Principal Accounting Policies, notes C1 to Companys balance sheet when the Company becomes a party C18 and note 22 of the Group financial statements are to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for Bank borrowings the revaluation of certain financial instruments and share-based Interest bearing bank loans are recorded at amortised cost, payments, and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom being the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Where bank agreements include a legal right of offset for in The more important Company accounting policies, which have hand and overdraft balances, and the Company intend to net been applied consistently, are set out below.
settle the outstanding position, the offset arrangements are applied to record the net position.
Differences in accounting policy between the Company and the consolidated financial statements Borrowing costs are recorded in the period to which they relate.
The individual Company financial statements of Wilson Bowden plc are prepared in accordance with applicable Derivative financial instruments Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom whereas the The Company has entered into derivative transactions in the consolidated financial statements of the Wilson Bowden plc form of swap arrangements to manage the interest rate and Group have been prepared in accordance with International currency risks arising from the Companys operations and its Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed by the European sources of finance.
The use of financial derivatives is governed Union.
As such, due to the different Accounting Standards by the Companys policies approved by the Board of Directors.
applied, there are differences in the accounting polices between the parent Company and the Group.
These differences The swap arrangements are designated as a hedge against primarily relate to the treatment of tax, and the policies applied changes in future cash flows as a result of currency movements.
in the Company are detailed below.
Gains and losses on the fair value of these swap arrangements are taken to reserves until realised.
On realisation such gains Investments and losses are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Investments held as fixed or current assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
Share-based payments The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to Pensions certain employees and has applied the requirements of FRS20 The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension Share-based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional schemes for certain employees.
The Companys contributions provisions, FRS20 has been applied to all grants of equity to the schemes are charged against profits in the year in which instruments after 7th November 2002 that had not vested as at the contributions are made.
Deferred tax Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight line transaction or events that gave rise to an obligation to pay more basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have of shares that will eventually vest.
occurred by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 71
