Shareholder information Annual report Copies can be obtained from the Companys address below.
Share Registrar Lloyds TSB The Companys Registrar is Lloyds TSB Registrars.
If you have any questions about your holding or wish to notify any change in your details, please contact the Registrar at: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Whenever you contact the Registrar, please quote the full names in which your shares are held.
Please advise the Registrar promptly of any change of address.
Dividend mandates If you wish all further dividends to be paid directly into your bank or building society account, you should contact the Registrar for a dividend mandate form or complete the instructions attached to your dividend payment.
Share dealing service Wincanton shares may be dealt through the Companys brokers.
If you would like further information, you may contact the brokers at: Postal Dealing Service, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA.
Please note that to comply with legislation aimed at the control of money laundering, users of this service will be required to provide details of their identity.
Share price quotation The Companys share price is quoted daily in national and regional newspapers as well as on BBC2 Ceefax, Channel 4 Teletext and via the Wincanton website, where it is regularly updated through the day.
Shareholders enquiries If you have an enquiry about the Companys business or about something affecting you as a shareholder, other than queries regarding shareholdings which are dealt with by Lloyds TSB Registrars, you are invited to contact the Company at the address below.
Unsolicited mail The Company is obliged to make its Register available to other organisations.
Shareholders wishing to limit the amount of unsolicited mail they may receive as a result should write to the Mailing Preference Service at DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London, SW1W 8SS, or online at ww.
ShareGift If you hold only a few shares and feel that it would be uneconomical or simply not worthwhile to sell them, you could consider donating your shares to the charity ShareGift registered charity 1052686.
Donated shares are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed on to a wide range of UK charities.
Donating shares to charity gives rise to neither a gain nor loss for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes and UK taxpayers may also be able to claim income relief on such gifts of shares.
To find out more visit www.
Alternatively contact the Companys Registrar who can help arrange the transfer of your shares.
Electronic communications As an alternative to receiving future Annual reports through the post, you can choose to receive an email notifying you of their availability on line and retrieve them directly from our website.
For more information and to register, please visit www.
Secretary and registered office C F Phillips, Wincanton plc, Methuen Park Chippenham Wiltshire SN14 0WT Tel 44 0 1249 71 00 00 Registered Number 4178808 72 Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Wincanton will become the leading Pan-European provider of supply chain management services.
Already challenging for leadership in the UK and Ireland, we will be amongst the top service providers in each of our major markets in Continental Europe.
Designed and produced by Addison Corporate Marketing Printed in the UK by St Ives Westerham Press Ltd Printed on paper, which is made from virgin wood fibre sourced from sawmill residues, forest thinnings and sustainable forests in Europe.
The pulps are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF.
The paper is fully biodegradable and recyclable and is produced in mills which hold ISO 9002 and ISO 14001 accreditation.
Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Leading in Europe Leading in Europe www.
co. uk Wincanton plc Methuen Park Chippenham Wiltshire SN14 0WT United Kingdom Creative solutions and consistent performance Tel 44 0 1249 71 00 00 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Fax 44 0 1249 71 00 01
