Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the Group The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which and parent Company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the and regulations.
parent Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for UK company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit Standards UK GAAP.
information of which the parent Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group.
the parent Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Companies Act 1985 provides, in relation to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part of the Act to financial statements, giving Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
preparing a Directors report, Directors remuneration report and corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing each of the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
28 Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
