WO40006 R&A 2006 72-147. qxd 10 10 06 8:57 pm Page 140 Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Wolseley Basis of audit opinion plc for the year ended 31 July 2006 which comprise the company We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards balance sheet and the related notes.
These parent company financial on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant out therein.
to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates We have reported separately on the group financial statements of and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Wolseley plc and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration parent company financial statements and of whether the accounting report for the year ended 31 July 2006. policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable information and explanations which we considered necessary in order law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement that the parent company financial statements are free from material of Directors Responsibilities.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, Opinion including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the In our opinion: companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in the parent company financial statements give a true and fair giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior at 31 July 2006: consent in writing.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company the information given in the Directors report is consistent with financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent the parent company financial statements.
company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report  LLP is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
We also Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper London accounting records, if we have not received all the information and 25 September 2006 explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the Group Chief Executives review, the Performance review and the Corporate Governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 140 Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc
