WO40006 R&A 2006 72-147. qxd 10 10 06 8:53 pm Page 75 Group accounting policies Year ended 31 July 2006 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Consolidation accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The consolidated financial information includes the results of the parent as adopted by the European Union, including interpretations issued by Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 July 2006. the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and its committees and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to The trading results of businesses acquired, sold or discontinued during companies reporting under IFRS.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1, the year are included in profit on ordinary activities from the date First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards of effective acquisition or up to the date of sale or discontinuance.
concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 45.
The date of transition to IFRS is 1 August 2004.
Intra-group transactions and balances and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated A summary of the principal accounting policies applied by the Group in on consolidation.
the preparation of the consolidated financial statements is set out below.
Foreign currencies Basis of accounting Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the subsidiary undertakings are measured using the currency of the primary historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available economic environment in which the subsidiary undertaking operates for sale investments and financial assets and liabilities held for trading.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group First-time adoption of International Financial and the functional currency of the parent Company.
Reporting Standards The trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting into sterling using average rates of exchange ruling during the relevant Standards sets out the procedures that the Group must follow financial period.
when it adopts IFRS for the first time as the basis for preparing its consolidated financial statements.
The Group is required to establish The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated its IFRS accounting policies as at 31 July 2006 and, in general, apply into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the period end.
these retrospectively to determine the IFRS opening balance sheet at Exchange differences arising between the translation into sterling of its date of transition, 1 August 2004. the net assets of these subsidiary undertakings at rates ruling at the beginning and end of the year are recognised in the currency Certain optional exemptions to this general principle are available translation reserve as are exchange differences on foreign currency under IFRS 1 and the significant first-time adoption choices made by borrowings to the extent that they are used to finance or provide the Group are as follows: a hedge against foreign currency net assets.
The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to Changes in the fair value and the final settlement value of derivative business combinations that took place before 1 August 2004. financial instruments, entered into to hedge foreign currency net As a result, in the IFRS opening balance sheet, goodwill arising assets and that satisfy the hedging conditions of IAS 39, are from past business combinations of 666 million remains as stated recognised in the currency translation reserve see the separate under UK GAAP at that date.
accounting policy on derivative financial instruments.
The Group has elected to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and losses in relation to post employment defined benefit schemes In the event that an overseas subsidiary undertaking is sold, the at the date of transition.
In addition, the Group has elected to gain or loss on disposal recognised in the income statement is recognise actuarial gains and losses in full in the period in which determined after taking into account the cumulative currency they occur in a statement of recognised income and expense.
translation differences that are attributable to the subsidiary The Group has elected to apply IFRS 2, Share Based Payment undertaking concerned.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has only to equity-settled awards that had not vested as at 1 August elected to deem the cumulative currency translation differences of 2004 and were granted on or after 7 November 2002 and the Group to be nil as at 1 August 2004.
As a result the gain or loss cash-settled awards that had not vested as at 1 August 2004. on disposal of an overseas subsidiary undertaking does not include The Group has elected to reset the foreign currency translation currency translation differences arising before 1 August 2004. reserve to zero at 1 August 2004.
Going forward, IFRS requires amounts taken to reserves on the retranslation of foreign Foreign currency transactions entered into during the year are subsidiaries to be recorded in a separate foreign currency translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the dates of translation reserve and be included in the future calculation the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign of profit or loss on sale of the subsidiary.
currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance The Group has elected to implement IAS 39, Financial Instruments: sheet date.
All currency translation differences are taken to the income Recognition and Measurement and IAS 32, Financial Instruments: statement with the exception of differences on foreign currency Disclosure and Presentation at its date of transition, 1 August 2004 borrowings to the extent that they are used to finance or provide and apply hedge accounting where the requirements of IAS 39 a hedge against foreign currency net assets as detailed above.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 75 Group accounting policies WO40006 R&A 2006 72-147. qxd 10 10 06 8:53 pm Page 76 Group accounting policies Year ended 31 July 2006 The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups Revenue share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Revenue is the amount receivable for the provision of goods and If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share services falling within the Groups ordinary activities, excluding intraof the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is group sales, estimated and actual sales returns, trade and early recognised directly in the income statement.
settlement discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes.
Intangible assets Revenue from the provision of goods is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership of goods have been transferred to the Goodwill customer.
The risks and rewards of ownership of goods are deemed Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over to have been transferred when the goods are shipped to, or are the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets picked up by, the customer.
of the acquired subsidiary undertaking at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings is included in Revenue from services, other than those that arise from construction intangible assets.
service contracts see below, are recognised when the service provided to the customer has been completed.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses Revenue in respect of construction service contracts, where the on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill Group is providing framing lumber installation services to residential relating to the entity sold.
property companies, is recognised using the percentage of completion method, with the percentage complete being determined by Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of comparing the percentage of costs incurred to date with the impairment testing.
Each of those cash-generating units represents estimated total costs of the contract.
Losses on these contracts, the lowest level within the Group at which the associated goodwill if any, are recognised in the period when such losses become is monitored for management purposes and are not larger than the probable and can be reasonably estimated.
primary or secondary reporting segments determined in accordance with IAS 14 Segmental Reporting.
Revenue from the provision of goods and all services is only recognised when the amounts to be recognised are fixed or Other intangible assets determinable and collectability is reasonably assured.
An intangible asset, which is an identifiable non-monetary asset without physical substance, is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the expected future economic benefits attributable to Vendor rebates the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost can be measured The Group enters into arrangements with certain vendors providing reliably.
The asset is deemed to be identifiable when it is separable for inventory purchase rebates.
These purchase rebates are accrued or when it arises from contractual or other legal rights.
as earned and are recorded initially as a reduction in inventory with a subsequent reduction in cost of sales when the related product is sold.
Intangible assets, primarily brands, trade names and customer relationships, acquired as part of a business combination are Business combinations capitalised separately from goodwill and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The Group has applied the purchase method in its accounting for Amortisation is calculated using the reducing balance method for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
customer relationships and the straight-line method for other intangible assets.
The cost of the intangible assets is amortised over As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 their estimated useful lives, which can range from less than a year Business Combinations to acquisitions of subsidiaries that were to 25 years, depending on the nature of the intangible asset.
recognised before 1 August 2004 and as a result the carrying amount of goodwill recognised as an asset under UK GAAP has been brought Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant forward unadjusted as the cost of goodwill recognised under IFRS as and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset and at 1 August 2004.
IFRS 3 has been applied with effect from 1 August is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 2004 and goodwill amortisation ceased from that date.
Costs include software licences, consulting costs attributable to the development, design and implementation of the The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets computer software and internal costs directly attributable to the given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed development, design and implementation of the computer software.
at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the Costs in respect of training and data conversion are expensed as acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent incurred.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at so as to charge the cost of the computer software to the income their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any statement over its estimated useful life 3-5 years.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 76 Group accounting policies WO40006 R&A 2006 72-147. qxd 12 10 06 12:42 am Page 77 initiated a plan to sell the asset which, when initiated, was expected Property, plant and equipment PPE to result in a completed sale within 12 months.
Assets that are PPE is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and classified as held for sale are not depreciated and are measured accumulated impairment losses, except for land and assets in the at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
course of construction, which are not depreciated and are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure Impairment of assets that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
In addition, subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, are not recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment and probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Assets that are subject to All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income amortisation are tested for impairment whenever events or changes statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight-line method to which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less useful life, as follows: costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing Freehold buildings and long leaseholds 3550 years impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there Short leaseholds over the period of the are separately identifiable cash flows.
lease Plant and machinery 710 years Inventories Fixtures and fittings 57 years Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Computers 35 years Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method or the Motor vehicles 4 years average cost method as appropriate to the nature of the transactions in those items of inventory.
The cost of goods purchased for resale The residual values and useful lives of PPE are reviewed and adjusted includes import and custom duties, transport and handling costs, if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
freight and packing costs and other attributable costs less trade discounts, rebates and other subsidies.
Borrowing costs attributable to assets under construction are charged Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Leased assets Taxation Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where Current tax represents the expected tax payable or recoverable substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or transferred to the Group, are capitalised in the balance sheet and substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their useful lives.
The account any adjustments arising from prior years.
asset is recorded at the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease.
The capital Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary elements of future obligations under finance leases are included in differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and liabilities in the balance sheet and analysed between current and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
The interest elements of future obligations under Deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition finance leases are charged to the income statement over the periods of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business of the leases and represent a constant proportion of the balance of combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither capital repayments outstanding in accordance with the effective accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are of ownership are classified as operating leases.
The cost of operating expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or leases net of any incentives received from the lessor is charged the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the income statement on a straight line basis over the periods to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be of the leases.
available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Assets held for sale Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal of recovered by sale rather than by continuing use in the business.
For the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable this to be the case, the asset must be available for immediate sale in that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
its present condition, management must be committed to and have Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 77 Group accounting policies WO40006 R&A 2006 72-147. qxd 10 10 06 8:53 pm Page 78 Group accounting policies Year ended 31 July 2006 recognised in full in the statement of recognised income and expense Derivative financial instruments in the period in which they occur.
The defined benefit liability or asset Derivative financial instruments, in particular, interest rate swaps and recognised in the balance sheet comprises the net total for each plan currency swaps, are used to manage the financial risks arising from of the present value of the benefit obligation at the balance sheet the business activities of the Group and the financing of those date, less any past service costs not yet recognised, less the fair activities.
There is no trading activity in derivative financial instruments.
value of the plan assets, if any, at the balance sheet date.
Where a plan is in surplus, the asset recognised is limited to the amount of any At the inception of a hedging transaction entailing the use of derivative unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount financial instruments, the Group documents the relationship between which the Group expects to recover by way of refunds or a reduction the hedged item and the hedging instrument together with its risk in future contributions.
management objective and the strategy underlying the proposed transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at the Trade receivables inception of the hedging relationship and subsequently on an ongoing basis, of the effectiveness of the hedge in offsetting movements in the Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and measured fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
Where Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the derivative financial instruments do not fulfil the criteria for hedge original terms of the receivables.
accounting contained in IAS 39, changes in their fair values are recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the fair value hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability is balance sheet to the extent that there is no right of offset and practice adjusted by the increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the of net settlement with cash balances.
hedged risk and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it will be Share capital offset by the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or as a net The Company only has one class of shares, ordinary shares, which investment hedge, to the extent the hedge is effective, changes in the are classified as equity.
fair value of the hedging instrument arising from the hedged risk are recognised directly in equity rather than in the income statement.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or When the hedged item is recognised in the financial statements, the options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net accumulated gains and losses recognised in equity are either recycled of tax.
to the income statement or, if the hedged item results in a non-financial asset, are recognised as adjustments to its initial carrying amount.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of tax, is deducted from equity Pensions and other post retirement benefits attributable to the companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, Contributions to defined contribution pension plans and other post reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold retirement benefits are charged to the income statement as incurred.
or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related tax effects, is included For defined benefit pension plans and other retirement benefits, the in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
cost is calculated annually using the projected unit credit method and is recognised over the average expected remaining service lives of Borrowings participating employees, in accordance with the recommendations of independent qualified actuaries.
The current service cost of defined Borrowings are recognised initially at cost being the fair value benefit plans is recorded within operating profit.
The total expected of the consideration received net of transaction costs incurred.
return from pension scheme assets less the total interest on pension scheme liabilities is recorded within finance revenue if a gain and Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with any finance costs if an expense.
Past service costs resulting from difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the enhanced benefits are recorded within operating profit and recognised redemption value being recognised in the income statement over on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, or immediately if the the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Actuarial gains and losses, which represent Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has differences between the expected and actual returns on the plan an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least assets and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 78 Group accounting policies WO40006 R&A 2006 72-147. qxd 10 10 06 8:53 pm Page 79 Investments Provisions The Group classifies its investments in the following categories: Provisions for environmental restoration, restructuring costs and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and legal claims are recognised when the Group has a present legal or receivables: held-to-maturity investments: and available-for-sale constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Such provisions are classification of its investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates measured at the present value of managements best estimate of the this designation at every reporting date.
expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
The discount rate used to determine the present value a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss reflects current market assessments of the time value of money.
This category comprises financial assets held for trading which have Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term.
Derivatives also fall within this category unless they are designated as Provisions for insurance represent an estimate, based on historical hedges and the hedge is effective for accounting purposes.
Assets in experience, of the ultimate cost of settling outstanding claims and this category are classified as current.
claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet.
b Loans and receivables Share-based payments Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Groups or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market executive share option, long-term incentive and share purchase and with no intention of trading.
They are included in current assets, schemes.
The Group recognises a compensation cost in respect except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance of these schemes that is based on the fair value of the awards, sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets.
Loans measured using Black-Scholes, Binomial and Monte Carlo valuation and receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the methodologies.
For equity-settled schemes, the fair value is balance sheet.
determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently re-measured unless the conditions on which the award was granted are modified.
c Held-to-maturity investments For cash-settled schemes, the fair value is determined at the date of Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with grant and is re-measured at each balance sheet date until the liability fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups is settled.
Generally, the compensation cost is recognised on a management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Adjustments are made They are included in non-current assets unless the investment is due to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period to mature within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
due to the failure to satisfy service conditions or non-market performance conditions.
d Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has applied IFRS 2 Share-based that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of Payment retrospectively only to equity-settled awards that had the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless not vested as at 1 August 2004 and were granted on or after management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months 7 November 2002 and cash-settled awards that had not vested of the balance sheet date.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs Dividends payable for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in the Groups financial from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
shareholders of the Company generally in the case of the final dividend or paid in the case of interim dividends.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 79 Group accounting policies
