WO40006 R&A 2006 148-152 10 10 06 10:19 pm Page 149 Notice of meeting This document is important and requires your immediate General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution attention.
If you have any doubts about what action you need to and in any event no later than 15 months after the passing of this take, you should contact your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor resolution unless previously revoked or varied by the Company in or accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised general meeting.
The power conferred by this resolution shall enable pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 immediately.
and allow the Directors to make an offer or an agreement before the If you have sold or transferred all of your holding of ordinary shares you expiry of the power which would or might require relevant securities should pass this Notice and accompanying documents to the person to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot relevant through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the purchaser or transferee.
authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting Resolution 11 of Wolseley plc will be held at Haberdashers Hall, 18 West That the Directors be and hereby are empowered, pursuant to section Smithfield, London EC1A 9HQ on Wednesday 29 November 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to allot equity securities 2006 at 12 noon.
as defined in section 94 of the Act for cash, at any time when they are generally authorised for the purposes of section 80 of the Act, as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, Routine business provided that this power shall be limited: To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions: 11.1 to the allotment of equity securities in connection with, or Resolution 1 pursuant to, a rights issue in favour of the holders of ordinary shares That the Directors Annual Report and Accounts and the auditors in the Company where the equity securities respectively attributable to report thereon for the year ended 31 July 2006 be received the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly and adopted.
as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares deemed to be held by them, subject only to such arrangements or exclusions as Resolution 2 the Directors may feel necessary or expedient to deal with fractional That the Directors remuneration report for the year ended entitlements otherwise existing or legal or practical problems arising 31 July 2006 be received and adopted.
by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or otherwise under the laws of or any other requirements of any Resolution 3 regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory or any matter To declare a final dividend of 19.55 pence per ordinary share.
whatsoever: and Resolution 4 11.2 to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph 11.1 That Mr Frank Roach be elected as a Director of the Company.
above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,215,136 equal to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Resolutions 5, 6 and 7 Company as at 25 September 2006 and shall expire at the conclusion That Messrs Davis, Hord and Stein be re-elected as Directors of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of the Company.
of this resolution and in any event no later than 15 months after the passing of this resolution.
Resolution 8 That the auditors  LLP be re-appointed The power conferred by this resolution shall enable and allow the as the Companys auditors, until the conclusion of the next Annual Directors to make an offer or an agreement before the expiry of the General Meeting of the Company.
power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in Resolution 9 pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred That the Directors be authorised to agree the remuneration by this resolution had not expired.
Resolution 12 That the Company be and hereby is generally and unconditionally Non-routine business authorised in accordance with Part VII of the Companies Act 1985 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section will be proposed as to Resolutions 10 and 13 as ordinary resolutions 163 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of and as to Resolutions 11 and 12 as special resolutions.
the Company provided that: Resolution 10 12.1 the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to That the Directors be and hereby are generally and unconditionally be purchased is 65,721,088: authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 of the Companies Act 12.2 the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share 1985 the Act, up to a maximum nominal amount of 35,697,279, is 25 pence, exclusive of expenses: which authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 149 Notice of meeting WO40006 R&A 2006 148-152 10 10 06 10:19 pm Page 150 Notice of meeting 12.3 the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share Explanatory notes is, in respect of a share contracted to be purchased on any day, an Resolution 1 amount equal to 105% of the average middle market quotations for The Directors are required to present to the Meeting the audited the ordinary shares of the Company derived from the Daily Official List accounts and the Directors and auditors report for the financial year of the London Stock Exchange on the five business days immediately ended 31 July 2006. preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased, exclusive of expenses: Resolution 2 The Directors report on remuneration includes the Companys policy 12.4 the power hereby granted shall expire at the conclusion of the on Directors remuneration for the next financial year and for the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of years subsequent to that, a table containing details of the Directors this resolution: and emoluments and a line graph that shows total shareholder return TSR from 1 August 2001, together with the TSR for the FTSE 100 12.5 the Company may under the authority conferred by this index since that date.
resolution and prior to the expiry of the authority make a contract to purchase its own ordinary shares which will or may be executed Resolution 3 wholly or partly after the expiry of the authority and may make a If resolution 3 is approved by shareholders the final dividend for purchase of its own ordinary shares in pursuance of such contract.
the year ended 31 July 2006 will be paid on 30 November 2006 to shareholders whose names appear on the register of members Resolution 13 at close of business on 6 October 2006.
That the Company and any company which is or becomes its subsidiary during the period to which this resolution relates, Resolution 4 be and is hereby authorised to: The Companys Articles of Association permit any Director appointed by the Board since the date of the last Annual General Meeting to 13.1 make donations to EU political organisations: and hold office only until the date of the next Annual General Meeting.
The Director is then eligible for election by shareholders.
Mr Roach 13.2 incur EU political expenditure is standing for election as an Executive Director following his appointment on 16 December 2005.
Mr Roach has a service contract both as defined in Part XA of the Companies Act 1985, as amended with the Company terminable by not less than six months notice by the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 in given by him or 12 months notice if given by the Company.
a total amount, including any amounts incurred by the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the period to which this resolution Resolutions 5, 6 and 7 relates, not exceeding 125,000 during the period commencing Under the Companys Articles of Association, one-third of the on the date of this Annual General Meeting and ending on the date Directors are required to retire by rotation each year and, in addition, of the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
no Director may serve for more than three years without being re-elected by shareholders.
Messrs Davis, Hord and Stein will retire by rotation this year in accordance with the Articles of Association and are proposed for re-election through separate resolutions numbered 5, 6 and 7.
Mr Davis is standing for re-election as a Non Executive Director.
Mr Davis is the Senior Independent Non Executive Director and is a member of the remuneration, audit and nominations committees.
Mr Davis does not have a service contract with the By order of the Board Company but his appointment is terminable on six months notice.
Mark J White Mr Hord is standing for re-election as an Executive Director.
Mr Hord Group Company Secretary and Counsel has a service contract with the Company terminable by not less than 8 October 2006 six months notice given by him or 12 months notice if given by the Company.
Mr Stein is standing for re-election as a Non Executive Wolseley plc Director.
He is a member of the audit committee.
Mr Stein does not Registered No.
29846, England have a service contract with the Company but his appointment is Parkview 1220 terminable on six months notice.
Arlington Business Park Theale Biographical details of all the Directors standing for election and Reading RG7 4GA re-election appear on pages 42 and 43 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 150 Notice of meeting WO40006 R&A 2006 148-152 10 10 06 10:19 pm Page 151 Resolutions 8 and 9 Resolution 12 Auditors have to be appointed at every general meeting at which This resolution empowers the Directors to make limited on-market accounts are presented to shareholders.
The current appointment purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
The power is limited of  LLP as the Companys auditors will end to a maximum of 65,721,088 shares 10% of the issued share capital at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and it has advised as at 25 September 2006 and details the minimum and maximum its willingness to stand for reappointment.
It is normal practice for prices that can be paid, exclusive of expenses.
The authority a companys Directors to be authorised to agree how much the conferred by this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the auditors should be paid.
Companys next Annual General Meeting.
Resolutions 10 and 11 The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares The Companies Act 1985 prevents Directors from allotting unissued Regulations 2003 came into force on 1 December 2003.
These shares without the authority of shareholders in general meeting.
regulations allow shares repurchased by the Company to be held as The Companys Articles of Association permit the Directors to allot treasury shares.
Treasury shares may be cancelled, sold for cash or unissued shares but this power is subject to renewal by shareholders.
used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
The authority to Resolution 10 empowers the Directors to allot shares of up to be sought by this resolution is intended to apply equally to shares to 35,697,279 in nominal amount representing the authorised but be held by the Company as treasury shares.
No dividends will be paid unissued ordinary share capital as at 25 September 2006, being a on shares which are held as treasury shares and no voting rights will date not more than one month prior to this Notice.
The Directors were be attached to them.
Shares held as treasury shares will be treated last given this authority at the Annual General Meeting held in 2005 as if cancelled.
The Company holds no shares in treasury but the and it is intended that renewal of this authority will be sought on an Directors currently intend that any shares which are repurchased annual basis.
Resolution 11 empowers the Directors to allot shares will be held in treasury.
for cash or sell transfer shares out of treasury otherwise than pro rata to existing shareholders but this power is limited to allotments in Resolution 13 connection with a rights issue and otherwise up to an aggregate This resolution enables the Directors to incur expenditure of up to nominal amount of 8,215,136 approximately 5% of the issued 125,000 including any such expenditure by a subsidiary company ordinary share capital as at 25 September 2006, being a date not without unintentionally breaching the provisions of the Political Parties, more than one month prior to this Notice.
Save for the issue of Elections and Referendums Act 2000, which defines political shares pursuant to the Companys various employee share schemes organisations and donations in a very broad manner.
The authority and any share dividend alternatives, the Directors do not presently sought will, if granted, last until the conclusion of the 2007 Annual intend to allot any unissued shares.
Treasury shares and the regulations General Meeting of the Company when the Directors intend to seek which came into force on 1 December 2003 in relation to them, renewal of this authority.
The policy of not giving any cash are more fully explained in the note to Resolution 12. contributions to any political party will continue.
The authority conferred by these Resolutions will expire no later than The Directors consider that each of the resolutions is in the best 15 months from the date on which the resolution is passed, or at interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2007, recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of all resolutions, whichever is the sooner.
as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own shares.
Similar resolutions have been approved by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting since 1984.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 151 Notice of meeting WO40006 R&A 2006 148-152 10 10 06 10:19 pm Page 152 Notice of meeting The Companys obligation is satisfied when it transmits an electronic Electronic communications message.
It cannot be held responsible for a failure in transmission The law now allows the Company to send shareholder information, beyond its control.
In the event that the Company becomes aware including Annual Reports, Notices of General Meetings and Forms that an electronic transmission is not successfully transmitted, a paper of Proxy to you electronically, provided only that you agree to receive notification will be sent to the shareholder at their registered address.
The Company also reserves the right, irrespective of your election, to revert to sending paper documentation by post, whenever the Board This will have a number of advantages, including: considers it necessary or desirable to do so.
Speedier delivery of documents: Cost savings for the Company on the delivery of documents: Enquiries Saving on environmental resources: Confirmation of receipt of proxy appointments.
Lloyds TSB Registrars maintain the Companys share register.
They also provide a telephone helpline service.
If you have any enquiries To receive your shareholder documentation electronically, you will need about the Annual General Meeting or about your Wolseley plc to register with our Registrars online service, www.
shareholding, you may contact Lloyds TSB Registrars: This is a secure service enabling shareholders to set up and view personal shareholding details.
When you register please have your by telephone to the Shareholder helpline: shareholder reference number to hand this can be found on your from the UK 0870 241 3934 share certificate or your proxy form.
from outside the UK 44 121 415 7047 To encourage more shareholders to convert to e-communications, or in writing to Lloyds TSB Registrars 0049 if you make the choice to receive all future communications electronically, The Causeway we will arrange for a sapling tree to be planted in the UK to be Worthing dedicated to you.
West Sussex BN99 6DA This offer and the provision of a facility to communicate with shareholders electronically, does not discriminate between registered website www.
co. uk shareholders of the same class.
The facility is available to all registered shareholders on equal terms and participation is made as simple as The Bank of New York maintains the Companys American Depositary possible.
Please note that it is the shareholders responsibility to notify Receipt register.
co. uk of any change to their If you have any enquiries about your holding of Wolseley American e-mail address.
Depositary Shares, you may contact the Bank of New York: The next opportunity for us to notify you electronically will be for the by telephone to the Shareholder helpline: Interim Report for 2007, which will be published in Spring 2007.
If you within the US 1-888-BNY-ADRS toll-free have registered, an e-mail will be sent in March April 2007 notifying from outside the US 1 212 815 3700 you that the report has been published and this will include a link to the relevant page on our website.
A similar procedure will be followed or in writing to Bank of New York for future shareholder documentation.
There are no particular software Investor Relations requirements to view these documents, other than those described PO Box 11258 Church Street Station and available on our website www.
Shareholders wishing New York, NY 10286-1258 to continue to receive shareholder information in the traditional paper format should take no action.
com Before electing for electronic communication, shareholders should Data protection statement ensure that they have the appropriate computer capabilities.
The Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your Company takes all reasonable precautions to ensure no viruses are behalf, which relates to you as a shareholder, including your name present in any communication it sends out, but cannot accept any and contact details, the votes you cast and your Reference Number responsibility for loss or damage arising from the opening or use of attributed to you by the Company.
The Company determines the any e-mail or attachments from the Company and recommends that purposes for which and the manner in which your personal data shareholders subject all messages to virus checking procedures prior is to be processed.
The Company and any third party to which it to use.
Please note that any electronic communication sent by a discloses the data including the Companys Registrars may process shareholder to the Company or the Registrar containing a computer your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the virus will not be accepted.
Companys records, fulfilling its legal obligations and processing the shareholder rights you exercise.
Published information The Notice of Annual General Meeting is also available in Braille or on an audio version on CD, depending on your requirements.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 152 Notice of meeting WO40006 R&A 2006 Cover 11 10 06 1:19 am Page 2 Wolseley is the worlds number one distributor of heating and plumbing products to the professional market and a leading supplier of building materials Certain statements included in this Annual Report and Accounts may be forward-looking and may and often do involve risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
The future is about Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, projections relating to results of operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans and objectives for future operations including, without limitation, discussions of the Companys business and financial plans, focus and execution to expected future revenues and expenditures, investments and disposals, risks associated with changes in economic conditions, the strength of the plumbing and heating and building materials market in North America and Europe, fluctuations in product prices and changes in exchange create sustained and and interest rates.
All forward-looking statements in this respect are based upon information known to the Company on the date of this Report.
Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only at their respective profitable growth, both dates.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
It is not reasonably possible to itemise all of the many factors and events that could cause the Companys forward-looking statements to be incorrect or that could acquisitive and organic, otherwise have a material adverse effect on the future operations or results of the Company.
across Europe and Designed and produced by 35 London Photography by George Brooks North America Printed by St Ives Westerham Press This report is printed on Revive 50:50 paper and cover board, with Revive Uncoated used in the financial section.
Revive 50:50 is made from 50% recovered waste fibre and 50% virgin wood fibre from sustainable forests.
Revive Uncoated is made from 80% fide-inked post-consumer waste and 20% virgin wood fibre from sustainable forests.
Both products are fully biodegradable and recyclable and produced in mills which hold ISO 9002 and ISO 14001 accreditation.
The CO emissions from the production and distribution of this Annual Report and 2 Accounts have been neutralised through UK forestry in Northcombe Farm, Devon.
Cover image: Build Center, Highgate, UK Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 WO40006 R&A 2006 Cover 11 10 06 1:19 am Page 1 Wolseley plc Parkview 1220 Arlington Business Park Theale Reading RG7 4GA United Kingdom Building Tel: 44 0 118 929 8700 Fax: 44 0 118 929 8701 Registration No.
com success Annual Report and Accounts 2006
