The Company mandates 4 Operating Review dividends through the BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services system.
The benefit to shareholders of the BACS payment method is that the Registrar 8 Financial Review posts the tax vouchers directly to them, whilst the dividend is credited on the payment date to the shareholders bank or building society account.
Shareholders 12 Corporate Social who have not yet arranged for dividends to be paid direct to their bank or building society account and wish to benefit from this service should request the Responsibility Companys Registrar address below to send them a Dividend Interest mandate form or alternatively complete the mandate form attached to any future Woolworths 13 Board of Directors dividend tax voucher.
The Mainchain stores comprise traditional Woolworths outlets 14 Directors Report located in small towns and city suburbs, targeted at meeting basic 16 Corporate Governance Dividend Reinvestment Plan everyday shopping requirements, as well as larger stores located 19 Directors Remuneration The Company provides a Dividend Reinvestment Plan enabling shareholders to apply their cash dividends to purchase additional ordinary shares in the on prime shopping streets in major regional shopping centres.
market at competitive dealing rates.
Full details can be obtained from the Registrar.
If you have previously completed a mandate form to join the Plan, Report you need take no further action.
The product offer covers Toys, Childrens Clothing, Events, 28 Statement of Directors Confectionery, Home and Entertainment: larger stores include Responsibilities Shareholder Information on the Internet a more comprehensive range of Home and Childrens Clothing.
29 Independent Auditors Report The Company maintains an investor relations zone on its website www.
com which allows access to share price information, www.
co. uk the Group management biographies, copies of Company reports and other useful investor information.
30 Group Income Statement In addition, Computershare Investor Service PLC, the Company Registrar, has introduced a facility where shareholders are able to access details Number of stores: 803 Group Statement of Recognised of their shareholding in the Company over the internet subject to complying with an identity check.
This service can be accessed on their website Average size sq ft: 8,450 Income and Expense www.
31 Group Balance Sheet Woolworths out-of-town stores offer a wider selection of Toys, Woolworths Group plc is a company incorporated, domiciled and registered in England and Wales Number 03855289.
32 Group Cash Flow Statement a babyshop, kids bedroom ranges and Entertainment products, 33 Notes to the Group Accounts Registrar Auditors all from a superstore format designed to meet demand for 67 Five Year Record Computershare  LLP out-of-town shopping.
68 Independent Auditors Report Investor Services PLC 1 Embankment Place the Company PO BOX 82 London WC2 6RH Number of stores: 18 69 Company Balance Sheet The Pavilions Average size sq ft: 51,300 70 Notes to the Bridgwater Road Company Accounts Bristol BS99 7NH Joint Brokers 76 Shareholder Information Tel: 0870 889 3108 UBS www.
com 1 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP Registered and Head Office JP Morgan Cazenove Woolworth House Entertainment Wholesale & Publishing 20 Moorgate 242246 Marylebone Road London EC2R 6DA London NW1 6JL Tel: 020 7262 1222 www.
com Joint Financial Advisors 2 | Entertain UBS The Group holds a 40 per cent share in this joint venture, 1 Finsbury Avenue combining the former VCI audio and video business with London EC2M 2PP BBC Worldwides video publishing arm.
Recent video titles include Little Britain 2 and Jeremy Clarkson: Heaven and Hell Credit Suisse First Boston and on audio, Daniel ODonnell: From Daniel with Love.
co. uk London E14 4QJ Entertainment UK Limited Solicitors EUK is the countrys largest wholesale distributor of Home Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer Entertainment products, DVDs, CDs, videos, books and games 64 Fleet Street software, supplying Britains retailers with their entertainment London EC4 1HS ranges.
EUK offers a value added wholesale service which includes managing retailers inventory, merchandising, staff training and product labelling.
EUK has also established EUK Direct, offering a wholesale distribution service and a direct to home solution for Entertainment retailers on the internet.
co. uk 2 Entertain | Designed and produced by williams and phoa Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Woolworths Group plc www.
com Woolworth House 242246 Marylebone Road London NW1 6JL Telephone: 020 7262 1222 Facsimile: 020 7706 5416 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
