Our 2006 financial statements Accounting policies he consolidated financial Goodwill and other intangible assets statements of WPP Group plc the Group for the year ended Intangible assets comprise goodwill, certain acquired 31 December 2006 have been separable corporate brand names, customer relationships prepared in accordance with and capitalised computer software not integral to a related International Financial Reporting item of hardware.
Standards IFRS as adopted Goodwill represents the excess of fair value attributed by the European Union as to investments in businesses or subsidiary undertakings they apply to the financial over the fair value of the underlying net assets, including statements of the Group for intangible assets, at the date of their acquisition.
Goodwill the year ended 31 December 2006. arising on our acquisitions result from the fact our The Groups financial statements are also consistent acquisitions are aimed at helping us position our portfolio with International Financial Reporting Standards as in the faster-growing functional and geographic areas.
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
These acquisitions complement and give rise to synergies with our existing portfolio of businesses, and bring skilled staff to deliver services to our clients.
Goodwill arising on Basis of preparation acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP The financial statements have been prepared under the amounts subject to being tested for impairment.
Goodwill historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting not been reinstated and is not included in determining any policies are set out below.
subsequent pro t or loss on disposal.
The Group has taken the option as permitted by IFRS 1 to apply IAS 21 the effects of changes in foreign Basis of consolidation exchange rates retrospectively to fair value adjustments and goodwill arising in all business combinations that occurred The consolidated financial statements include the results before the date of transition to IFRS.
of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings made Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken up to the same accounting date.
All intra-Group balances, annually or more frequently if events or changes in transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
The results of subsidiary undertakings carrying value of goodwill is compared to the net present acquired or disposed of during the period are included or value of future cash ows derived from the underlying excluded from the income statement from the effective date assets using a projection period of up to five years for each of acquisition or disposal.
After the projection period a steady or declining growth rate representing an appropriate long-term growth rate for the industry is applied.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
Corporate brand names acquired as part of acquisitions of business are capitalised separately from goodwill as intangible assets if their value can be measured WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Our 2006 financial statements
