Our 2006 financial statements Notes to the Reconciliation to US Accounting Principles 1 Signi cant differences between IFRS and US had been amortised or included in the write-off against share owners funds as at 1 January 1998, as more fully described in the Groups accounting policies.
The Generally Accepted Accounting Principles cumulative difference in goodwill resulting from incremental US GAAP impairment charges since the implementation of SFAS 142 amounts to 104.3 million as at 31 December 2006 2005: 75.5 million.
The Groups financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS which differ in certain signi cant respects from US GAAP.
These differences relate principally to the Under US GAAP, SFAS 142 prescribes a two-step impairment test: following items: The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of a reporting a Goodwill and other intangibles unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill.
The Group uses the discounted Capitalisation of goodwill cash ow method in determining the fair value of each reporting unit and also Under US GAAP Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 141, Business gives consideration to the overall market capitalisation of the Group.
There are no Combinations, or SFAS 141 and IFRS IFRS 3, Business Combinations, purchase differences in the performance of this step between IFRS and US GAAP, other than consideration in respect of subsidiaries acquired is allocated on the basis of fair values the amounts tested may differ due to GAAP differences affecting the carrying amounts to the various net assets, including intangible assets, at the dates of acquisition and of goodwill.
any net balance is treated as goodwill.
As the Group has elected not to restate its If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step prior business combinations on transition to IFRS, goodwill arising on acquisitions of the goodwill impairment test, used to measure the amount of impairment loss, before 1 January 1998 remains fully written off against equity share owners funds, compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of consistent with the approach under UK GAAP as it stood prior to the transition to that goodwill.
In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard No.
10 FRS 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, goodwill arising on acquisitions on or after 1 January 1998 The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner that the amount and before the adoption of IFRS on 1 January 2004 has been capitalised as an of goodwill recognised in a business combination is determined.
That is, the Group intangible asset.
This results in a difference in the gross carrying value of goodwill, allocates the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit including the impact of currency translation, of 1,118.7 million at 31 December 2006 including any previously unrecognised intangible assets as if the reporting unit had 2005: 1,177.1 million.
In addition, as allowed by IFRS 1, a revaluation associated been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the with the acquisition of JWT was recorded in the year following its acquisition and price paid to acquire the reporting unit.
The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit is not recognised under US GAAP.
This resulted in a difference in carrying value of over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill.
2005: 175.0 million The reporting units of the Group used in this assessment are its operating segments As allowed by IFRS 1, the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively or one level below i. e. individual of ces.
Where reporting units are represented by to business combinations completed prior to 1 January 2004.
Therefore WPP has individual of ces, those reporting units are assessed for aggregation for purposes of historically amortised a number of acquisitions where the life of the goodwill was testing for impairment of goodwill.
Reporting units are aggregated if they supply similar determined to be nite.
IFRS 3 prohibits amortisation of goodwill and instead requires services, provide these services in a similar manner, have like types and classes of annual impairment testing.
Under US GAAP SFAS 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible customers and have similar economic characteristics.
The reporting units under Assets goodwill is not amortised for business combinations completed after 30 June US GAAP are the same as the cash generating units under IFRS.
2001: however, amortisation had been recorded under US GAAP historically on Under IFRS IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, the impairment test is only a one-step test, business combinations completed through 30 June 2001.
This resulted in a difference as more fully described in the note on accounting policies in the financial statements.
in cumulative amortisation of goodwill, including the impact of currency translation, This could give rise to a GAAP difference related to the impairment of goodwill.
At 31 December 2006 this difference was immaterial.
Under IFRS, and for acquisitions completed prior to 1 January 2004, UK GAAP, Other intangibles share consideration for acquisitions is measured by reference to the share price Under IFRS, the Group has applied IAS 38, Intangible Assets to acquisitions on the date the acquisition becomes effective, while under US GAAP the relevant completed since 1 January 2004, which has resulted in the recognition of acquired measurement date is the date of the announcement of the proposed acquisition and intangible assets with a carrying value of 271.9 million and 330.3 million at its recommendation to share owners by the respective Boards of directors.
For the 31 December 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The Company generally assesses the fair acquisition of Young & Rubicam Inc, the share consideration was measured under UK value of identi able intangible assets based on the net present value of expected future GAAP at the share price on 4 October 2000 of 7.99, while under US GAAP, the share cash ows to be derived.
consideration was measured at 8.45, the share price on 12 May 2000.
This resulted in a purchase price which differed, including the impact of currency translation, by Under US GAAP, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 141, effective for all 215.4 million 2005: 223.6 million and a corresponding difference in the gross business combinations initiated after 30 June 2001, the allocation of purchase carrying amount of goodwill.
For the acquisition of Grey, the share consideration consideration should include recognition of the fair value of identi able intangible was measured under IFRS at the share price on 7 March 2005 of 6.22, while assets, as applicable, such as corporate brand names, customer relationships under US GAAP the share consideration was measured at 5.14, the share price on and proprietary tools.
Intangible assets, net of amortisation, recognised under US 11 September 2004.
This resulted in a purchase price difference, including the impact GAAP with respect to business combinations completed prior to 1 January 2004 of currency translation, of 81.8 million 2005: 88.9 million.
resulted in a difference in carrying value of acquired intangible assets of 52.3 million at 31 December 2006 2005: 66.6 million.
The additional charge in 2006 relating Impairment to amortisation and impairment of these intangibles was 14.3 million 2005: The Groups inde nite-lived intangible assets consist of goodwill, including the impact 17.2 million, 2004: 28.5 million.
of currency translation, and corporate brand names.
The carrying value of these assets is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in b Contingent consideration circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.
Under IFRS, the Group provides for contingent consideration as a liability when it considers the likelihood of payment as probable.
Under US GAAP, contingent Under IFRS, an impairment charge is required for both goodwill and other inde niteconsideration is not recognised until the underlying contingency is resolved lived intangible assets when the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, and consideration is issued or becomes issuable.
At 31 December 2006, the fide ned as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Our approach Groups liabilities for vendor payments under IFRS totalled 235.5 million 2005: in determining the recoverable amount utilises a discounted cash ow methodology.
220.0 million, of which 213.5 million 2005: 180.6 million is dependent on the Impairment charges recorded under IFRS amounted to 35.5 million, 46.0 million future performance of the interests acquired.
As these liabilities are represented by and 40.6 million respectively, in 2006, 2005 and 2004.
The impairment charges goodwill arising on acquisitions, there is no net effect on equity share owners funds.
relate to certain under-performing businesses during each respective period where Under US GAAP, however, a balance sheet classi cation difference arises such that the impact of the current local economic conditions and trading circumstances on liabilities and goodwill would each be reduced by the amount indicated as of each year these businesses during each respective period was suf ciently severe to indicate end.
This difference represents a continuing difference between IFRS and US GAAP.
impairment to the carrying value of goodwill.
For further details on the Companys annual impairment review, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.
In certain historical transactions the Group had considered that there was a commercial need to tie in vendors to the businesses acquired: however the directors Additional impairment charges of 28.8 million 3.1 million related to Public believe that, in substance, payments made under earnouts represent purchase Relations & Public Affairs, 6.5 million related to Branding & Identity, Healthcare and consideration rather than compensation for services.
Under US GAAP, payments Specialist Communications, 0.3 million related to Information, Insight & Consultancy made to vendors which are conditional upon them remaining in employment with and 18.9 million related to Advertising & Media Investment Management, the Company under earnout are required to be treated as compensation, except in 22.7 million 10.3 million related to Branding & Identity, Healthcare and Specialist rare instances, and the anticipated compensation expense is therefore accrued on Communications, 12.2 million related to Information, Insight & Consultancy and a systematic basis over the earnout period.
As allowed by IFRS 1, the Group has 0.2 million related to Advertising & Media Investment Management and 10.2 million elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to business combinations completed prior 7.0 million related to Branding & Identity, Healthcare and Specialist Communications, to 1 January 2004.
Therefore, for these historical transactions such earnout payments 3.1 million related to Advertising & Media Investment Management and 0.3 million are treated as compensation, while under IFRS the payments are treated as part of the related to Public Relations & Public Affairs offset by a reduction of 0.2 million related purchase price of the transaction.
This is a transitional difference between IFRS and to Information, Insight & Consultancy were recorded under US GAAP in 2006, 2005 US GAAP that will continue to affect the reconciliation of net income until the earnout and 2004, respectively.
Under UK GAAP, substantially all such impaired goodwill periods on pre-1 January 2004 acquisitions expire.
Our 2006 financial statements WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Our 2006 financial statements Notes to the Reconciliation to US Accounting Principles c Accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities e Employer payroll taxes The Group has taken advantage of the exemption available under IFRS 1 not to apply Under IFRS, provisions for National Insurance contributions are required to be IAS 32 and IAS 39 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004.
Therefore, as measured initially at the date of grant of share-based awards and recognised over allowed by IFRS 1, in 2004, gains or losses on forward foreign exchange contracts the vesting period.
Under US GAAP, National Insurance contributions with respect were deferred and recognised in the pro t and loss account or as adjustments to the to share-based awards are recognised on the date of the event triggering the carrying amount of xed assets.
Interest differentials as a result of interest rate swaps measurement and payment of the contribution, which is generally the exercise or were recognised by adjusting net interest payable over the periods of the contract.
This represents a continuing difference between IFRS and US GAAP.
Under US GAAP, the Group accounts for derivative instruments under SFAS 133, f Tax items Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.
The Statement requires Deferred taxes that every derivative instrument including certain derivative instruments embedded Under both IFRS and US GAAP deferred taxes are accounted for on all temporary in other contracts be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or liability differences unless speci cally excepted by the relevant standards.
Deferred tax measured at its fair value.
It also requires that changes in the derivatives fair value differences principally arise as a result of additional temporary differences between be recognised currently in earnings unless speci c hedge-accounting criteria are the IFRS and US GAAP carrying values of assets and liabilities relative to their tax met.
Special accounting for qualifying hedges allows a derivatives gains and losses bases, as described in detail throughout these Notes to the Reconciliation to US to offset related results on the hedged item in the income statement, and requires Accounting Principles.
that a company must formally document, designate, and assess the effectiveness of transactions that receive hedge accounting.
Treatment of pre-acquisition losses Under IFRS IAS 12, Income Taxes, the tax effect of the recognition of the asset Following the Groups adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 January 2005, under IFRS in respect of the utilisation of pre-acquisition losses may be taken to the income derivatives are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Under US GAAP, the tax effect of the recognition of the asset in respect remain with respect to certain derivatives terminated prior to 1 January 2005 and of the utilisation of pre-acquisition losses is recorded to goodwill directly and has no hedge relationships designated under IFRS with effect from that date, as follows: impact on tax expense.
In 2006, the adjustment for tax items includes nil 2005: i under the transitional provisions of IFRS, the Group has deferred the gains on swaps nil, 2004: 6.5 million of tax expense resulting from the utilisation of pre-acquisition terminated prior to 1 January 2005 and is amortising them over the remaining life of the losses and an 8.8 million reversal 2005: 1.1 million, 2004: 12.6 million of underlying bond.
Under US GAAP the gains were recognised through income prior to associated goodwill write-off recorded under IAS 12. termination of the swaps and now reside in retained earnings.
This is a transitional GAAP Treatment of net operating losses difference and will continue until the gains deferred under IFRS are fully amortised.
Under both IFRS and US GAAP, deferred tax assets are recognised for net operating ii under IFRS the Group has designated certain of its derivatives as hedging loss carryforwards to the extent there exists an expectation of its utilisation in the instruments in fair value and net investment hedge relationships with effect from future.
However, the order in which the net operating losses are utilised differs under 1 January 2005.
Under US GAAP these derivatives are not designated as hedging IFRS and US GAAP.
Therefore, certain deferred tax assets recognised under IFRS are instruments.
Consequently, all changes in fair value of these derivatives are recognised not recognisable under US GAAP.
In 2006, this difference resulted in the elimination of in the income statement under US GAAP.
Under IFRS, depending on the hedge 24.3 million of deferred taxes under US GAAP.
relationship, changes in fair value of the derivatives may be deferred in equity or offset Share-based payments against changes in fair value of the hedged item within the income statement.
Under US GAAP, deferred tax assets for share awards are recorded based on the In addition, under IFRS, option agreements that allow the Groups equity partners to recorded compensation expense.
Under IFRS, deferred tax assets are recognised require the Group to purchase a minority interest are treated as derivatives over equity based on the intrinsic gain at the year end.
The amount recognised in the income instruments and are recorded in the balance sheet at present value of expected cash statement is capped at the tax effected share award charge, with any excess being out ows.
Under US GAAP, these options are recorded at their fair value.
d Pension accounting g Other investments Under IFRS, pension costs are accounted for in accordance with IAS 19, Employee Under IFRS, other investments are classi ed as available-for-sale.
They are recorded Bene ts.
Under US GAAP, pension costs are determined in accordance with the at fair value with changes in fair value being reported in equity.
Under US GAAP, requirements of SFAS 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, SFAS 88, Employers listed investments are also considered available for sale and are reported at fair value.
Accounting and Settlements and Curtailments of fide ned Bene t Pension Plans and Unlisted investments are carried at cost less any provision for other than temporary for Termination Bene ts and, effective 31 December 2006, SFAS 158, Employers impairment, representing a continuing difference between IFRS and US GAAP.
Accounting for fide ned Bene t Pension and other Post Retirement Plans.
The aggregate carrying value of cost investments as of 31 December 2006 was 30.7 million 2005: 32.0 million, 2004: 7.9 million.
The differences in accounting policy are primarily due to differing treatment of actuarial gains and losses which arise over the accounting period as a result of h Recognition of liabilities investment returns and demographic assumptions differing from those previously Under US GAAP, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 140, Accounting for assumed, and also the effect of changing actuarial assumptions.
Under IAS 19, Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, liabilities these actuarial gains and losses are immediately recognised in the Statement of are released when the underlying legal obligation becomes completely extinguished.
Recognised Income and Expense SORIE, whereas under SFAS 87 the actuarial Under IFRS, since the Group did not apply IAS 39 in respect of the year ended 31 gains and losses that at the beginning of the year exceed 10% of the greater of the December 2004, as permitted under IFRS 1, the requirement for liabilities to have been value of assets and the projected bene t obligation, are amortised over the average legally extinguished in order for derecognition to occur was not applied until 1 January future service period of the scheme members.
This was a transitional difference between IFRS and US GAAP.
IAS 19 also requires prior service costs to be expensed over the period in which the i Convertible debt bene t vests, whereas SFAS 87 provides for these costs to be amortised over the Under IFRS, IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, requires future service periods of those employees active at the date of the amendment who convertible debt instruments to be classi ed into both liability and equity elements, as are expected to receive bene ts under the plan.
described in the note on accounting policies in the financial statements.
The 2006 financial statements re ect a 9.1 million 2005: 15.9 million, 2004: Under US GAAP, conventional convertible debt instruments are accounted for under 9.5 million difference in the fide ned bene t pensions charge between IFRS and APB 14, Accounting for Convertible Debt and Debt Issued with Stock Purchase US GAAP.
The difference in the fide ned bene t pension charge is largely due to Warrants which requires the issuer of a conventional convertible debt instrument the Groups fide ned bene t schemes experiencing actuarial losses in past years issued without a substantial discount to account for the convertible debt entirely as a which arose primarily from poor investment returns, somewhat offset by more liability.
As a result, under IFRS the initial recognition of the liability is for a lower amount recent investment returns in excess of expected returns, and changes in actuarial than under US GAAP and consequently the finance cost under IFRS over the period assumptions.
The US GAAP charge includes an amortisation component in respect of to the redemption of the convertible debt is higher.
The impact of this GAAP difference these past losses, which is not re ected in the IFRS charge.
Such gains and losses will in 2006 is that the finance charges relating to the Groups convertible debt under IFRS be recycled out of other comprehensive income and continue to be amortised through are 13.4 million 2005: 13.8 million, 2004: nil higher than under US GAAP.
the income statement over the remaining expected service period of the scheme Convertible debt instruments in which the conversion feature provides for a settlement members, consistent with the accounting in previous years.
in a combination of cash and shares have the conversion feature separately accounted Further, SFAS 87 requires the recognition of an additional liability to the extent that the for as a liability under US GAAP.
SFAS 133 requires such conversion features to be liability in respect of any scheme does not cover the unfunded accumulated bene t accounted for as an embedded derivative and measured at fair value at inception and obligation for that scheme.
This has been amended by SFAS 158 which requires the at each balance sheet date with changes in fair value reported in the income statement.
employer to recognise the overfunded or underfunded status of a fide ned bene t The impact of this GAAP difference in 2006 was an additional US GAAP finance cost of pension and other postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its statement of 7.0 million 2005: 1.1 million, 2004: nil to recognise the movement in fair value of the financial position and to recognise the changes in that funded status in the year in conversion feature.
which the changes occur through comprehensive income, a separate component of These differences between IFRS and US GAAP will continue.
j Share-based compensation The 2006 US GAAP pension provision includes a 93.9 million adjustment for the In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB issued SFAS introduction of SFAS 158, to recognise the overall underfunded status of the Groups 123 revised 2004, Share-Based Payment SFAS 123R.
SFAS 123R replaces SFAS fide ned bene t pension plans.
This replaces the additional minimum liability, which 123 and supersedes APB 25.
SFAS 123R requires that the cost resulting from all would have been 83.7 million under SFAS 87, and represented the amount by which share-based payment transactions be recognised in the financial statements at fair the accumulated bene t obligation exceeded the fair value of plan assets, for a net value.
SFAS 123R is effective for the Group from 1 January 2006, but early adoption adoption impact of 10.2 million.
In aggregate, with the adoption of SFAS 158 under is encouraged.
The Group has elected to adopt SFAS 123R effective 1 January 2004 US GAAP, there remains a 1.0 million difference in the amount of pension fide cit using the modi ed retrospective method.
recognised on the balance sheet due to the irrecoverable surplus under IAS 19.
Under IAS 19, recognition of a surplus is limited to the net present value of any Under the modi ed retrospective method, from the effective date, compensation economic bene ts available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future cost is recognised based on the requirements of SFAS 123R for all new share-based contributions to the plan, while surplus recognition is not limited under SFAS 158. awards and based on the requirements of SFAS 123 for all awards granted prior to the WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Our 2006 financial statements
