Our 2006 financial statements Notes to the Reconciliation to US Accounting Principles 1 Signi cant differences between IFRS and US had been amortised or included in the write-off against share owners funds as at 1 January 1998, as more fully described in the Groups accounting policies.
The Generally Accepted Accounting Principles cumulative difference in goodwill resulting from incremental US GAAP impairment charges since the implementation of SFAS 142 amounts to 104.3 million as at 31 December 2006 2005: 75.5 million.
The Groups financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS which differ in certain signi cant respects from US GAAP.
These differences relate principally to the Under US GAAP, SFAS 142 prescribes a two-step impairment test: following items: The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of a reporting a Goodwill and other intangibles unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill.
The Group uses the discounted Capitalisation of goodwill cash ow method in determining the fair value of each reporting unit and also Under US GAAP Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 141, Business gives consideration to the overall market capitalisation of the Group.
There are no Combinations, or SFAS 141 and IFRS IFRS 3, Business Combinations, purchase differences in the performance of this step between IFRS and US GAAP, other than consideration in respect of subsidiaries acquired is allocated on the basis of fair values the amounts tested may differ due to GAAP differences affecting the carrying amounts to the various net assets, including intangible assets, at the dates of acquisition and of goodwill.
any net balance is treated as goodwill.
As the Group has elected not to restate its If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step prior business combinations on transition to IFRS, goodwill arising on acquisitions of the goodwill impairment test, used to measure the amount of impairment loss, before 1 January 1998 remains fully written off against equity share owners funds, compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of consistent with the approach under UK GAAP as it stood prior to the transition to that goodwill.
In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard No.
10 FRS 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, goodwill arising on acquisitions on or after 1 January 1998 The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner that the amount and before the adoption of IFRS on 1 January 2004 has been capitalised as an of goodwill recognised in a business combination is determined.
That is, the Group intangible asset.
This results in a difference in the gross carrying value of goodwill, allocates the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit including the impact of currency translation, of 1,118.7 million at 31 December 2006 including any previously unrecognised intangible assets as if the reporting unit had 2005: 1,177.1 million.
In addition, as allowed by IFRS 1, a revaluation associated been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the with the acquisition of JWT was recorded in the year following its acquisition and price paid to acquire the reporting unit.
The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit is not recognised under US GAAP.
This resulted in a difference in carrying value of over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill.
2005: 175.0 million The reporting units of the Group used in this assessment are its operating segments As allowed by IFRS 1, the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively or one level below i. e. individual of ces.
Where reporting units are represented by to business combinations completed prior to 1 January 2004.
Therefore WPP has individual of ces, those reporting units are assessed for aggregation for purposes of historically amortised a number of acquisitions where the life of the goodwill was testing for impairment of goodwill.
Reporting units are aggregated if they supply similar determined to be nite.
IFRS 3 prohibits amortisation of goodwill and instead requires services, provide these services in a similar manner, have like types and classes of annual impairment testing.
Under US GAAP SFAS 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible customers and have similar economic characteristics.
The reporting units under Assets goodwill is not amortised for business combinations completed after 30 June US GAAP are the same as the cash generating units under IFRS.
2001: however, amortisation had been recorded under US GAAP historically on Under IFRS IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, the impairment test is only a one-step test, business combinations completed through 30 June 2001.
This resulted in a difference as more fully described in the note on accounting policies in the financial statements.
in cumulative amortisation of goodwill, including the impact of currency translation, This could give rise to a GAAP difference related to the impairment of goodwill.
At 31 December 2006 this difference was immaterial.
Under IFRS, and for acquisitions completed prior to 1 January 2004, UK GAAP, Other intangibles share consideration for acquisitions is measured by reference to the share price Under IFRS, the Group has applied IAS 38, Intangible Assets to acquisitions on the date the acquisition becomes effective, while under US GAAP the relevant completed since 1 January 2004, which has resulted in the recognition of acquired measurement date is the date of the announcement of the proposed acquisition and intangible assets with a carrying value of 271.9 million and 330.3 million at its recommendation to share owners by the respective Boards of directors.
For the 31 December 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The Company generally assesses the fair acquisition of Young & Rubicam Inc, the share consideration was measured under UK value of identi able intangible assets based on the net present value of expected future GAAP at the share price on 4 October 2000 of 7.99, while under US GAAP, the share cash ows to be derived.
consideration was measured at 8.45, the share price on 12 May 2000.
This resulted in a purchase price which differed, including the impact of currency translation, by Under US GAAP, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 141, effective for all 215.4 million 2005: 223.6 million and a corresponding difference in the gross business combinations initiated after 30 June 2001, the allocation of purchase carrying amount of goodwill.
For the acquisition of Grey, the share consideration consideration should include recognition of the fair value of identi able intangible was measured under IFRS at the share price on 7 March 2005 of 6.22, while assets, as applicable, such as corporate brand names, customer relationships under US GAAP the share consideration was measured at 5.14, the share price on and proprietary tools.
Intangible assets, net of amortisation, recognised under US 11 September 2004.
This resulted in a purchase price difference, including the impact GAAP with respect to business combinations completed prior to 1 January 2004 of currency translation, of 81.8 million 2005: 88.9 million.
resulted in a difference in carrying value of acquired intangible assets of 52.3 million at 31 December 2006 2005: 66.6 million.
The additional charge in 2006 relating Impairment to amortisation and impairment of these intangibles was 14.3 million 2005: The Groups inde nite-lived intangible assets consist of goodwill, including the impact 17.2 million, 2004: 28.5 million.
of currency translation, and corporate brand names.
The carrying value of these assets is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in b Contingent consideration circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.
Under IFRS, the Group provides for contingent consideration as a liability when it considers the likelihood of payment as probable.
Under US GAAP, contingent Under IFRS, an impairment charge is required for both goodwill and other inde niteconsideration is not recognised until the underlying contingency is resolved lived intangible assets when the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, and consideration is issued or becomes issuable.
At 31 December 2006, the fide ned as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Our approach Groups liabilities for vendor payments under IFRS totalled 235.5 million 2005: in determining the recoverable amount utilises a discounted cash ow methodology.
220.0 million, of which 213.5 million 2005: 180.6 million is dependent on the Impairment charges recorded under IFRS amounted to 35.5 million, 46.0 million future performance of the interests acquired.
As these liabilities are represented by and 40.6 million respectively, in 2006, 2005 and 2004.
The impairment charges goodwill arising on acquisitions, there is no net effect on equity share owners funds.
relate to certain under-performing businesses during each respective period where Under US GAAP, however, a balance sheet classi cation difference arises such that the impact of the current local economic conditions and trading circumstances on liabilities and goodwill would each be reduced by the amount indicated as of each year these businesses during each respective period was suf ciently severe to indicate end.
This difference represents a continuing difference between IFRS and US GAAP.
impairment to the carrying value of goodwill.
For further details on the Companys annual impairment review, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.
In certain historical transactions the Group had considered that there was a commercial need to tie in vendors to the businesses acquired: however the directors Additional impairment charges of 28.8 million 3.1 million related to Public believe that, in substance, payments made under earnouts represent purchase Relations & Public Affairs, 6.5 million related to Branding & Identity, Healthcare and consideration rather than compensation for services.
Under US GAAP, payments Specialist Communications, 0.3 million related to Information, Insight & Consultancy made to vendors which are conditional upon them remaining in employment with and 18.9 million related to Advertising & Media Investment Management, the Company under earnout are required to be treated as compensation, except in 22.7 million 10.3 million related to Branding & Identity, Healthcare and Specialist rare instances, and the anticipated compensation expense is therefore accrued on Communications, 12.2 million related to Information, Insight & Consultancy and a systematic basis over the earnout period.
As allowed by IFRS 1, the Group has 0.2 million related to Advertising & Media Investment Management and 10.2 million elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to business combinations completed prior 7.0 million related to Branding & Identity, Healthcare and Specialist Communications, to 1 January 2004.
Therefore, for these historical transactions such earnout payments 3.1 million related to Advertising & Media Investment Management and 0.3 million are treated as compensation, while under IFRS the payments are treated as part of the related to Public Relations & Public Affairs offset by a reduction of 0.2 million related purchase price of the transaction.
This is a transitional difference between IFRS and to Information, Insight & Consultancy were recorded under US GAAP in 2006, 2005 US GAAP that will continue to affect the reconciliation of net income until the earnout and 2004, respectively.
Under UK GAAP, substantially all such impaired goodwill periods on pre-1 January 2004 acquisitions expire.
Our 2006 financial statements WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006
