Our 2006 financial statements Accounting policies he consolidated financial Goodwill and other intangible assets statements of WPP Group plc the Group for the year ended Intangible assets comprise goodwill, certain acquired 31 December 2006 have been separable corporate brand names, customer relationships prepared in accordance with and capitalised computer software not integral to a related International Financial Reporting item of hardware.
Standards IFRS as adopted Goodwill represents the excess of fair value attributed by the European Union as to investments in businesses or subsidiary undertakings they apply to the financial over the fair value of the underlying net assets, including statements of the Group for intangible assets, at the date of their acquisition.
Goodwill the year ended 31 December 2006. arising on our acquisitions result from the fact our The Groups financial statements are also consistent acquisitions are aimed at helping us position our portfolio with International Financial Reporting Standards as in the faster-growing functional and geographic areas.
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
These acquisitions complement and give rise to synergies with our existing portfolio of businesses, and bring skilled staff to deliver services to our clients.
Goodwill arising on Basis of preparation acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP The financial statements have been prepared under the amounts subject to being tested for impairment.
Goodwill historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting not been reinstated and is not included in determining any policies are set out below.
subsequent pro t or loss on disposal.
The Group has taken the option as permitted by IFRS 1 to apply IAS 21 the effects of changes in foreign Basis of consolidation exchange rates retrospectively to fair value adjustments and goodwill arising in all business combinations that occurred The consolidated financial statements include the results before the date of transition to IFRS.
of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings made Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken up to the same accounting date.
All intra-Group balances, annually or more frequently if events or changes in transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
The results of subsidiary undertakings carrying value of goodwill is compared to the net present acquired or disposed of during the period are included or value of future cash ows derived from the underlying excluded from the income statement from the effective date assets using a projection period of up to five years for each of acquisition or disposal.
After the projection period a steady or declining growth rate representing an appropriate long-term growth rate for the industry is applied.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
Corporate brand names acquired as part of acquisitions of business are capitalised separately from goodwill as intangible assets if their value can be measured WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Our 2006 financial statements Our 2006 financial statements Accounting policies reliably on initial recognition and it is probable that the line basis over its estimated useful life, as follows: expected future economic bene ts that are attributable to Freehold buildings 50 years the asset will ow to the Group.
Leasehold land and buildings over the term of the lease Certain corporate brands of the Group are considered or life of the asset, if shorter to have an inde nite economic life because of the Fixtures, ttings and equipment 3-10 years institutional nature of the corporate brand names, their Computer equipment 3-5 years proven ability to maintain market leadership and pro table operations over long periods of time and the Groups commitment to develop and enhance their value.
The Interests in associates carrying value of these intangible assets is reviewed at least annually for impairment and adjusted to the recoverable The Groups share of the pro ts less losses of associate amount if required.
undertakings net of tax, interest and minority interest is Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write included in the consolidated income statement and the off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a Groups share of net assets is shown within interests in straight-line basis over its estimated useful life as follows: associates in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Groups Acquired intangibles share of the pro ts less losses and net assets is based on Brand names 10-20 years current information produced by the undertakings, adjusted Customer related intangibles 3-10 years to conform with the accounting policies of the Group.
Other proprietary tools 3-10 years The Group assesses the carrying value of its associate Other undertakings to determine if any impairment has occurred.
Other including capitalised computer software 3-5 years Where this indicates that an investment may be impaired, the Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 in assessing the carrying amount of the investment.
This process includes Contingent consideration comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying value.
The Group accounts for joint venture investments Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of under the equity method which is consistent with the contingent consideration earnouts are based on the Groups treatment of associates.
directors best estimates of future obligations, which are dependent on the future performance of the interests acquired and assume the operating companies improve Other investments pro ts in line with directors estimates.
When earnouts are to be settled by cash consideration, the fair value of the Other investments are designated as available for sale and consideration is obtained by discounting to present value are shown at fair value with any movements in fair value the amounts expected to be payable in the future.
resulting interest charge is included within finance costs.
On disposal of the security the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the pro t or loss for the year.
Impairment losses recognised in pro t Property, plant and equipment or loss for equity investments classi ed as available for sale are not subsequently reversed through pro t or loss.
Property, plant and equipment are shown at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
Inventory and work in progress The Group assesses the carrying value of its property, plant and equipment to determine if any impairment has occurred.
Work in progress is valued at cost or on a percentage of Where this indicates that an asset may be impaired, the completion basis where appropriate.
Cost includes outlays Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 in assessing incurred on behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion the carrying amount of the assets.
This process includes of directly attributable costs and overheads on incomplete comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying value.
Provision is made for irrecoverable costs where Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the appropriate.
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straightrealisable value.
Our 2006 financial statements WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Our 2006 financial statements Accounting policies Trade receivables Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for bad and in pro t or loss immediately, together with any changes in doubtful debts.
the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of Financial instruments derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to The Group has taken advantage of the exemption available the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in pro t under IFRS 1 not to apply IAS 32 Financial Instruments: or loss.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in pro t Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in Instruments: Recognition and Measurement in respect of the pro t or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that year ended 31 December 2004.
UK GAAP has continued to is hedged results in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset be applied to financial instruments in that year.
As the Group or a nonfinancial liability, the gains and losses previously adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 1 January 2005, deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included the balance sheet was restated at that date in accordance in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
with the requirements of these standards.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging The accounting policy under UK GAAP for the year instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, ended 31 December 2004 is disclosed in note 26. or no longer quali es for hedge accounting.
At that time, The accounting policy under IFRS for the years ended any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument 31 December 2006 and 2005 is as follows: recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no Foreign currency and interest rate hedging longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net pro t or loss for The Groups policy on Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange the period.
Rate Management sets out the instruments and methods Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments available to hedge interest and currency risk exposures and or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives the control procedures in place to ensure effectiveness.
when their risks and characteristics are not closely related The Group uses derivative financial instruments to to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported movements.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative in the income statement.
financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are Liabilities in respect of option agreements subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in pro t Option agreements that allow the Groups equity partners or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and to require the Group to purchase a minority interest are effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing treated as derivatives over equity instruments and are of the recognition in pro t or loss depends on the nature of recorded in the balance sheet at fair value and the valuation the hedge relationship.
is remeasured at each period end.
Fair value is based on the At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity present value of expected cash out ows and the movement documents the relationship between the hedging instrument in the fair value is recognised as income or expense within and hedged item, along with its risk management objectives finance costs in the income statement.
and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging Derecognition of financial liabilities instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows In accordance with IAS 39, a financial liability of the of the hedged item.
Group is only released to the income statement when the Note 26 contains details of the fair values of the underlying legal obligation is extinguished.
derivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Our 2006 financial statements Our 2006 financial statements Accounting policies Convertible debt Information, Insight & Consultancy Convertible debt is assessed according to the substance of Revenue recognised in proportion to the level of service the contractual arrangements and is classi ed into liability performed for market research contracts is based and equity elements on the basis of the initial fair value of on proportional performance.
In assessing contract the liability element.
The difference between this gure and performance, both input and output criteria are reviewed.
the cash received is classi ed as equity.
Costs incurred are used as an objective input measure of The income statement charge for the finance cost will performance.
The primary input of all work performed be spread evenly over the term of the convertible debt so under these arrangements is labour.
As a result of the that at redemption the liability equals the redemption value.
relationship between labour and cost, there is normally a direct relationship between costs incurred and the proportion of the contract performed to date.
Costs Bank borrowings incurred as a proportion of expected total costs is used as an initial proportional performance measure.
This Other interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are indicative proportional performance measure is always recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
subsequently validated against other more subjective criteria i. e. relevant output measures such as the percentage of interviews completed, percentage of reports delivered to Borrowing costs a client and the achievement of any project milestones stipulated in the contract.
In the event of divergence Finance costs of borrowing are recognised in the income between the objective and more subjective measures, the statement over the term of those borrowings.
more subjective measures take precedence since these are output measures.
While most of the studies provided in connection Revenue recognition with the Groups market research contracts are undertaken in response to an individual clients or group of clients Revenue comprises commission and fees earned in respect speci cations, in certain instances a study may be developed of amounts billed.
Direct costs include fees paid to external as an off-the-shelf product offering sold to a broad client suppliers where they are retained to perform part or all of base.
For these transactions, revenue is recognised when the a speci c project for a client and the resulting expenditure product is delivered.
Where the terms of transaction provide is directly attributable to the revenue earned.
Revenue is for licensing the product on a subscription basis, revenue is stated exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
recognised over the subscription period on a straight-line basis or, if applicable, based on usage.
Advertising and Media Investment Management Substantially all services are provided on a xed price basis.
Pricing may also include a provision for a surcharge Revenue is typically derived from commissions on media where the actual labour hours incurred in completing a placements and fees for advertising services.
Revenue may project are signi cantly above the labour hours quoted consist of various arrangements involving commissions, in the project proposal.
In instances where this occurs, fees, incentive-based revenue or a combination of the three, the surcharge will be included in the total revenue base as agreed upon with each client.
on which to measure proportional performance when the Revenue is recognised when the service is performed, actual threshold is reached provided that collectibility is in accordance with the terms of the contractual reasonably assured.
Incentive-based revenue typically comprises both quantitative and qualitative elements: on the element related to quantitative targets, revenue is recognised when the quantitative targets have been achieved: on the element related to qualitative targets, revenue is recognised when the incentive is received receivable.
Our 2006 financial statements WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Our 2006 financial statements Accounting policies Public Relations & Public Affairs and Branding & Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are Identity, Healthcare and Specialist Communications expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on enacted or substantively Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and services enacted legislation.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the to be performed subject to speci c agreement.
Revenue is income statement, except when it relates to items charged or recognised when the service is performed, in accordance credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Revenue also dealt with in equity.
is recognised on long-term contracts, if the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty, by including in the income statement revenue and related costs as contract Retirement bene t costs activity progresses.
For fide ned contribution schemes, contributions are charged to the income statement as payable in respect of Taxation the accounting period.
For fide ned bene t schemes the amounts charged Corporate taxes are payable on taxable pro ts at current rates.
to operating pro t are the current service costs and The tax expense represents the sum of the tax gains and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They currently payable and deferred tax.
are included as part of staff costs.
Past service costs are The tax currently payable is based on taxable pro t recognised immediately in the income statement if the for the year.
Taxable pro t differs from net pro t as bene ts have vested.
If the bene ts have not vested, the reported in the income statement because it excludes items costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other The interest cost and the expected return on assets are years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or shown within finance costs and finance income respectively.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Where fide ned bene t schemes are funded, the assets Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group, recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts in separate trustee-administered funds.
Pension scheme of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and pro t, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent currency taxable temporary differences unless speci cally excepted and term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations by IAS 12.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each that it is probable that taxable pro ts will be available balance sheet date.
against which deductible temporary differences can be Recognition of a surplus in the fide ned bene t utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the schemes is limited to the total of any cumulative temporary difference arises from the initial recognition unrecognised net actuarial losses and past service cost of goodwill or other assets and liabilities other than in a and the present value of any economic bene ts available business combination in a transaction that affects neither in the form of refunds from the plan or reduction in the tax pro t nor the accounting pro t. future contributions to the plan.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that suf cient taxable pro ts will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Our 2006 financial statements Our 2006 financial statements Accounting policies Finance leases The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised in the income statement as an expense on a Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets straight-line basis over the relevant vesting period, based of the Group at the inception of the lease at the lower on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will of their fair value and the present value of the minimum ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect of non-marketlease payments.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged based vesting conditions.
to the income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
IFRS 2 Share-based payments applies to all shareLeasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and based payments granted since 7 November 2002, but the interest elements and the interest is charged to the income Group has elected for full retrospective restatement as this statement as it is incurred.
better represents the ongoing charge to the income statement.
Operating leases New IFRS accounting pronouncements Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any premium or the following Standards and Interpretations which have not discount on the acquisition of a lease is spread over the life been applied in these financial statements were in issue but of the lease on a straight-line basis.
not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures.
Translation of foreign currencies IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperin ationary Foreign currency transactions arising from normal trading Economies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2. activities are recorded at the rates in effect at the date of the IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the yearIFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Transactions.
Foreign currency gains and losses are IFRIC 12: Service Concession Arrangements.
credited or charged to the income statement as they arise.
The Group does not consider that these Standards The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings and Interpretations will have a signi cant impact on the are translated into pounds sterling at average exchange financial statements of the Group except for additional rates and the year-end net assets of these companies are disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the translated at year-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing arising from retranslation of the opening net assets and on on or after 1 January 2007. foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in such operations are reported in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Critical accounting judgements in applying Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the accounting policies acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Management is required to make key decisions and judgements in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The most signi cant areas where such Share-based payments judgements have been necessary are goodwill, acquisition reserves and accounting for pension liabilities.
Where The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments judgement has been applied, the key factors taken into including share options to certain employees and accounts consideration are disclosed in the appropriate note in these for these awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based financial statements.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non marketbased vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The Group has used a Black-Scholes valuation model for this purpose.
Our 2006 financial statements WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006
