Babcock International Group PLC 85 Annual report and accounts 2006 Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventeenth Annual General Meeting of the members of Babcock International Group PLC the company will be held at The Royal Society of Medicine, 1 Wimpole Street, London W1G 0AE, on Friday 14 July 2006, at 11.30 am for the transaction of the following business: As Ordinary Business: 1 To receive the Directors and Auditors reports and the audited Financial Statements of the company for the year ended 31 March 2006.
2 To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006 as recommended by the Directors.
3 To reappoint Sir Nigel Essenhigh as a Director of the company.
4 To reappoint Mr J N A Crookenden as a Director of the company.
5 To reappoint Lord Hesketh as a Director of the company.
6 To approve the Remuneration report of the Directors for the year ended 31 March 2006.
7 To reappoint  LLP as Auditors.
8 To authorise the Directors to set the remuneration of the Auditors, as they shall in their discretion see fit.
As Special Business, to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following special resolution: Special Resolution 9 That the company is hereby authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 60p each ordinary shares in the capital of the company provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 20,900,000: b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is not less than the nominal value thereof exclusive of the expenses of purchase: c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share exclusive of the expenses of purchase shall not exceed 105% of the average middle market quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the day of purchase: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 31 December 2007 or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the company whichever is the earlier unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make purchases of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
A N Dungate Secretary 15 June 2006 Registered Office: 2 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0PX Notes: 1 As required by the Combined Code, the reasons why the Board of the company believes that the non-executive Directors standing for reappointment Lord Hesketh, Sir Nigel Essenhigh and Mr Crookenden should be reappointed are set out in the Accompanying Notes on page 86.
2 An explanation of the special business resolution is given in the Explanatory Notes on page 86.
3 A holder of ordinary shares is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and may appoint a proxy to attend and, on a poll, vote on his or her behalf.
The proxy need not be a member of the company.
4 A holder of ordinary shares must be entered on the relevant register of securities in respect of such shareholding not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting.
5 A form of proxy is enclosed and, to be effective, must be completed in accordance with the instructions printed thereon and returned so as to be received by the Registrars of the company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Completion of a form of proxy will not affect the right of a member to attend and vote in person at the meeting.
6 The register of Directors interests in the share capital of the company, together with copies of service agreements or terms of appointment under which Directors of the company are engaged, are available for inspection at the companys registered office during normal business hours until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Babcock International Group PLC 86 Annual report and accounts 2006 Notice of meeting continued Accompanying notes The Combined Code requires the Board to set out the reasons why it believes that the non-executive Directors standing for reappointment Lord Hesketh, Sir Nigel Essenhigh and Mr Crookenden should be reappointed.
These are as follows: Lord Hesketh: The Board continues to value the contribution that Lord Hesketh brings to its meetings, with his longer-term experience of the groups activities and the markets in which it operates, together with his wide experience in a variety of commercial and political spheres.
In view of his length of service, he does not sit on any Committees membership of which, under the Combined Code, should be confined to independent non-executive Directors.
Sir Nigel Essenhigh: Sir Nigel has been a valued member of the Board since 2003, being an active and enthusiastic participant in its meetings and those of its committees, at which he demonstrates a robust independence of thought and brings a valuable perspective with his particular background in defence services.
Justin Crookenden: Although Mr Crookenden only joined the Board in December 2005 he is already playing an important part in its meetings and those of its committees, fully justifying the Boards decision to appoint him.
He brings valuable fresh perspectives and experience to the Board with his background in investment banking and insights into the City.
Note from the Chairman: I can confirm, as required by the Combined Code, that having fully evaluated their performance, the Board is of the view that each of Lord Hesketh, Sir Nigel Essenhigh and Mr Crookenden continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to his roles, including commitment of time for Board and, where applicable, Committee Meetings and other duties.
Gordon Campbell Explanatory note Resolution 9, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution, will renew the general authority for the company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares.
The renewed authority, in respect of a little under 10% of the companys issued share capital as at 1 June 2006, would be exercisable with a minimum purchase price of 60p per share and a maximum price of not more than 105% of the average middle market quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the day of purchase.
If granted, the authority would expire on 31 December 2007 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the company to be held in 2007.
Shares purchased under the authority would either be cancelled or held by the company as treasury shares.
The Directors have no present intention of using this power, and would only exercise the power if they were satisfied at any time that it was in the best interests of shareholders generally to do so, and that except in the case of a purchase of own shares to be held as treasury shares to fulfil obligations under the companys executive or employee share schemes any purchase would be likely to result in an increase in earnings per share.
The company has no warrants outstanding and the total number of options to subscribe for equity shares outstanding on 1 June 2006 being the latest practicable date before publication of the notice of meeting was 1,975,530 representing 0.94% of issued share capital as at 1 June 2006.
If the full authority to buy back shares were to be used, and the shares cancelled, these outstanding options would represent 1.05% of issued share capital.
