148 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Corporate Information The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a Directors resolution on 20 March 2007.
The ultimate parent entity of the Group, Xstrata plc, is a publicly traded limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in Switzerland.
Its ordinary shares are traded on the London and Swiss stock exchanges.
The principal activities of the Group are described in note 9.
Statement of compliance The accounting policies adopted are in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, as adopted by the European Union, effective for the Groups reporting for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the parents functional and presentation currency, and all values are rounded to the nearest million except where otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies in note 6 have been applied in preparing the financial statements.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates Estimates The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year.
Actual outcomes could differ from these estimates.
The below are the most critical estimates and assumptions: Estimated recoverable reserves and resources Estimated recoverable reserves and resources are used to determine the depreciation of mine production assets, in accounting for deferred stripping costs and in performing impairment testing.
Estimates are prepared by appropriately qualified persons, but will be impacted by forecast commodity prices, exchange rates, production costs and recoveries amongst other factors.
Changes in assumptions will impact the carrying value of assets and depreciation and impairment charges recorded in the income statement.
Environmental protection, rehabilitation and closure costs The provisions for environmental protection, rehabilitation and closure costs are based on estimated future costs using information available at the balance sheet date.
To the extent the actual costs differ from these estimates, adjustments will be recorded and the income statement may be impacted.
Impairment testing Note 15 outlines the significant assumptions made in performing impairment testing of goodwill and certain intangible assets.
Similar assumptions are made when testing other non-current assets.
Changes in these assumptions may alter the results of impairment testing and the resulting carrying values of assets.
Defined benefit pension plans Note 35 outlines the significant assumptions made when accounting for defined benefit pension plans.
Changes to these assumptions may alter the resulting accounting and ultimately the amount charged to the income statement.
Changes in accounting policies, new standards and interpretations not applied Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous year except as follows: The Group has adopted the following new and amended standards in the current year: IFRS 1 Amendments relating to IFRS 6 IFRS 4 & IAS 39 Amendments Financial guarantee contracts IFRS 6 Amendments relating to IFRS 6 IAS 21 Amendments to IAS 21 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates net investment in foreign operations IAS 39 Amendment Fair value option IAS 39 Amendment Cash flow hedge accounting for forecast intra-group transactions Adoption of the above new standards and amendments did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
The Group has also early adopted the following IFRIC interpretations: IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Re-assessment of embedded derivatives These interpretations did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements, consequently these pronouncements will impact the Group in future periods.
Effective date IFRS 7 Financial instrument disclosures 1 January 2007 IFRS 8 Operating segments 1 January 2009 IAS 1 Amendment: Capital disclosures 1 January 2007 IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29 1 March 2006 IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment 1 November 2006 IFRIC 11 Group and treasury share transactions 1 March 2007 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations on their effective dates will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will have to disclose additional information about its financial instruments, their significance and the nature and extent of risks that they give rise to.
More specifically the Group will need to disclose the fair value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater detail.
There will be no impact on income or net assets.
Upon adoption of IFRS 8, the Group will be required to disclose segment information based on the information management uses for internally evaluating the performance of operating segments and allocating resources to those segments.
This information may be different from that reported in the balance sheet and income statement but the Group will provide an explanation for such differences.
There will be no impact on the income or net assets.
150 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Principal Accounting Policies Basis of consolidation The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Xstrata plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group.
All inter-entity balances and transactions, including unrealised profits and losses arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passes.
Control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policy of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting period during which Xstrata plc has control.
Subsidiaries use the same reporting period and same accounting policies as Xstrata plc.
Interests in Joint Ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
The financial statements of the joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist.
Jointly controlled operations A jointly controlled operation involves the use of assets and other resources of the Group and other venturers rather than the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other entity.
The Group accounts for the assets it controls and the liabilities it incurs, the expenses it incurs and the share of income that it earns from the sale of goods or services by the joint venture.
Jointly controlled assets A jointly controlled asset involves joint control and offers joint ownership by the Group and other venturers of assets contributed to or acquired for the purpose of the joint venture, without the formation of a corporation, partnership or other entity.
The Group accounts for its share of the jointly controlled assets, any liabilities it has incurred, its share of any liabilities jointly incurred with other ventures, income from the sale or use of its share of the joint ventures output, together with its share of the expenses incurred by the joint venture, and any expenses it incurs in relation to its interest in the joint venture.
Jointly controlled entities A jointly controlled entity involves the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other legal entity in which the Group has an interest along with other venturers.
The Group recognises its interest in jointly controlled entities using the proportionate method of consolidation whereby the Groups share of each of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the joint venture are combined with the similar items, line by line, in its consolidated financial statements.
When the Group contributes or sells assets to a joint venture, any portion of gain or loss from the transaction is recognised based on the substance of the transaction.
When the Group has transferred the risk and rewards of ownership to the joint venture, the Group only recognises the portion of the gain or loss attributable to the other venturers, unless the loss is reflective of an impairment, in which case the loss is recognised in full.
When the Group purchases assets from the joint venture, it does not recognise its share of the profits of the joint venture from the transaction until it resells the assets to an independent party.
Losses are accounted for in a similar manner unless they represent an impairment loss, in which case they are recognised immediately.
Joint ventures are accounted for in the manner outlined above, until the date on which the Group ceases to have joint control over the joint venture.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Investments in Associates Entities in which the Group has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are associates, and are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method of accounting, the investment in the associate is recognised on the balance sheet on the date of acquisition at the fair value of the purchase consideration and therefore includes any goodwill on acquisition.
The carrying amount is adjusted by the Groups share of the post acquisition profit or loss: depreciation, amortisation or impairment arising from fair value adjustments made at date of acquisition and certain inter-entity transactions together with a reduction for any dividends received or receivable from the associate.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of such changes in equity.
The financial statements of the associates are prepared for the same reporting period as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Adjustments are made in the consolidated financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates.
The Group discontinues its use of the equity method from the date on which it ceases to have significant influence, and from that date, accounts for the investment in accordance with IAS 39 with its initial cost being the carrying amount of the associate at that date, provided the investment does not then qualify as a subsidiary or joint venture.
The Groups income statement reflects the share of associates results after tax and the Groups statement of recognised income and expense includes any amounts recognised by associates outside of the income statement.
Business Combinations Business combinations after 1 January 2004, are accounted for in accordance with the below policy.
Business combinations that occurred prior to this date have been accounted for in accordance with the Groups UK GAAP accounting policy at the time of the combination.
On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the purchase method of accounting is used whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable net assets on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Those mineral reserves and resources that are able to be reliably valued are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Other potential reserves, resources and mineral rights, for which in the Directors opinion, values cannot be reliably determined, are not recognised.
When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to the Groups share of the identifiable net assets the difference is treated as purchased goodwill, which is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually or where there is an indication of impairment.
If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the identifiable net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition the difference is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that are not held by the Group and are presented in equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from the parent shareholders equity.
When a subsidiary is acquired in a number of stages, the cost of each stage is compared with the fair value of the identifiable net assets at the date of that purchase.
Any excess is treated as goodwill, or any discount is immediately recognised in the income statement.
On the date control is obtained, the identifiable net assets are recognised in the Group balance sheet at fair value and the difference between the fair value recognised and the value on the date purchase is recognised in the asset revaluation reserve.
Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases of interests in associates.
Any goodwill arising on such purchases is included within the carrying amount of the investment in the associates, but not thereafter amortised.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the associates identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of the investment is included in income in the period of the purchase.
152 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Foreign currencies Financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, are maintained in their functional currencies and converted to US dollars for consolidation of the Group results.
The functional currency of each entity is determined after consideration of the primary economic environment of the entity.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at year end exchange rates.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date of the initial transactions.
Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a foreign currency, they are translated at the exchange rates when the fair value was determined.
Where the exchange difference relates to an item which has been recorded in equity, the related exchange difference is also recorded in equity.
On consolidation of foreign operations into US dollars, income statement items are translated at weighted average rates of exchange where this is a reasonable approximation of the exchange rate at the dates of the transactions.
Balance sheet items are translated at closing exchange rates.
Exchange differences on the re-translation of the investments in foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates at closing rates, together with differences between income statements translated at average and at closing rates, are recorded in a separate component of equity.
Exchange differences relating to quasi equity inter-company loan balances with the foreign operations which form part of the net investment in the foreign operation are also recognised in this component of equity.
On disposal or partial disposal of a foreign entity or on repayment of loans forming part of the net investment in the foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings to finance net investments and tax charges credits attributable to those exchange differences are also recorded in a separate component of equity to the extent that the hedge is effective.
Upon full or partial disposal or repayment of the net investment in the foreign operation including loans that form part of the net investment, the cumulative amount of the exchange differences is recognised in the income statement when the gain or loss on disposal or on loan repayment is recognised.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Revenue Revenue associated with the sale of commodities is recognised when all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset sold are transferred to the customer, usually when insurance risk has passed to the customer and the commodity has been delivered to the shipping agent.
Sales revenue is recognised at the fair value of consideration received, which in most cases is invoiced amounts, with most sales being priced free on board FOB, free on rail FOR or cost, insurance and freight CIF.
Revenues from the sale of by-products are also included in sales revenue.
Revenue is recognised, at fair value of the consideration receivable, to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue excludes treatment and refining charges unless payment of these amounts can be enforced by the Group at the time of the sale.
For some commodities the sales price is determined provisionally at the date of sale, with the final price determined at a mutually agreed date, generally at a quoted market price at that time.
In order to ensure that revenue is recorded at the fair value of consideration to be received, adjustments are made to the invoice price based on the forward metal prices published at the balance sheet date.
Interest income Interest income is recognised as earned on an accruals basis using the effective interest method in the income statement.
Exceptional items Exceptional items represent significant items of income and expense which due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, are presented separately on the face of the income statement to give a better understanding to shareholders of the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to better assess trends in financial performance.
Exceptional items include, but are not limited to, goodwill impairments, acquisition and integration costs which have not been capitalised, profits and losses on the sale of investments, profits and losses from the sale of operations, recycled gains and losses from the foreign currency translation reserve, foreign currency gains and losses on borrowings, restructuring and closure costs, loan issue costs written-off on facility refinancing and the related tax impacts of these items.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings, plant and equipment On initial acquisition, land and buildings, plant and equipment are valued at cost, being the purchase price and the directly attributable costs of acquisition or construction required to bring the asset to the location and condition necessary for the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
In subsequent periods, buildings, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value, whilst land is stated at cost less any impairment in value and is not depreciated.
Depreciation is provided so as to write off the cost, less estimated residual values of buildings, plant and equipment based on prices prevailing at the balance date on the following bases: Mine production assets are depreciated using a unit of production method based on estimated economically recoverable reserves, which results in a depreciation charge proportional to the depletion of reserves.
Buildings, plant and equipment unrelated to production are depreciated using the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives.
Where parts of an asset have differing useful lives, depreciation is calculated on each separate part.
Each item or parts estimated useful life has due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located, and to possible future variations in those assessments.
Estimates of remaining useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
Changes in estimates which affect unit of production calculations are accounted for prospectively.
154 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued The expected useful lives are as follows: Buildings 15 40 years Plant and Equipment 4 30 years Furniture and Fixtures 5 15 years Other 3 5 years The net carrying amounts of land, buildings, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cash-generating unit level when events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
To the extent that these values exceed their recoverable amounts, that excess is fully provided against in the financial year in which this is determined.
Expenditure on major maintenance or repairs includes the cost of replacement of parts of assets and overhaul costs.
Where an asset or part of an asset is replaced and it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will be available to the Group, the expenditure is capitalised and the carrying amount of the item replaced derecognised.
Similarly, overhaul costs associated with major maintenance are capitalised and depreciated over their useful lives where it is probable that future economic benefits will be available and any remaining carrying amounts of the cost of previous overhauls are derecognised.
All other costs are expensed as incurred.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment is disposed of, it is derecognised and the difference between its carrying value and net sales proceeds is disclosed as a profit or loss on disposal in the income statement.
Any items of property, plant or equipment that cease to have future economic benefits expected to arise from their continued use or disposal are derecognised with any gain or loss included in the income statement in the financial year in which the item is derecognised.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and includes costs such as exploratory drilling and sample testing and the costs of pre-feasibility studies.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure for each area of interest, other than that acquired from the purchase of another mining company, is carried forward as an asset provided that one of the following conditions is met: such costs are expected to be recouped in full through successful development and exploration of the area of interest or alternatively, by its sale: or exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest have not yet reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence or otherwise of economically recoverable reserves, and active and significant operations in relation to the area are continuing, or planned for the future.
Purchased exploration and evaluation assets are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination.
An impairment review is performed, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level, when there are indicators that the carrying amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amounts.
To the extent that this occurs, the excess is fully provided against, in the financial period in which this is determined.
Exploration assets are reassessed on a regular basis and these costs are carried forward provided that at least one of the conditions outlined above is met.
Expenditure is transferred to mine development assets or capital work in progress once the work completed to date supports the future development of the property and such development receives appropriate approvals.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Mineral properties and mine development expenditure The cost of acquiring mineral reserves and mineral resources is capitalised on the balance sheet as incurred.
Capitalised costs development expenditure include interest and financing costs relating to the construction of plant and equipment and costs associated with a start up period where the asset is available for use but incapable of operating at normal levels without a commissioning period.
Mineral reserves and capitalised mine development expenditure are, upon commencement of production, depreciated using a unit of production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves to which they relate or are written off if the property is abandoned.
The net carrying amounts of mineral reserves and resources and capitalised mine development expenditure at each mine property are reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cash-generating unit level when events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Capital work in progress Assets in the course of construction are capitalised in the capital work in progress account.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use.
Costs associated with a start up period are capitalised where the asset is available for use but incapable of operating at normal levels without a commissioning period.
Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
The net carrying amounts of capital work in progress at each mine property are reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cashgenerating unit level when events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
To the extent that these values exceed their recoverable amounts, that excess is fully provided against in the financial period in which this is determined.
Leasing and hire purchase commitments The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based in the substance of the arrangement at inception date, including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment after inception is only made in specific circumstances.
Assets held under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet at the lower of the fair value of the leased property or the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term calculated using the interest rate implicit in the lease agreement.
These amounts are determined at the inception of the lease and are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or lease term.
The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest elements of the lease or hire purchase obligations are charged to the income statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have not passed to the Group are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Deferred stripping costs In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste in order to access the ore body.
During the pre-production phase, these costs are capitalised as part of the cost of the mine property and depreciated based on the mines strip ratio refer below.
The costs of removal of the waste material during a mines production phase are deferred, where they give rise to future benefits.
The deferral of these costs, and subsequent charges to the income statement are determined with reference to the mines strip ratio.
156 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued The mines strip ratio represents the ratio of the estimated total volume of waste, to the estimated total quantity of economically recoverable ore, over the life of the mine.
These costs are deferred where the actual stripping ratios are higher than the average life of mine strip ratio.
The costs charged to the income statement are based on application of the mines strip ratio to the quantity of ore mined in the period.
Where the ore is expected to be evenly distributed, waste removal is expensed as incurred.
Biological assets Biological assets, being cattle, are carried at their fair value less estimated selling costs.
Any changes in fair value less estimated selling costs are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Intangible assets Purchased intangible assets are recorded at the cost of acquisition including expenses incidental to the acquisition, less accumulated amortisation and any impairment in value.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights, and the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised.
Intangible assets are amortised using a straight-line method based on estimated useful lives, except goodwill and those intangible assets which the Directors regard as having indefinite useful lives, which are not amortised but are reviewed for impairment at least annually, and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets are regarded as having an indefinite life when, based on an analysis of all the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash flows.
Such analyses are performed annually.
Estimated useful lives are determined as the period over which the Group expects to use the asset or the number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from the asset by the Group and for which the Group retains control of access to those benefits.
For intangible assets with a finite useful life, the amortisation method and period are reviewed annually and impairment testing is undertaken when circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Where an intangible asset is disposed of, it is derecognised and the difference between its carrying value and the net sales proceeds is reported as a profit or loss on disposal in the income statement.
Coal export rights Coal export rights are carried at cost and are considered to have an indefinite useful life.
As a result they are not amortised but are subject to an asset impairment review at least annually and more regularly if indicators of impairment exist.
Software and technology patents Software and technology patents are carried at cost and amortised over a period of 3 years and 20 years respectively.
Impairment of assets The carrying amounts of non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of impairment, a review is undertaken to determine whether the carrying amounts are in excess of their recoverable amounts.
An assets recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its valuein-use.
Such review is undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which case the review is undertaken at the cash-generating unit level.
Where a cash-generating unit, or group of cash-generating units, has goodwill allocated to it, or includes intangible assets which are either not available for use or which have an indefinite useful life and which can only be tested as part of a cash-generating unit, an impairment test is performed at least annually or whenever there is an indication that the carrying amounts of such assets may be impaired.
If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recorded in the income statement to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
In assessing the recoverable amount of assets, the relevant future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing use of such assets and from their disposal are discounted to their present value using a market-determined pre-tax discount rate which reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and asset-specific risks for which the cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
Principal Accounting Policies continued An impairment loss is reversed in the income statement if there is a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the prior impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount is increased to the recoverable amount but not beyond the carrying amount net of depreciation or amortisation which would have arisen if the prior impairment loss had not been recognised.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Goodwill impairments are not reversed.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the assets or disposal groups are available for immediate sale in their present condition.
The Group must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the date of classification.
Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of the carrying amount prior to being classified as held for sale, and the fair value less costs to sell.
A non-current asset is not depreciated while classified as held for sale.
A non-current asset held for sale is presented separately in the balance sheet.
The assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale are presented separately as one line in the assets and liabilities sections on the face of the balance sheet.
Discontinued Operations A discontinued operation is a component of an entity whose operations and cash flows are clearly distinguished, operationally and for financial reporting purposes from the rest of the entity, that has been disposed of or classified as held for sale.
To be classified as a discontinued operation one of the following criteria must be met: the operation must represent a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or the operation must be part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical areas of operations: or the operation must be a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view for resale.
Where the operation is discontinued at the balance sheet date, the results are presented in one line on the face of the income statement, and prior period results are represented as discontinued.
Financial instruments The Group applied the below accounting policies from 1 January 2005.
Prior to this time the Group accounted for financial instruments in accordance with UK GAAP.
Investments and other financial assets Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Where as a result of a change in intention or ability, it is no longer appropriate to classify an investment as held to maturity, the investment is reclassified into the available-for-sale category.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value on the trade date, plus, in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets classified as held for trading are included in the category financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term.
Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as and are effective hedging instruments.
Other assets can be designated to this category on initial recognition.
Gains or losses on these items are recognised in income.
158 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Held-to-maturity investments Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity are classified as held-to-maturity when the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Investments intended to be held for an undefined period are not included in this classification.
Other long term investments that are intended to be held-to-maturity, such as bonds, are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
This cost is computed as the amount initially recognised minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest method of any difference between the initially recognised amount and the maturity amount.
This calculation includes all fees paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums and discounts.
For investments carried at amortised cost, gains and losses are recognised in income when the investments are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified in any of the three preceding categories.
After initial recognition available-for sale financial assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Listed share investments are carried at fair value based on stock exchange quoted prices at the balance sheet date.
Unlisted shares are carried at fair value where it can be reliably obtained, otherwise they are stated at cost less any impairment.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at their original invoiced value or their recoverable amount if this differs from the invoiced amount.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost.
A provision is made where the estimated recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount.
Fair values The fair value of quoted financial assets is determined by reference to bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These include recent arms length market transactions: reference to current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis and pricing models.
Derivative financial instruments are valued using applicable valuation techniques such as those outlined above.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets A financial asset is derecognised where: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Where the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, it continues to recognise the financial asset to the extent of its continuing involvement in the asset.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Gains on derecognition are recognised within finance income and losses within finance costs.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset is impaired.
Financial assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables and held to maturity investments carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate ie the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Assets carried at cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannot be reliably measured, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in profit or loss, is transferred from equity to the income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in profit.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed through profit or loss, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss.
Rehabilitation Trust Fund Investments in the rehabilitation trust funds are measured at fair value based on the market price of investments held by the trust.
In accordance with IFRIC 5, movements in the fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Such amounts relate to trusts in South Africa which receive cash contributions to accumulate funds for the Groups rehabilitation liability relating to the eventual closure of the Groups coal operations.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, forward currency and commodity contracts to hedge its risks associated with interest rate, foreign currency and price fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to profit or loss for the year.
The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates and prices for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
160 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: fair value hedges: cash flow hedges: or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: Fair value hedges Fair value hedges are hedges of the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability that could affect profit or loss.
The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged, the derivative is re-measured at fair value and gains and losses from both are taken to profit or loss.
For fair value hedges relating to items carried at amortised cost, the adjustment to carrying value is amortised through profit or loss over the remaining term to maturity.
Any adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged financial instrument for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss.
Amortisation begins when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedges are a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction that could affect profit or loss.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or loss.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If the related transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to profit or loss.
Hedges of a net investment Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including a hedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of the net investment, are accounted for in a way similar to cash flow hedges.
Gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised directly in equity while any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in profit or loss.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or losses recognised directly in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
Own shares The cost of purchases of own shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP trust are deducted from equity.
Where they are issued to employees or sold, no gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Any proceeds received on disposal of the shares or transfer to employees are also recognised in equity.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Own shares purchased under the Equity Capital Management Program ECMP are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of such shares.
Such gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Loans are recognised at inception at fair value of the proceeds received, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Finance costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Convertible borrowings On issue of a convertible borrowing, the fair value of the liability component is determined by discounting the contractual future cash flows using a market rate for a non-convertible instrument with similar terms.
This value is carried as a liability on the amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to a separate component of equity, net of issue costs, which remains constant in subsequent periods.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components based on their respective carrying amounts when the instrument was issued.
On conversion, the liability is reclassified to equity and no gain or loss is recognised in the profit or loss.
Where the convertible borrowing is redeemed early or repurchased in a way that does not alter the original conversion privileges, the consideration paid is allocated to the liability and equity components.
The consideration relating to the equity component is recognised in equity and the amount of gain or loss relating to the liability element in profit or loss.
The finance costs recognised in respect of the convertible borrowings includes the accretion of the liability component to the amount that will be payable on redemption.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a weighted average basis or using first-in-first-out basis and includes all costs incurred in the normal course of business including direct material and direct labour costs, and an allocation of production overheads, depreciation and amortisation and other costs, based on normal production capacity, incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Cost of inventories includes the transfers from equity of gains and losses on qualifying cash flow hedges in respect of the purchase of materials.
Inventories are categorised, as follows: Raw materials and consumables: Materials, goods or supplies including energy sources to be either directly or indirectly consumed in the production process.
Work in progress: Items stored in an intermediate state that have not yet passed through all the stages of production.
Finished goods: Products and materials that have passed all stages of the production process.
Net realisable value represents estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash in hand and short term deposits with an original maturity of 3 months or less.
For the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include certain bank overdrafts where the facility forms part of the working capital cash management activities.
Government grants Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all the attaching conditions will be complied with.
Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are credited to the carrying amount of the related asset and are released to the income statement over the expected useful lives of the relevant assets.
Grants which are not associated with an asset are credited to income so as to match them with the expense to which they relate.
162 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Environmental protection, rehabilitation and closure costs Provision is made for close down, restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas in the financial period when the related environmental disturbance occurs, based on the estimated future costs using information available at the balance sheet date.
The provision is discounted using a current market-based pre-tax discount rate and the unwinding of the discount is included in interest expense.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised, where it gives rise to a future benefit, and depreciated over future production from the operations to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes to obligations or legislation or discount rates that effect change in cost estimates or life of operations.
The cost of the related asset is adjusted for changes in the provision resulting from changes in the estimated cash flows or discount rate, and the adjusted cost of the asset is depreciated prospectively.
Rehabilitation trust funds holding monies committed for use in satisfying environmental obligations are included within Other financial assets on the balance sheet.
Employee Entitlements Provisions are recognised for short term employee entitlements, on an undiscounted basis, for services rendered by employees that remain unpaid at the balance sheet date.
Provisions for long term employee entitlements are measured using the projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the liabilities.
In some of the Groups Australian operations, long service leave an employee entitlement for which a provision is recorded is administered by an independent fund.
The fund collects levies from employers throughout the industry based on the expected cost of future liabilities.
When the Group makes long service leave payments to employees covered by the fund, it is reimbursed for the majority of the payment.
To reflect the expected reimbursement for future long service leave payments from the fund, a receivable is recorded based on the present value of the future amounts expected to be reimbursed.
Other Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive, as result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources that can be reliably estimated will be required to settle the obligation.
Where the effect is material, the provision is discounted to net present value using an appropriate current market-based pre-tax discount rate and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
Taxation Current tax Current tax for each taxable entity in the Group is based on the local taxable income at the local statutory tax rate enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and includes adjustments to tax payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method in respect of all temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities, and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, except as indicated below: Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill, or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 163 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
To the extent that an asset not previously recognised fulfils the criteria for recognition, a deferred income tax asset is recorded.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised directly in equity are recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Pensions and other post-retirement obligations The Groups contributions to its defined contribution pension plans are charged to the income statement in the year to which they relate.
The Group contributes to separately administered defined benefit pension plans.
For defined benefit funds, plan assets are measured at fair value, while plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
In measuring its defined benefit liability past service costs are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately following the introduction of, or changes to, a defined benefit plan, the past service costs are recognised immediately.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for part or all of the benefits that have already accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are re-measured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for the year is determined using the projected unit method and is recognised in the income statement.
The difference between the expected return on plan assets and the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities is recognised in the income statement.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised directly in equity through the statement of recognised income and expenses.
The full pension surplus or deficit is recorded in the balance sheet, with the exception of the impact of any recognition of past service costs.
Surpluses recorded are restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions.
The Group also provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain employees in Canada, the Dominican Republic, South Africa and the United States.
These are accounted for in a similar manner to the defined benefit pension plans.
Ordinary share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the net proceeds received, which is the fair value of the consideration received less costs that are incurred in connection with the share issue.
The nominal par value of the shares issued is taken to the share capital account and any excess is recorded in the share premium account, including the costs that were incurred with the share issue.
Share-based compensation plans The Group makes share-based awards, including free shares and options, to certain employees.
164 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Equity-settled awards For equity-settled awards, the fair value is charged to the income statement and credited to retained earnings, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, after adjusting for the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest taking into account the achievement of non-market based performance conditions.
The fair value of the equity-settled awards is determined at the date of the grant.
In calculating fair value, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
The fair value is determined by external experts using option pricing models.
At each balance sheet date prior to vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest is computed after adjusting for non-market performance conditions.
The movement in cumulative expense is recognised in the income statement with a corresponding entry within equity.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification, over the remainder of the new vesting period.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the awards at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the new awards are treated as if they are a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
Cash-settled awards For cash-settled awards, the fair value is re-calculated at each balance date until the awards are settled based on the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest adjusting for market and non-market based performance conditions.
During the vesting period, a liability is recognised representing the portion of the vesting period which has expired at the balance sheet date times the fair value of the awards at that date.
After vesting the full fair value of the unsettled awards at each balance date is recognised as a liability.
Movements in the liability are recognised in the income statement.
The fair value is recalculated using an option pricing model refer to note 37.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions on adoption of IFRS in relation to unvested equity-settled awards and has applied the above policies only to awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested prior to 1 January 2005.
Equity settled awards that do not meet the criteria above are accounted for in accordance with the Groups historical UK GAAP accounting policy which was to recognise only the intrinsic value or cost of the potential awards as an expense.
The cost of these awards were accrued over the performance period of each plan based on the intrinsic value of the equity settled award.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period they incurred, except to the extent they are related to the establishment of a loan facility.
In such cases they are capitalised and amortised over the life of the facility.
Comparatives Where applicable, prior year figures have been adjusted to disclose them on the same basis as current period figures.
The most significant adjustment relates to the classification of deferred stripping.
Deferred stripping costs, which were previously classified within other assets on the balance sheet, have been reclassified to property, plant and equipment to more accurately reflect the nature of the asset.
Previously, when the costs deferred were charged to the income statement, the amount charged was recorded in cost of sales.
Consistent with the adjusted presentation in the balance sheet, amounts charged to the income statement are now included in depreciation cost of sales.
This change in classification has resulted in the reclassification from other assets to property, plant and equipment of US$304 million as at 31 December 2006 2005 US$141 million.
The reclassification from cost of sales to depreciation cost of sales was US$18 million for the year ended 31 December 2006 2005 US$nil.
Acquisitions Business combinations Cerrejn 1 On 20 April 2006, the Group acquired a 33 3% interest in the Cerrejn thermal coal operation in Colombia Cerrejn for a cash consideration of US$1,719 million from Glencore International AG also refer to note 36.
1 The provisional fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the 33 3% interest in Cerrejn as at the date of acquisition were: IFRS Fair Provisional carrying value fair value US$m value adjustments to Group Intangible assets 118 118 Property, plant and equipment 347 1,341 1,688 Financial assets 14 56 70 Inventories 44 44 Trade and other receivables 36 49 85 559 1,328 1,887 Trade and other payables 30 49 79 Provisions 8 5 3 Deferred tax liabilities 77 400 477 Income taxes payable 17 17 Financial liabilities 5 55 60 Net assets 422 829 1,251 Goodwill arising on acquisition 464 1,715 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the joint venture interest 9 Acquisition costs 5 Cash paid 1,719 1,715 These fair values are provisional due to the complexity of the acquisition.
The review of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired will continue for 12 months from the acquisition date.
From the date of acquisition, Cerrejn has contributed US$76 million to the profit of the Group.
The goodwill balance is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired and their tax bases.
166 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 7.
Acquisitions continued Tintaya On 21 June 2006, the Group acquired 100% of the Tintaya copper mine in Peru Tintaya for a consideration of US$852 million including working capital adjustments and deferred purchase consideration from BHP Finance International Limited.
The provisional fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Tintaya as at the date of acquisition were: IFRS Fair Provisional carrying value fair value US$m value adjustments to Group Property, plant and equipment 303 488 791 Prepayments 1 1 Inventories 90 90 Trade and other receivables 143 4 139 537 484 1,021 Trade and other payables 33 33 Provisions 50 44 94 Deferred tax liabilities 9 130 139 Income taxes payable 33 33 Net assets 412 310 722 Goodwill arising on acquisition 125 847 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 5 Cash paid 816 Contingent consideration 36 847 The fair values are provisional due to the complexity of the acquisition.
From the date of acquisition, Tintaya has contributed US$189 million to the profit of the Group.
Acquisitions continued Falconbridge Limited Falconbridge Limited Falconbridge, a company in which the Group held a 19.9% interest in at 31 December 2005, was a diversified Canadian mining company listed on the Toronto and New York stock exchanges.
On 2 August 2006 the Group acquired an additional 4.4% of Falconbridges issued and outstanding common shares.
On 15 August 2006, a further 67.8% of Falconbridge was purchased for CAD62.50 per share to bring its total beneficial ownership to 92.1%.
The remainder of the issued and outstanding common shares were purchased during the period to 1 November 2006 for CAD62.50 per share.
The total cash cost of the acquisition, including amounts paid in 2005, was US$18,819 million.
Control of Falconbridge was obtained on 15 August 2006 and for the purposes of the acquisition accounting, the share purchases during the year have been treated as occurring simultaneously.
The provisional fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Falconbridge as at the date of acquisition were: IFRS Fair Provisional carrying value fair value US$m value adjustments to Group Intangible assets 113 154 267 Property, plant and equipment 6,437 12,255 18,692 Inventories 2,340 34 2,306 Trade and other receivables 1,380 8 1,372 Investments in associates 39 95 134 Available-for-sale financial assets 140 140 Derivative financial assets 56 56 Other financial assets 125 125 Prepayments 61 61 10,691 12,462 23,153 Trade and other payables 1,827 23 1,804 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 3,765 35 3,800 Derivative financial liabilities 125 125 Provisions 848 391 1,239 Pension deficit 235 235 Deferred tax liabilities 393 2,688 3,081 Income tax payable 326 13 339 Net assets 3,172 9,358 12,530 Minority interests 45 45 Net attributable assets 3,127 9,358 12,485 Goodwill 2,859 2,859 Net attributable assets including goodwill 3,127 12,217 15,344 168 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 7.
Acquisitions continued IFRS Fair Provisional carrying value fair value US$m value adjustments to Group Total consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 879 Acquisition costs 68 Cash paid for 19.9% acquired in 2005 1,715 Cash paid for 80.1% acquired in 2006 17,036 17,940 Goodwill arising on acquisition on 19.9% interest in Falconbridge in 2005: Cash paid 1,715 Less fair value of the 19.9% share of the attributable net assets acquired 1,715 Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition on 80.1% interest in Falconbridge in 2006: 80.1% of net cash acquired with the subsidiary 704 Acquisition costs 68 Cash paid 17,036 16,400 Less 80.1% share of the attributable net assets acquired 12,291 Goodwill on 80.1% acquisition 4,109 Goodwill from above 2,859 Total goodwill 6,968 This goodwill balance is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the assets and liabilities and their tax bases.
In accordance with IFRS, this represents 19.9% of the fair value of the net assets at the date of acquisition in 2005.
Included in this goodwill are certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated or reliably measured from the acquisition due to their nature.
These items include the expected value of synergies and an assembled workforce.
These fair values are provisional due to the complexity of the acquisition.
From the date of acquisition, Falconbridge has contributed a profit of $1,024 million prior to the exceptional goodwill impairment expense of $1,378 million to the profit of the Group.
Tavistock TESA Joint Venture On 1 December 2006, the Group agreed to purchase the remaining 50% interest in the Tavistock TESA joint venture in South Africa from its joint venture partner, Total Coal South Africa Pty Ltd for US$49 million refer to note 33.
If all of the above combinations had of taken place at the beginning of the year, the Groups revenue would have been US$26,877 million, EBITDA would have been US$9,860 million, EBIT would have been US$6,381 million and profit would have been US$3,477 million.
Acquisitions continued Prior year business combinations African Carbon Group ACG On 4 January 2005, the Group acquired 100% of the voting shares of a char producer, an input into the ferrochrome production process, ACG comprising African Fine Carbon Pty Limited and African Carbon Producers Pty Limited, unlisted companies situated in South Africa, for a cash consideration of US$64 million.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of ACG as at the date of acquisition were: IFRS Fair Provisional carrying value fair value US$m value adjustments to Group Property, plant and equipment 22 4 26 Inventories 3 3 Trade and other receivables 5 5 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 33 4 37 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 7 7 Deferred tax liabilities 3 3 Income taxes payable 2 2 Trade and other payables 12 12 Net assets 94 13 Goodwill arising on acquisition 51 64 Cost: Cash 63 Acquisition costs 1 Cash paid 64 Cash outflow on acquisition: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 3 Cash paid 64 Net cash outflow 61 Included in goodwill recognised above are supplier contracts and technology which have not been recognised separately as they cannot be accurately valued due to their nature.
The recognition of goodwill also is appropriate because of the synergies obtained as char is used in the ferrochrome production process.
Interests in joint ventures ARM Effective 1 July 2006, the Group concluded an agreement with African Rainbow Minerals Limited ARM, to establish a new black majority owned company, ARM Coal, to be 51% owned by ARM and 49% by Xstrata.
ARM is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and is controlled by historically disadvantaged South Africans HDSAs.
ARM Coal holds a 20% participation share in the Groups existing South African coal business, and a majority 51% interest in the Goedgevonden project, through a joint venture with the Group.
170 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 7.
Acquisitions continued ARM contributed ZAR400 million US$56 million in cash for its 51% shareholding in ARM Coal.
The Group facilitated ARM Coals entry by funding the acquisition of 51% of the Goedgevonden project for ZAR 765 million US$107 million and will provide all the funding required to commission this project.
The Groups funding, including debt allocated to the existing South African coal business, was on preferential terms through the use of interest and capital repayment holidays.
ARM Coal receives a proportion of the cash flows from operations with the balance used to repay debt.
In August 2006, ARM exercised an option to acquire a further 10% direct interest in the Groups coal operations in South Africa, excluding the Goedgevonden project, for ZAR400 million US$56 million.
This provided HDSA with an effective interest in Xstratas South African coal business of 36%.
Mototolo project During 2006, the Mototolo joint venture, the terms of which were agreed with Anglo Platinum in 2005 was completed.
During the first half of 2006, the Group and Kagiso Trust Investments Kagiso formed a black economic empowerment partnership in respect of Xstratas 50% interest in the Mototolo joint venture.
Kagiso acquired 26% of the Groups 50% interest, resulting in Kagiso owning a fully participative 13% interest in the earnings of the Mototolo joint venture.
The Group retained a 37% interest in the Mototolo joint venture.
To acquire this interest, Kagiso agreed to fund the joint venture expenditure costs both incurred and in the future in proportion to its interest.
Pooling and Sharing Venture In 2004, the Group and Merafe Resources Limited formed a ferrochrome Pooling and Sharing Venture.
On 1 July 2006, the Groups participation in the pooled EBITDA changed from 83.0% to 79.5%.
Refer below for further details.
Prior year interests in joint ventures Mototolo project On 3 August 2005, Anglo Platinum and the Group formed the Mototolo Joint Venture to develop a platinum group metals PGM mine and concentrator on the Eastern Limb of the Bushveld Complex in Mpumalanga, South Africa.
This transaction was finalised in 2006.
Anglo Platinum and the Group contributed a similar amount of in-situ PGM reserves and resources.
Anglo Platinum now purchases the Groups 50% share of PGM concentrate for further smelting, refining and marketing.
The Group has constructed a benefication plant at its own cost to process the UG2 chrome tailings arising from the PGM concentrator and purchases Anglo Platinums share of chrome concentrate.
McArthur River Joint Venture On 22 September 2005, the Group agreed to purchase the remaining 25% interest in the McArthur River joint venture in the Northern Territory, Australia, from its Joint Venture partner, ANT Minerals Pty Ltd. ANT Minerals is a consortium comprising Nippon Mining & Metals, Mitsui & Co and Marubeni Corporation.
Pooling and Sharing Venture In 2005, the Group and Merafe Resources Limited Merafe formerly SA Chrome & Alloys Limited, the Groups partner in the ferrochrome Pooling and Sharing Venture PSV, acquired chrome ore reserves and resources from Samancor associated with the Kroondal and Marikana mining areas for a total consideration of US$16 million and US$29 million respectively.
The Groups share of the total consideration was US$30 million for the purchase of 50% of Kroondal and 74% of Marikana mining areas.
In addition, Merafe acquired Samancors 50% stake in the Wonderkop joint venture for a total consideration of ZAR235 million US$38 million.
As a result of these transactions, Merafes participation in the earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA of the enlarged Venture increased to 17% from 16 November 2005 and increased to 20.5% from 1 July 2006 as outlined below.
The Board of Merafe also agreed to participate in the first stage of Project Lion at 20.5%, the Groups new 360,000 tonnes per annum ferrochrome smelter.
The Groups 50% share in the Wonderkop JV was originally excluded from the PSV and has been placed into the PSV, together with Merafes 50% stake acquired from Samancor, effective 16 November 2005.
The Group assisted Merafe in making these acquisitions by providing a loan to fund Merafes share of the Marikana resources, which was repaid on 15 November 2005, and by standing as guarantor for a new loan facility provided to Merafe by the ABSA bank of South Africa refer to note 36, which, together with equity financing, has funded Merafes acquisition of Samancors stake in the Wonderkop JV and the Kroondal resources.
Acquisitions continued The Group had previously established the PSV with Merafe, effective from 1 July 2004.
Under the PSV, the Group and Merafe contribute assets in the ratio as stated in Year 3 onwards below in exchange for the revised participations in the pooled EBITDA as follows: Original PSV Amended PSV Xstrata Merafe Xstrata Merafe Year 1 89.0% 11.0% 89.0% 11.0% Year 2 86.0% 14.0% 83.0% 17.0% Year 3 onwards 82.5% 17.5% 79.5% 20.5% Prior year investments in associates Falconbridge Limited On 14 August 2005, the Group acquired 73,115,756 common shares representing 19.9% of the common shares of Falconbridge from Brookfield Asset Management Brookfield for a consideration of CAD2.0 billion US$1.7 billion, or CAD28 per share, settled by issuing short term promissory note A for US$1,327 million and promissory note B for US$375 million with coupons of 4% per annum.
On 22 August 2005, promissory note A was refinanced by drawing on the US$600 million term loan and the Groups existing syndicated loan facility refer note 28.
On 6 September 2005, promissory note B was replaced by a US$375 million convertible debenture refer note 29.
Following the acquisition of 19.9% from Brookfield, a further 550,240 shares in Falconbridge were acquired for a cash consideration of CAD15 million US$13 million to 5 September 2005, taking the Groups holding to 20%.
This interest was diluted to 19.9% at 31 December 2005 after Falconbridge issued additional share capital.
The Group treated this investment as an associate until 11 October 2005.
Following the announcement of Inco Limiteds proposed friendly takeover offer to acquire Falconbridge for CAD34.00 per share on 11 October 2005, equity accounting was ceased as the Group no longer had significant influence over the investment and the investment was classified as an available-for-sale asset refer to note 22.
From the date of acquisition until 11 October 2005, the 20% interest in the Falconbridge contributed US$21 million to the net profit of the Group refer to note 20.
172 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 8.
Discontinued operations and disposals Disposals Cook Coal Operation On 19 October 2006, the Group disposed of its Cook coal operation to Caledon Resources Limited.
A gain of $16 million was recognised on the disposal refer to note 10.
Prior year disposals Discontinued operations Forestry The wholly owned forestry operation in Chile, Forestal Los Lagos SA FLL was sold on 6 January 2005.
The majority 89% of the operation was purchased by Forestal Valdivia SA, a subsidiary of Forestal Arauco, an integrated private Chilean forestry company.
The remaining 11% was purchased by Forestal del Sur SA, a privately-held forestry trading company.
The disposal proceeds amount to US$24 million.
As a result of the sale, the Group was released from all of its obligations with respect to the US$12 million project debt related to FLL.
A gain of US$4 million was realised upon disposal of the investment in the forestry operation, mainly due to a US$5 million recycled cumulative foreign exchange net gain from foreign currency translation reserve within equity.
There were no other income or expenses during 2005.
As the disposal occurred on 6 January 2005, the only cash flow in respect of this operation in the year ended 31 December 2005 was the disposal proceeds outlined above.
Earnings loss per share from discontinued operations: US$ 2006 2005 Basic earnings per share 0.01 Diluted earnings per share 0.01 9.
Segmental Analysis The Groups primary reporting format is business segments and its secondary format is geographical segments.
The operating businesses are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the products produced, with each segment representing a strategic business unit that offers different products and serves different markets.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The Groups geographical segments are determined by the location of the Groups assets and operations.
Business segments The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups business segments for the years ended 31 December 2006 and 2005.
Segmental Analysis continued For the year ended 31 December Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional US$m items items 2006 items items 2005 Revenue External parties: Coal Thermal 3,019 3,019 2,864 2,864 Coal Coking 598 598 536 536 Coal 3,617 3,617 3,400 3,400 Chrome 748 748 798 798 Platinum 12 12 Vanadium 199 199 318 318 Copper 7,007 7,007 2,008 2,008 Nickel 1,678 1,678 Zinc Lead 3,721 3,721 1,449 1,449 Aluminium 530 530 Technology 120 120 77 77 Revenue continuing operations 17,632 17,632 8,050 8,050 Inter-segmental: Coal 3 3 Copper 23 23 Nickel 41 41 Zinc Lead 59 59 Eliminations 126 126 17,632 17,632 8,050 8,050 174 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Segmental Analysis continued Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional US$m Items items 2006 items items 2005 Profit before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA Coal Thermal 947 16 963 1,066 1,066 Coal Coking 300 300 278 278 Coal 1,247 16 1,263 1,344 1,344 Chrome 141 141 169 169 Platinum 11 11 Vanadium 111 111 181 181 Copper 3,349 3,349 1,131 1,131 Nickel 788 788 Zinc Lead 1,477 1,477 303 303 Aluminium 123 123 Technology 26 26 14 14 Unallocated 170 13 157 62 10 72 Segment EBITDA continuing operations 7,103 29 7,132 3,080 10 3,070 Share of results from associates net of tax, continuing operations : Coal 2 2 2 2 Copper 16 16 Zinc Lead 2 2 Unallocated 5 5 EBITDA continuing operations 7,107 29 7,136 3,103 10 3,093 Profit on sale of discontinued operations: Forestry 4 4 Total 7,107 29 7,136 3,103 6 3,097 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 175 9.
Segmental Analysis continued Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional US$m Items items 2006 items items 2005 Depreciation and amortisation Depreciation: Coal 356 356 266 266 Chrome 23 23 24 24 Vanadium 6 6 6 6 Copper 495 495 209 209 Nickel 162 162 Zinc Lead 149 149 63 63 Aluminium 25 25 Technology 1 1 1 1 Unallocated 4 4 2 2 Depreciation continuing operations 1,221 1,221 571 571 Amortisation: Coal 1 1 1 1 Copper 4 4 Nickel 12 12 Zinc Lead 1 1 1 1 Technology 3 3 3 3 Unallocated 2 2 2 2 Total continuing operations 23 23 7 7 Total: Coal 357 357 267 267 Chrome 23 23 24 24 Vanadium 6 6 6 6 Copper 499 499 209 209 Nickel 174 174 Zinc Lead 150 150 64 64 Aluminium 25 25 Technology 4 4 4 4 Unallocated 6 6 4 4 Depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations 1,244 1,244 578 578 Impairment of assets Chrome 3 3 Copper 598 598 2 2 Zinc Lead 780 780 Total impairment of assets continuing operations 1,378 1,378 5 5 176 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Segmental Analysis continued at at 31 December 31 December US$m 2006 2005 Total assets Before tax assets and investments in associates: Coal 8,860 6,218 Chrome 1,146 1,106 Platinum 108 Vanadium 170 214 Copper 19,339 2,953 Nickel 8,359 Zinc Lead 6,365 1,831 Aluminium 1,916 Technology 104 73 Unallocated 648 2,373 Total segmental assets continuing operations 47,015 14,768 Deferred tax assets: Chrome 2 2 Copper 6 Zinc Lead 8 3 Aluminium 4 Unallocated 2 2 Total continuing operations 22 7 Investment in associates: Coal 48 44 Zinc Lead 131 Total continuing operations 179 44 Total assets Coal 8,908 6,262 Chrome 1,148 1,108 Platinum 108 Vanadium 170 214 Copper 19,345 2,953 Nickel 8,359 Zinc Lead 6,504 1,834 Aluminium 1,920 Technology 104 73 Unallocated 650 2,375 Total assets from continuing operations 47,216 14,819 2005 amounts include available-for-sale financial assets not directly attributable to business segments.
2006 amounts include corporate assets not directly attributable to business segments.
178 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Segmental Analysis continued at at 31 December 31 December US$m 2006 2005 Total liabilities Before tax liabilities, interest bearing loans and borrowings: Coal 740 533 Chrome 106 94 Platinum 37 Vanadium 24 79 Copper 2,026 344 Nickel 706 Zinc Lead 1,113 525 Aluminium 225 Technology 55 22 Unallocated 773 269 Total segmental liabilities continuing operations 5,805 1,866 Tax liabilities, interest bearing loans and borrowings : Coal 1,826 1,271 Chrome 144 288 Vanadium 6 Copper 3,334 624 Nickel 1,109 Zinc Lead 664 126 Aluminium 382 Technology 3 6 Unallocated 14,227 2,495 Total tax liabilities, interest bearing loans and borrowings continuing operations 21,689 4,816 Total liabilities Coal 2,566 1,804 Chrome 250 382 Platinum 37 Vanadium 24 86 Copper 5,360 967 Nickel 1,815 Zinc Lead 1,777 651 Aluminium 607 Technology 58 28 Unallocated 15,000 2,764 Total liabilities from continuing operations 27,494 6,682 These liabilities are included in Interest-bearing loans and borrowings, convertible borrowings, deferred tax liabilities and Income taxes payable line items in the balance sheet.
Segmental Analysis continued at at 31 December 31 December US$m 2006 2005 Net assets Before tax assets and liabilities, investment in associates, interest bearing loans and borrowings: Coal 8,120 5,685 Chrome 1,040 1,012 Platinum 71 Vanadium 146 135 Copper 17,313 2,609 Nickel 7,653 Zinc Lead 5,252 1,306 Aluminium 1,691 Technology 49 51 Unallocated 125 2,104 Total segmental net assets continuing operations 41,210 12,902 Deferred tax assets, tax liabilities, interest bearing loans and borrowings: Coal 1,826 1,271 Chrome 142 286 Vanadium 6 Copper 3,328 624 Nickel 1,109 Zinc Lead 656 123 Aluminium 378 Technology 3 6 Unallocated 14,225 2,493 Total continuing operations 21,667 4,809 Investment in associates: Coal 48 44 Zinc Lead 131 Total continuing operations 179 44 Net assets Coal 6,342 4,459 Chrome 898 726 Platinum 71 Vanadium 146 128 Copper 13,985 1,985 Nickel 6,544 Zinc Lead 4,727 1,183 Aluminium 1,313 Technology 46 45 Unallocated 14,350 389 Net assets from continuing operations 19,722 8,137 2005 amounts include available-for-sale financial assets not directly attributable to business segments.
2006 amounts include corporate assets and liabilities not directly attributable to business segments.
180 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Segmental Analysis continued US$m 2006 2005 Capital expenditure Sustaining: Coal 226 188 Chrome 36 26 Vanadium 4 9 Copper 191 115 Nickel 68 Zinc Lead 114 89 Aluminium 18 Technology 1 1 Unallocated 4 2 Total sustaining continuing operations 662 430 Expansionary: Coal 289 281 Chrome 161 161 Platinum 58 Vanadium 1 7 Copper 159 36 Nickel 87 Zinc Lead 158 32 Aluminium 4 Technology 1 Total expansionary continuing operations 918 517 Total: Coal 515 469 Chrome 197 187 Platinum 58 Vanadium 5 16 Copper 350 151 Nickel 155 Zinc Lead 272 121 Aluminium 22 Technology 2 1 Unallocated 4 2 Total from continuing operations 1,580 947 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 181 9.
Segmental Analysis continued The average number of employees, which includes Executive Directors and excludes contractors, during the year was as follows: 2006 2005 Coal 7,797 6,762 Chrome 6,374 4,408 Platinum 464 Vanadium 530 363 Copper 5,619 3,256 Nickel 1,586 Zinc Lead 4,562 2,742 Aluminium 1,125 Technology 65 56 Unallocated 77 41 Total continuing operations 28,198 17,628 The average number of contractors during the year was as follows: Coal 5,378 4,061 Chrome 3,912 500 Platinum 227 Vanadium 1,177 75 Copper 3,135 1,018 Nickel 310 Zinc Lead 1,511 768 Aluminium 160 Technology 61 41 Total 15,882 6,463 182 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Segmental Analysis continued Geographical segments The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups geographical segments for the years ended 31 December 2006 and 2005.
Segmental Analysis continued Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional US$m items items 2006 items items 2005 EBITDA Africa 439 439 620 620 Americas North 1,271 1,271 Americas South 2,493 2,493 544 544 Australasia 2,520 16 2,536 1,800 1,800 Europe 550 550 178 178 Unallocated 170 13 157 62 10 72 Segment EBITDA continuing operations 7,103 29 7,132 3,080 10 3,070 Share of results from associates net of tax, continuing operations : Australasia 2 2 2 2 Americas North 2 2 Americas South 16 16 Unallocated 5 5 EBITDA continuing operations 7,107 29 7,136 3,103 10 3,093 Profit on sale of discontinued operations: Americas South 4 4 Total 7,107 29 7,136 3,103 6 3,097 184 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Segmental Analysis continued Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional US$m items items 2006 items items 2005 Depreciation and amortisation Depreciation: Africa 106 106 107 107 Americas North 297 297 Americas South 392 392 103 103 Australasia 386 386 324 324 Europe 36 36 35 35 Unallocated 4 4 2 2 Depreciation continuing operations 1,221 1,221 571 571 Amortisation: Americas North 13 13 Americas South 3 3 Australasia 4 4 4 4 Europe 1 1 1 1 Unallocated 2 2 2 2 Amortisation continuing operations 23 23 7 7 Total: Africa 106 106 107 107 Americas North 310 310 Americas South 395 395 103 103 Australasia 390 390 328 328 Europe 37 37 36 36 Unallocated 6 6 4 4 Depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations 1,244 1,244 578 578 Impairment of assets Africa 3 3 Americas South 2 2 Unallocated 1,378 1,378 Total impairment of assets continuing operations 1,378 1,378 5 5 Represented by: Copper Americas 598 598 Zinc Lead 780 780 1,378 1,378 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 185 9.
Segmental Analysis continued Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional US$m items items 2006 Items items 2005 EBIT Segment result: Africa 333 333 510 510 Americas North 961 961 Americas South 2,098 2,098 439 439 Australasia 2,130 2,130 1,472 1,472 Europe 513 513 142 142 Unallocated 176 1,349 1,525 66 10 76 Segment EBIT continuing operations 5,859 1,349 4,510 2,497 10 2,487 Share of results from associates net of tax, continuing operations : Australasia 2 2 2 2 Americas North 2 2 Americas South 16 16 Unallocated 5 5 EBIT continuing operations 5,863 1,349 4,514 2,520 10 2,510 Finance income 112 170 282 36 88 124 Finance expense 646 235 881 128 44 172 Profit before taxation 5,329 1,414 3,915 2,428 34 2,462 Income tax expense 1,574 11 1,563 551 8 543 Profit from continuing operations 3,755 1,403 2,352 1,877 42 1,919 Profit on sale of discontinued operations: Americas South 44 Total 3,755 1,403 2,352 1,877 46 1,923 186 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Segmental Analysis continued at at 31 December 31 December US$m 2006 2005 Total assets Before tax assets and investment in associates: Africa 3,761 3,415 Americas North 12,651 Americas South 17,632 1,460 Australasia 7,668 6,194 Europe 1,924 1,326 Unallocated 3,379 2,373 Total segmental assets continuing operations 47,015 14,768 Deferred tax assets: Africa 2 2 Americas North 10 Europe 8 3 Unallocated 2 2 Total continuing operations 22 7 Investment in associates: Africa 2 1 Americas North 131 Australasia 46 43 Total continuing operations 179 44 Total assets Africa 3,765 3,418 Americas North 12,792 Americas South 17,632 1,460 Australasia 7,714 6,237 Europe 1,932 1,329 Unallocated 3,381 2,375 Total continuing operations 47,216 14,819 2005 includes available-for-sale financial assets not directly attributable to geographical segments.
2006 amounts include corporate assets and goodwill not directly attributable to geographical segments.
Segmental Analysis continued at at 31 December 31 December US$m 2006 2005 Total liabilities Before tax liabilities, interest bearing loans and borrowings: Africa 385 321 Americas North 2,329 Americas South 883 83 Australasia 971 864 Europe 464 329 Unallocated 773 269 Total segmental liabilities continuing operations 5,805 1,866 Tax liabilities, interest bearing loans and borrowings: Africa 756 777 Americas North 1,486 Americas South 3,665 369 Australasia 1,431 1,133 Europe 124 42 Unallocated 14,227 2,495 Total continuing operations 21,689 4,816 Total liabilities Africa 1,141 1,098 Americas North 3,815 Americas South 4,548 452 Australasia 2,402 1,997 Europe 588 371 Unallocated 15,000 2,764 Total continuing operations 27,494 6,682 188 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Segmental Analysis continued at at 31 December 31 December US$m 2006 2005 Net assets Before tax assets and liabilities, investment in associates, interest bearing loans and borrowings: Africa 3,376 3,094 Americas North 10,322 Americas South 16,749 1,377 Australasia 6,697 5,330 Europe 1,460 997 Unallocated 2,606 2,104 Total segmental net assets continuing operations 41,210 12,902 Tax assets and liabilities, interest bearing loans and borrowings: Africa 754 775 Americas North 1,476 Americas South 3,665 369 Australasia 1,431 1,133 Europe 116 39 Unallocated 14,225 2,493 Total continuing operations 21,667 4,809 Investment in associates: Africa 2 1 Americas North 131 Australasia 46 43 Total continuing operations 179 44 Net assets Africa 2,624 2,320 Americas North 8,977 Americas South 13,084 1,008 Australasia 5,312 4,240 Europe 1,344 958 Unallocated 11,619 389 Total continuing operations 19,722 8,137 2005 includes available-for-sale financial assets not directly attributable to geographical segments.
2006 amounts include corporate assets and goodwill not directly attributable to geographical segments Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 189 9.
Segmental Analysis continued US$m 2006 2005 Capital expenditure Sustaining: Africa 99 94 Americas North 100 Americas South 105 21 Australasia 324 284 Europe 30 28 Unallocated 4 3 Total sustaining continuing operations 662 430 Expansionary: Africa 326 175 Americas North 83 Americas South 80 14 Australasia 406 315 Europe 23 13 Total expansionary continuing operations 918 517 Total: Africa 425 269 Americas North 183 Americas South 185 35 Australasia 730 599 Europe 53 42 Unallocated 4 2 Total continuing operations 1,580 947 The average number of employees, which includes Executive Directors and excludes contractors, during the year was as follows: 2006 2005 Africa 11,494 8,936 Americas North 3,728 Americas South 4,311 1,192 Australasia 6,832 5,803 Europe 1,692 1,656 Unallocated 141 41 Total continuing operations 28,198 17,628 The average number of contractors during the year was as follows: 2006 2005 Africa 7,621 2,676 Americas North 390 Americas South 3,795 328 Australasia 3,682 3,163 Europe 394 296 Total 15,882 6,463 190 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 10.
Revenues and Expenses Revenue and expenses US$m 2006 2005 Revenue sales of goods 17,632 8,050 Less cost of sales after depreciation and amortisation and impairment of assets 10,098 4,434 Gross profit 7,534 3,616 Administrative expenses after depreciation and amortisation and impairment of assets 1,912 209 Inventory recognised as an expense 10,098 4,368 Operating lease rental expense minimum lease payments 34 21 Royalties paid 391 231 Research and development 4 1 Depreciation and amortisation US$m 2006 2005 Depreciation of owned assets 1,207 561 Depreciation of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 14 10 Total depreciation 1,221 571 Amortisation of intangible assets 23 7 Total depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations 1,244 578 Employee costs including Directors emoluments refer to the Remuneration report on pages 136 to 139 for details US$m 2006 2005 Wages and salaries 1,181 718 Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs refer to note 35 112 81 Social security and other benefits 51 47 Share-based compensation plans refer to note 35 91 31 Employee costs from continuing operations 1,435 877 Impairment of property, plant and equipment US$m 2006 2005 Chrome Africa 3 Copper Americas 2 5 The impairment of assets in 2005 relates to the write down of uneconomic exploration costs and mineral resources included in capital works in progress and mining properties and leases following further geological studies in South America and South Africa indicated that such assets were not recoverable.
Revenues and Expenses continued Auditors remuneration US$m 2006 2005 Auditors remuneration a : Group auditors UK 1 1 Group auditors overseas 9 4 10 5 Amounts paid to auditors for other work: Group auditors b Corporate finance transactions c 12 5 Taxation d 2 2 Other e 1 1 15 8 Other audit firms Internal audit 1 1 Other f 4 3 5 4 a The Group audit fee includes US$40,000 2005 US$50,000 in respect of the parent company.
b Included in other fees to auditors is US$1 million 2005 US$1 million relating to the Company and its UK subsidiaries.
c 2006 includes amounts incurred on the acquisitions of Cerrejn, Tintaya and Falconbridge.
Of this amount US$10 million has been capitalised as acquisition costs refer to note 7.
2005 includes amounts spent on the proposed acquisition of WMC, and other potential transactions.
d Includes corporate tax compliance and advisory services.
e Primarily relates to accounting advice and non-statutory assurance services.
f Includes tax advisory services, accounting assistance and acquisition due diligence.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 115 to 125 details the Groups policy with regard to the independence and objectivity of the external and internal auditors and the provision and approval of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
Finance income US$m 2006 2005 Bank interest 93 20 Dividends 3 9 Interest other 16 7 Finance income before exceptional items 112 36 Foreign currency gains on bank loans 120 Recycled gains from the foreign currency translation reserve 50 88 Exceptional finance income 170 88 Total finance income 282 124 192 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 10.
Revenues and Expenses continued Finance costs US$m 2006 2005 Amortisation of loan issue costs 9 2 Convertible borrowings amortised cost charge 8 10 Discount unwinding 40 14 Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 17 7 Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 398 43 Interest on convertible borrowings and capital market notes 142 38 Interest on minority interest loans 6 6 Interest on preference shares 12 Unrealised loss on interest rate swap 2 Interest other 14 6 Finance cost before exceptional items 646 128 Foreign currency losses on bank loans 129 Recycled losses from the foreign currency translation reserve 97 27 Loan issue costs written-off on facility refinancing 9 17 Exceptional finance cost 235 44 Total finance cost 881 172 These costs relate to foreign currency gains and losses on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies, predominantly CAD.
Total interest income and expense calculated using the effective interest method for financial assets and liabilities not at fair value through the profit and loss are US$112 million 2005 US$36 million and US$598 million 2005 US$122 million respectively.
Exceptional Items Restructuring and closure costs Restructuring and redundancy costs of US$50 million 2005 US$nil relate to the former Falconbridge Group following its acquisition.
Acquisition costs The Group made a cash offer to purchase the entire share capital of WMC Resources Limited, an Australian listed diversified mining company in October 2004.
In March 2005 BHP Billiton Limited announced a higher cash offer and the Group announced it would not increase its offer price.
The Group incurred acquisition costs of US$10 million and US$17 million of financing costs in relation to the offer for WMC Resources Limited.
The tax credit attributable to the costs incurred is US$8 million.
Revenues and Expenses continued Impairment of Goodwill The acquisition of Falconbridge was completed in two stages.
The Group acquired 19.9% of Falconbridge at CAD28 per share in 2005, before acquiring the remaining 80.1% in 2006 at a price of CAD62.50 per share.
The average price paid per share for the 100% interest was CAD56.44.
The Groups ability to average the purchase price paid for the second tranche of shares over the full purchase provided the Group with a compelling competitive advantage and was a significant factor in the success of the transaction.
Under IFRS, this advantage cannot be recognised, as goodwill is calculated separately for each transaction, regardless of the average price paid per share to acquire the 100% interest.
This accounting treatment has resulted in the creation of additional goodwill of US$1.5 billion.
The Group has completed a detailed fair value assessment of the assets acquired and, in accordance with IFRS, tested goodwill for impairment.
As a consequence, the Company has determined that an impairment charge of US$1,378 million is appropriate refer to note 15.
Profit on sale of available-for-sale financial assets US$m 2006 2005 Unallocated 63 63 Listed shares were sold for a consideration of US$190 million in 2006.
Profit on sale of operations US$m 2006 2005 Coal Australia 16 16 On 19 October 2006, the Group disposed of its Cook coal operation in Australia to Caledon Resources Limited.
A gain of US$16 million was recognised on the disposal refer to note 8.
194 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 11.
Income Taxes Income tax charge Significant components of income tax expense for the years ended: US$m 2006 2005 Consolidated income statement Current tax: Based on taxable income of the current year 1,387 499 Prior year over provision 1 13 Total current taxation charge for the year 1,386 486 Deferred taxation: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 144 81 Change in tax rates 6 21 Benefit from previously unrecognised tax losses, tax credits or temporary differences of a prior year that are used to reduce deferred tax expense 4 1 Benefit from entry into the Australian tax consolidation regime 2 Prior year under provision 43 Total deferred taxation charge credit for the year 177 57 Total taxation charge 1,563 543 Total taxation charge reported in consolidated income statement 1,563 543 Income tax attributable to discontinued operations Total taxation charge 1,563 543 UK taxation included above: Current tax 2 1 Deferred tax 4 Total taxation charge credit 2 1 Recognised directly in equity Deferred tax: Available-for-sale financial assets 75 83 Cash flow hedges 16 59 Other equity classified items 44 18 Total taxation charge credit reported in equity 15 6 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 195 11.
Income Taxes continued A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to accounting profit before income tax at the weighted average statutory income tax rate to income tax expense at the Group average effective income tax rate for the years ended is as follows: US$m 2006 2005 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 3,915 2,462 Profit before taxation from discontinued operations 4 Profit before taxation 3,915 2,466 At average statutory income tax rate 24.3% 2005 24.2% 950 598 Goodwill impairment 455 Additional mining taxes 50 Foreign currency gains and losses 67 5 Non-deductible expenses 30 7 Rebatable dividends received 8 1 Research and development allowances 17 31 Change in tax rates 6 21 Benefit from entry into the Australian tax consolidation regime 2 Prior year under over provision 43 13 Other 1 1 At average effective income tax rate 1,563 543 Total taxation charge reported in consolidated income statement 1,563 543 Income tax attributable to discontinued operations At average effective income tax rate 1,563 543 The above reconciling items are disclosed at the tax rates that apply in the country where they have arisen.
The average statutory income tax rate is the average of the standard income tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profit loss before tax of the subsidiaries in the respective countries as included in the consolidated accounts.
The change in the average statutory income tax rate is due to the variation in the weight of subsidiaries profits by various changes in the enacted standard income tax rates and due to the acquisition of subsidiaries in countries with different tax rates.
Deferred income taxes Deferred tax assets are recognised for the carry-forward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the unused tax losses credits can be utilised.
Unrecognised tax losses The Group has tax losses that are available indefinitely of US$8 million 2005 US$9 million to carry forward against future taxable income of the companies in which the losses arose.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as they may not be used to offset taxable profits elsewhere in the Group and they have arisen in subsidiaries that have been loss-making for some time.
There are no other deductible temporary differences that have not been not recognised at balance sheet date.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments At 31 December 2006, there was no recognised deferred tax liability 2005 US$nil for taxes that would be payable on the un-remitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures as: The Group has determined that undistributed profits of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future: The profits of the associates will not be distributed until it obtains the consent of the Group: and The investments are not held for resale and are expected to be recouped by continued use of these operations by the subsidiaries.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, for which deferred tax assets have not been recognised amount to US$2,608 million 2005 US$315 million.
196 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 11.
Income Taxes continued There are no income tax consequences for the Group attaching to the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders.
The deferred tax assets liabilities included in the balance sheet is as follows: US$m 2006 2005 Tax losses 78 73 Derivative financial instruments 35 77 Employee provisions 65 49 Other provisions 65 15 Rehabilitation and closure 120 67 Research and development pools 209 Accelerated depreciation 5,289 1,200 Coal export rights 253 300 Other intangibles 31 10 Government grants 13 15 Deferred stripping 49 36 Available-for-sale financial assets 7 83 Other equity related items 3 18 Other 29 13 5,102 1,332 Represented on the face of the balance sheet as: Deferred tax assets 22 7 Deferred tax liabilities 5,124 1,339 5,102 1,332 The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: US$m 2006 2005 Tax losses 118 106 Accelerated depreciation 95 11 Deferred stripping 17 26 Rehabilitation and closure 29 6 Employee provisions 5 4 Other provisions 2 6 Other 17 56 From continuing operations 177 57 From discontinued operations 177 57 Tax audits The company periodically assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
For those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the company recorded its best estimate of the tax liability, including related interest charges, in the current tax liability.
Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax laws.
Whilst management believes they have adequately provided for the probable outcome of these matters, future results may include favourable or unfavourable adjustments to these estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made, or resolved, or when the status of limitation lapses.
The final outcome of tax examinations may result in a materially different outcome than assumed in the tax liabilities.
Earnings Per Share US$m 2006 2005 Continuing operations: Profit before exceptional items attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 3,350 1,660 Exceptional items from continuing operations 1,403 42 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 1,947 1,702 Interest in respect of convertible borrowings 38 41 Convertible borrowings interest rate swap fair value hedge movement 1 19 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent for diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 1,984 1,724 Total operations: Profit before exceptional items attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 3,350 1,660 Exceptional items from continuing operations 1,403 42 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 1,947 1,702 Profit loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from discontinued operations 4 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 1,947 1,706 Interest in respect of convertible borrowings 38 41 Convertible borrowings interest rate swap fair value hedge movement 1 19 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent for diluted earnings per share 1,984 1,728 Weighted average number of shares 000 excluding own shares: For basic earnings per share 771,820 684,196 Effect of dilution: Free shares and share options 000 9,441 5,394 Convertible borrowings 50,294 73,695 For diluted earnings per share 831,555 763,285 Basic earnings per share US$ Continuing operations: before exceptional items 4.34 2.42 exceptional items 1.82 0.06 2.52 2.48 Discontinued operations: before exceptional items exceptional items 0.01 0.01 Total: before exceptional items 4.34 2.42 exceptional items 1.82 0.07 2.52 2.49 Diluted earnings per share US$ Continuing operations: before exceptional items 4.07 2.20 exceptional items 1.68 0.06 2.39 2.26 Discontinued operations: before exceptional items exceptional items 0.01 0.01 Total: before exceptional items 4.07 2.20 exceptional items 1.68 0.07 2.39 2.27 198 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 12.
Earnings Per Share continued Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the year, excluding own shares.
Adjustments are made for continuing and discontinued operations and before exceptional items and after exceptional items as outlined above, to present a meaningful basis for analysis.
Diluted earnings per share is based on basic earnings per share adjusted for the potential dilution if Director and employee free shares and share options are exercised and the convertible bonds and debentures are converted into ordinary shares.
An adjustment is also made to net profit for the interest in respect of the convertible borrowings and related hedging.
On 30 October 2006, 235,787,596 ordinary shares were issued under a rights issue which was structured as an issue of one new ordinary share at a price of GBP 12.65 per share for every three existing ordinary shares held.
The theoretical ex-rights price for an ordinary share was GBP19.51.
The 2005 comparative earnings per share have been restated after applying a factor of 0.9 in order to adjust for the bonus element of the rights issue and the 2006 figures have also been adjusted for this bonus element.
On 31 January 2007, a further 4 million ordinary shares were issued by the Company to the ESOP refer to note 26.
In February 2007, 22,832,325 ordinary shares were issued as a result of conversions by the holders of the Convertible Bonds refer to note 29.
The 2006 earnings per share figures would not be significantly different had these shares been issued during in 2006.
Dividends Paid and Proposed US$m 2006 2005 Declared and paid during the year: Final dividend for 2005 22.4 cents per ordinary share 2004 14.3 cents per ordinary share 159 100 Interim dividend for 2006 11.6 cents per ordinary share 2005 8.1 cents per ordinary share 92 54 251 154 Proposed for approval at the Annual General Meeting not recognised as a liability as at 31 December : Final dividend for 2006 30 cents per ordinary share 2005 22.4 cents per ordinary share 281 150 Dividends declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006 will be paid on 18 May 2007.
As stated in note 26, own shares held in the ESOP and by the ECMP have waived the right to receive dividends.
The dividends per share declared and paid prior to 30 October 2006 have been adjusted by the rights issue bonus adjustment factor of 0.9 refer to note 12.
Intangible Assets Computer Export Technology software & US$m rights Goodwill patents development Other 2006 At 1 January 2006 1,130 229 53 16 2 1,430 Acquisitions 7,557 7 260 7,824 Additions 16 16 Amortisation charge 3 6 14 23 Disposals 26 26 Impairment charge 1,378 1,378 Translation adjustments 96 14 3 1 2 76 At 31 December 2006 1,008 6,422 53 34 250 7,767 At 1 January 2006: Cost 1,130 229 60 25 2 1,446 Accumulated amortisation 7 9 16 Net carrying amount 1,130 229 53 16 2 1,430 At 31 December 2006: Cost 1,008 7,801 64 47 264 9,184 Accumulated amortisation 1,379 11 13 14 1,417 Net carrying amount 1,008 6,422 53 34 250 7,767 Purchased as part of business combinations Computer Export Technology software & US$m rights Goodwill patents development Other 2005 At 1 January 2005 1,245 211 59 7 2 1,524 Acquisitions 51 51 Additions 13 13 Amortisation charge 3 4 7 Translation adjustments 115 33 3 151 At 31 December 2005 1,130 229 53 16 2 1,430 At 1 January 2005: Cost 1,245 211 64 12 12 1,544 Accumulated amortisation 5 5 10 20 Net carrying amount 1,245 211 59 7 2 1,524 At 31 December 2005: Cost 1,130 229 60 25 2 1,446 Accumulated amortisation 7 9 16 Net carrying amount 1,130 229 53 16 2 1,430 Purchased as part of business combinations 200 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 14.
Intangible Assets continued The Group has a 20.91% interest in the service organisation, Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited, acquired in a business combination, through which the shareholders gain access to export markets enabling them to realise higher coal sales prices than in the domestic market.
Previously, the Directors regarded the right to export coal afforded by the interest in the terminal to have an indefinite life, as the operations utilising the terminal had appropriate reserves including undeveloped reserves to allow the use of the terminal for an indefinite period.
Further, the land on which the terminal operates is leased on a long term basis from the state owned ports authority.
There has been a history of lease renewal and extension by Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited and it is the intention to continually renew the long term lease.
Accordingly, these coal export rights have not been amortised but have been subject to an annual impairment review.
In light of the approval of the Goedgevonden project subsequent to year end, the Directors reassessed whether it is still appropriate to treat this as an indefinite life asset and has concluded that it would be appropriate to begin amortisation prospectively in 2007 based on an updated estimate of its useful lives.
The Group acquired the right to market to third parties various leading technologies for the mining, mineral processing and metals extraction industries, in a business combination.
The technology patents are amortised over their useful economic lives of 20 years to June 2023.
Computer software and software development is being amortised over their useful economic lives of three years.
Other intangible assets is mainly comprised of a long-term feed contract held by the Groups nickel business unit.
This contract is being amortised over its remaining six year contract term.
The disposal of a portion of the export rights which occurred during 2006 was the result of the transaction with ARM refer to note 7.
Impairment Testing Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangibles Export rights US$m 2006 2005 Coal export rights carrying value: Coal Africa 1,008 1,130 As outlined in note 14 during 2006, the Groups export right asset was deemed to have an indefinite life.
For the purpose of impairment testing, this asset has been allocated to the Coal Africa Cash-generating unit.
Impairment testing is undertaken annually, and whenever there are indicators of impairment.
The most recent test was undertaken at 31 December 2006 and in assessing the asset for impairment, the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit has been compared with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of the coal export rights in Africa has been determined based on a value-in-use calculation.
Value-in-use is based on cash flows expected to be generated by the mines that rely on the coal export right.
Such cash flows are projected for a period up to the date that mining ceases, based on managements current expectation.
This date depends on a number of variables, including the recoverable reserves and the forecast selling price for such production.
Cash flows have been projected for a maximum of 36 years 2005: 40 years.
Impairment Testing Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangibles continued Goodwill Goodwill has been allocated to the following reportable segments, or when appropriate to a lower level of cash-generating unit, which are expected to benefit from the asset.
The carrying values of goodwill by cash generating unit are as follows: US$m 2006 2005 Coal Colombia 464 Chrome Africa 46 51 Copper Americas 1,185 Copper Americas North 257 Copper Americas South 1,252 Nickel Americas North 589 Nickel Americas South 213 Nickel Africa 45 Nickel Australasia 46 Zinc Lead 1,546 Zinc Lead Americas North 194 Zinc Lead Americas South 160 Zinc Lead Australasia 9 Zinc Lead Europe 198 178 Aluminium Americas North 218 6,422 229 Net of the impairment loss discussed below.
The goodwill recognised in 2006 arose on the Cerrejn, Tintaya and Falconbridge acquisitions refer to note 7.
As outlined in Note 7, the US$464 million goodwill recognised on the Cerrejn acquisition and the US$125 recognised Tintaya acquisition, relate to the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability, calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired and their tax bases.
US$6,968 million goodwill was recognised on the Falconbridge acquisition refer to note 7.
Of this amount US$2,859 million relates to the requirement to create a deferred tax liability, whilst US$4,109 million relates to goodwill recognised on the acquisition of 80.1% of the company in 2006.
The Group performs goodwill impairment testing on an annual basis and when there are indicators of impairment.
The most recent test was undertaken at 31 December 2006.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit or reportable segment is compared with its recoverable amount.
For the purpose of goodwill impairment testing, recoverable amounts have been determined based on value in use calculations.
Value in use is based on the cash flows expected to be generated from mines, smelting and refining operations included within the cash-generating units or reportable segments.
Cash flows are projected for periods up to the date mining and refining ceases based on managements current expectations.
This date depends on a number of variables, including recoverable reserves and resources, the forecast selling prices for such production and the treatment charges received from the refining operations.
Cash flows have been projected for a maximum of 21 years 2005: 20 years.
202 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 15.
Impairment Testing Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangibles continued Key assumptions The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations for goodwill and the export right asset are: recoverable reserves and resources: commodity prices: treatment charges receivable by smelting and refining operations: and discount rates.
As outlined above, economically recoverable reserves and resources are based on managements current expectation, based on the availability of reserves at mine sites and exploration and evaluation work undertaken by appropriately qualified persons.
Long-term commodity prices and treatment charges are based on external market consensus forecasts.
Specific prices are determined from information available in the market after considering the nature of the commodity produced and long term market expectations.
Discount rates utilised are outlined below, and represent the nominal pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating unit or reportable segment for which cash flows have not been adjusted.
These rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital specific to each cash-generating unit or reportable segment and the currency of the cash flows generated.
These rates have been calculated with reference to information from third party advisors.
2006 2005 Coal South Africa 10.2% 11.3% Chrome Africa 11.1% 13.2% Copper Americas 17.2% Zinc Lead 13.3% Zinc Lead Europe 13.6% 8.7% Impairment losses The impairment losses recognised as an exceptional item in the income statement relates to the following: US$m 2006 2005 Goodwill: Copper Americas 598 Zinc Lead 780 1,378 The acquisition of Falconbridge was completed in two stages.
Xstrata acquired 19.9% of Falconbridge at CAD28 per share in 2005, before acquiring the remaining 80.1% in 2006 at a price of CAD62.50 per share.
Xstratas ability to average the purchase price paid for the second tranche of shares over the full purchase provided Xstrata with a compelling competitive advantage and was a significant factor in the success of the transaction.
Under IFRS, this advantage cannot be recognised, as goodwill is calculated separately for each transaction.
Xstrata has completed a detailed fair value assessment of the assets acquired and, in accordance with IFRS, tested goodwill for impairment.
As a consequence, the company has determined that an impairment charge of US$1,378 million is appropriate.
Impairment Testing Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangibles continued Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Management is of the opinion that no reasonably possible change in the key assumptions above, would result in an impairment expense being recognised, except in relation to goodwill Copper Americas and goodwill Zinc Lead.
As a result of the impairment expense above, the goodwill allocated to Copper Americas and Zinc Lead, is now recorded at its recoverable amount and therefore any adverse changes in key assumptions would cause a further impairment loss to be recognised.
These key assumptions are discussed below: Recoverable reserves and resources The total recoverable reserve is 1,680 million tonnes of ore and resource is 1,279 million tonnes of ore for Copper Americas.
The total recoverable reserves is 180 tonnes of ore and resource is 563 tonnes of ore for Zinc Lead.
As outlined above this is based on managements current estimate, using appropriate exploration and evaluation techniques.
Commodity prices In performing the value in use calculation for Copper Americas commodity prices have been based on external market consensus forecasts.
The copper prices range from US$1.00 per pound to US$3.28 per pound, varying in accordance with the year the sale is expected to occur.
Treatment charges received from smelting and refining In performing the value in use calculation for Zinc Lead treatment charges have been estimated to be in the range of US$150 to US$250 per tonne for zinc and US$110 per tonne for lead refining fees, based on the year of processing.
As outlined above, these prices are based on external market consensus forecasts.
Commodity prices In performing the value in use calculation for Zinc Lead commodity prices have been based on external market consensus forecasts.
The prices range from US$1,124 to US$3,241 per tonne for zinc and US$639 to US$1,146 per tonne for lead, varying in accordance with the year the sale is expected to occur.
Property, Plant and Equipment continued Land Mining Plant Capital and properties and works in US$m buildings and leases equipment progress 2005 At 1 January 2005, net of accumulated depreciation 667 4,006 3,149 379 8,201 Acquisitions 5 20 25 Additions 26 188 463 329 1,006 Disposals 17 1 4 6 28 Rehabilitation provision adjustments 5 5 Reclassifications 125 40 40 125 Depreciation charge 35 190 346 571 Impairments recognised refer to note 11 4 1 5 Translation adjustments 82 242 198 25 547 At 31 December 2005, net of accumulated depreciation 689 3,722 3,124 551 8,086 At 1 January 2005: Cost 770 4,451 3,997 383 9,601 Accumulated depreciation 103 445 848 4 1,400 Net carrying amount 667 4,006 3,149 379 8,201 At 31 December 2005: Cost 855 4,378 4,132 553 9,918 Accumulated depreciation 166 656 1,008 2 1,832 Net carrying amount 689 3,722 3,124 551 8,086 Land and buildings include non-depreciating freehold land amounting to US$214 million 2005 US$163 million.
Mining properties and leases at 31 December 2006 include capitalised exploration costs of US$245 million 2005 US$19 million and capitalised deferred stripping costs of US$304 million 2005 US$141 million.
US$nil 2005 US$11 million of interest and US$89 million 2005 US$72 million of deferred stripping costs were capitalised during the year.
The carrying value of plant and equipment held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2006 is US$236 million 2005 US$237 million.
Leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance leases and hire purchase liabilities.
The carrying value of other property, plant and equipment pledged as security is US$nil 2005 US$nil.
No interest was capitalised during 2006 or 2005 and there is no capitalised interest within property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2006 and 2005.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2006 that is temporarily idle is US$36 million 2005 US$3 million, retired from active use and held for resale is US$nil 2005 US$nil.
The Group has made commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totalling US$227 million at 31 December 2006 2005 US$107 million.
Biological Assets US$m Cattle 2006 At 1 January 2006 13 13 Net gain loss from fair value less estimated selling cost adjustments 11 Translation adjustments 11 At 31 December 2006 15 15 US$m Cattle Plantations 2005 At 1 January 2005 13 19 32 Additions 2 2 Disposal of subsidiaries 19 19 Disposals 3 3 Net gain loss from fair value less estimated selling cost adjustments 1 1 At 31 December 2005 13 13 Biological assets are stated at fair value less estimated selling costs, which has been determined based on independent valuations as at 31 December 2006 and 2005, on the basis of open market value, supported by market evidence.
As at 31 December 2006, the Group owned 45 thousand 2005: 46 thousand cattle.
The plantation was disposed in January 2005 and had previously been pledged as security against a US$12 million loan that was included as part of the assets and liabilities disposed refer to note 8.
Inventories US$m 2006 2005 Current: Raw materials and consumables 1,294 282 Work in progress 1,377 268 Finished goods 869 341 3,540 891 Non-current: Work in progress 75 71 75 71 Non-current inventories comprises long term ore stockpiles that are not planned to be processed within one year.
Trade and Other Receivables US$m 2006 2005 Current: Trade debtors 2,380 1,033 Advances 115 13 Employee entitlement receivables refer to note 31 5 Recoverable sales tax 282 80 Other debtors 44 12 2,826 1,138 Non-current: Employee entitlement receivables refer to note 31 25 22 Recoverable sales tax 25 20 Other debtors 34 15 84 57 206 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 20.
Investment in Associates As outlined in note 7, the Group obtained control of Falconbridge on 15 August 2006.
For a portion of 2005, the Groups investment in Falconbridge was accounted for as an associate.
Specifically from 14 August 2005 until the announcement of Inco Limiteds proposed friendly takeover offer to acquire Falconbridge for CAD34.00 per share on 11 October 2005, equity accounting was applied.
After the announcement, equity accounting was ceased as the Group no longer had significant influence over the investment and the investment was classified as an available-for-sale financial asset refer to note 22.
The following is a summary of the financial results for Falconbridge during the period it was treated as an associate: US$m 2006 2005 Share of associates revenue and profit during the period classified as an associate: Revenue 250 EBITDA 68 EBIT 45 Profit for the year 21 The reporting date of Falconbridge was the same as the Group, being 31 December.
The Group has interests in coal terminals, through which the shareholders gain access to export markets and a 25% interest in the Noranda Income Fund which owns a zinc refinery in , Quebec.
The Noranda Income Fund is listed on the Toronto stock exchange and the fair value of the Groups investment was US$106 million at 31 December 2006 2005 US$nil.
The companies which own the coal terminals are not listed so there is no published quoted price for the fair value of these investments.
The reporting dates for all associates is the same as for the Group, being 31 December.
The following is a summary of the financial information of the above associates: US$m 2006 2005 Share of associates balance sheet: Non-current assets 230 48 Current assets 93 16 Total assets 323 64 Non-current liabilities 88 19 Current liabilities 56 1 Total liabilities 144 20 Net assets 179 44 Carrying amount of the investment 179 44 Share of associates revenue and profit: Revenue 116 13 EBITDA 6 5 EBIT 2 4 Net interest paid 2 1 Income tax expense 1 Profit for the year 4 2 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 207 21.
Interests in Joint Venture Entities The Group has various interests in jointly controlled entities, operations and assets as outlined in note 36.
These interests are accounted for in the manner outlined in note 6.
The following is a summary of the financial information of the Groups jointly controlled entities in South Africa, South America and New Caledonia: US$m 2006 2005 Share of joint ventures balance sheets: Non-current assets 9,592 Current assets 621 Total assets 10,213 Non-current liabilities 2,064 Current liabilities 678 Total liabilities 2,742 Net assets 7,471 Net assets consolidated 7,471 Share of joint ventures revenue and profit: Revenue 1,063 Cost of sales before depreciation and amortisation 273 Distribution costs 62 Administration expenses before depreciation and amortisation 21 EBITDA 707 Depreciation and amortisation 175 EBIT 532 Finance income 9 Finance costs 14 Profit before tax 527 Income tax expense 164 Profit for the year 363 In 2005, the Group held no interests in jointly controlled entities.
Available-for-sale Financial Assets US$m 2006 2005 Shares listed 58 2,321 Shares unlisted 12 4 Royalty contract 90 160 2,325 Available-for-sale financial assets consist of a long-term royalty income contract and investments in listed and unlisted ordinary shares that have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate.
These investments are held for strategic purposes.
In 2005, the listed shares mainly related to the Groups 19.9% interest in Falconbridge refer to note 7 and 20.
In 2006, the listed shares relate to companies in the mining industry.
The listed shares are carried at fair value.
Unlisted shares mainly comprise interests in ports in Australia used to export coal and are carried at fair value.
208 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 23.
Derivative Financial Assets US$m 2006 2005 Current: Commodity cash flow hedges 16 Foreign currency cash flow hedges 9 Other commodity derivatives 2 1 11 17 Non-current: Commodity cash flow hedges 8 Foreign currency cash flow hedges 1 Fair value interest rate swap hedge 8 Other commodity derivatives 1 Other foreign currency derivatives 48 57 9 Total 68 26 24.
Other Financial Assets US$m 2006 2005 Current: Loans to joint venture partners 34 Security deposits 2 2 34 Non-current: Energy contracts at fair value through profit and loss 8 Fair value hedge refer to notes 28 and 37 15 Loans to joint venture partners 214 Rehabilitation trust fund 36 35 Other 41 6 299 56 Total 301 90 Loans to joint venture partners A loan to Merafe was made on establishment of the Chrome PSV.
At 31 December 2006, US$nil 2005 US$3 million was interest free and US$21 million 2005 US$31 million was subject to a floating interest rate based on South African prime rates.
This loan is secured by the Groups ability to acquire Merafes PSV assets at fair value in the event of default.
A loan was made to African Rainbow Minerals Limited ARM on establishment of ARM Coal.
At 31 December 2006, US$56 million 2005 US$nil was subject to a floating interest rate based on South African prime rates.
This loan is secured by the Groups ability to acquire ARM Coal assets at fair value in the event of default.
A loan has been made to the Koniambo joint venture partner.
At 31 December 2006, US$116 million 2005 US$nil was subject to a fixed interest rate of 9% per annum and is repayable by 31 March 2008.
This loan is secured by the Groups ability to acquire Koniambos assets at fair value in the event of default.
A loan has been made to Barrick Gold Corporation for the Kabanga joint venture.
At 31 December 2006, US$21 million 2005 US$nil was interest free.
This loan is secured by the Groups ability to acquire Kabangas assets at fair value in the event of default.
Other Financial Assets continued Rehabilitation trust fund The rehabilitation trust fund in South Africa receives cash contributions to accumulate funds for the Groups rehabilitation liability relating to the eventual closure of the Groups coal operations.
Amounts are paid out from the trust fund following completion and approval of the rehabilitation work by the South African Department of Minerals and Energy.
The contributions to the trust fund are placed with investment banks who are responsible for making investments in equity and money market instruments.
The trust fund is to be used according to the terms of the trust deed and the assets are not available for the general purpose of the Group.
The trust fund is carried at fair value.
Other Other includes receivables from financial institutions for self insurance and employee benefits.
Cash and Cash Equivalents US$m 2006 2005 Cash at bank and in hand 622 154 Short term deposits 1,238 370 1,860 524 The majority of cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates of interest with a limited amount at fixed rates of interest and interest free.
Short term deposits are made at call and for less than one week, dependent on the short term cash requirements of the Group and earn interest based on the respective short term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005 approximates carrying value.
For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December: US$m 2006 2005 Cash at bank and in hand 622 154 Short term deposits 1,238 370 Bank overdrafts refer to note 30 143 3 1,717 521 During the year, the Group entered into new finance leases and hire purchase contracts to purchase various items of plant and equipment for US$nil 2005 US$62 million, issued shares from the conversion of the convertible borrowings and issued shares to the ESOP for a market value of US$136 million 2005 US$19 million which did not require the use of cash and cash equivalents and are not included in the net cash flow used in investing and financing activities in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
210 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Capital and Reserves US$m Authorised: 875,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 1 January and 31 December 2005 and as at 1 January 2006 438 14,234,948,397 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each increase on 30 June 2006 7,117 15,109,948,397 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2006 7,555 50,000 deferred shares of GBP1.00 each as at 1 January and 31 December 2005 and as at 1 January and 31 December 2006 1 special voting share of US$0.50 as at 1 January and 31 December 2005 and as at 1 January and 31 December 2006 7,555 Issued, called up and fully paid: 631,502,416 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 1 January 2005 315 1,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 24 March 2005 to the ESOP 1 632,502,416 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2006 316 3,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 28 March 2006 to the ESOP 1 32,543,344 ordinary shares issued on 22 May 2006 to institutional investors 16 235,787,596 ordinary shares issued on 30 October 2006 from a shareholder rights issue 118 39,317,027 ordinary shares issued on the exercise of convertible bonds during 2006 20 943,150,383 ordinary shares as at 31 December 2006 471 50,000 deferred shares of GBP1.00 each paid to GBP0.25 as at 1 January and 31 December 2005 and as at 1 January and 31 December 2006 1 special voting share of US$0.50 as at 1 January and 31 December 2005 and as at 1 January and 31 December 2006 Share Premium: As at 1 January 2005 2,482 1,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 24 March 2005 to the ESOP 18 As at 31 December 2005 2,500 3,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 28 March 2006 to the ESOP 97 32,543,344 ordinary shares issued on 22 May 2006 to institutional investors 1,236 235,787,596 ordinary shares issued on 30 October 2006 from a shareholder rights issue 5,314 39,317,027 ordinary shares issued on the exercise of convertible bonds during 2006 375 As at 31 December 2006 9,522 Own shares: 7,481,271 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 1 January 2005 91 26,079,250 ordinary shares purchased in the ECMP during the year 522 1,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 24 March to the ESOP 19 3,925 ordinary shares purchased in the ESOP during the year 1,509,582 ordinary shares disposed by the ESOP during the year 16 33,054,864 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2005 616 29,450,976 ordinary shares disposed by the ECMP on 19 May 2006 572 3,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 28 March to the ESOP 98 428,053 ordinary shares purchased in the ESOP during the year 11 1,611,519 ordinary shares purchased from shareholder rights issue on 30 October 2006 38 2,469,713 ordinary shares disposed by the ESOP during the year 37 6,173,747 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2006 154 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 211 26.
Capital and Reserves continued Issue of ordinary shares During March 2005, 1,000,000 shares were issued to the ESOP at a market price of GBP 10.20 per share.
During March 2006, 3,000,000 shares were issued to the ESOP at a market price of GBP 18.72 per share.
On 22 May 2006, 32,543,344 shares were issued to institutional investors at a market price of GBP 21.00 per share.
During 2006, 64.3% of the US$600 million of convertible bonds were converted by the holders refer to note 29.
The net proceeds from the rights issue was US$5,432 million after US$186 million of capital raising costs and the number of shares in issue of Xstrata plc following the completion of the rights issue is 943,150,383.
Deferred shares The holders of deferred shares do not have the right to receive notice of any general meeting of the Company nor the right to attend, speak or vote at any such general meeting.
The deferred shares have no rights to dividends and, on a winding-up or other return of capital, entitle the holder only to the repayment of the amounts paid upon such shares after repayment of the nominal amount paid up on the ordinary shares, the nominal amount paid up on the special voting share plus the payment of GBP100,000 per ordinary share.
The Company may, at its option, redeem all of the deferred shares in issue at any time but subject to the minimum capital requirement of the Companies Act 1985 at a price not exceeding GBP1.00 for each share redeemed to be paid to the relevant registered holders of the shares.
Special voting share Certain rights, that are inalienable under Swiss law, have been preserved in the Xstrata plc Articles of Association by creating a special voting share that carries weighted voting rights sufficient to defeat any resolution which could amend or remove these entrenched rights.
The holder of the special voting share is the Law Debenture Trust Corporation plc which has entered into a voting agreement with the Company, specifying the conditions upon which it is entitled to exercise its right to vote.
The special voting share does not carry a right to receive dividends and is entitled to no more than the amount of capital paid up in the event of liquidation.
Own shares Own shares comprise shares of Xstrata plc held in the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP and held by Batiss Investments Batiss for the Equity Capital Management Program ECMP.
The shares acquired by the ESOP are either stock market purchases or share issues from the Company.
The ESOP is used to co-ordinate the funding and manage the delivery of ordinary shares for options and free share awards under the Groups employee award schemes refer to note 35.
The trustee of the ESOP is permitted to place the shares back into the market and may hold up to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
At 31 December 2006, 6,173,747 2005: 3,603,888 shares, equivalent to 0.7% 2005: 0.6% of the total issued share capital, were held by the trust with a cost of US$154 million 2005 US$44 million and market value of US$308 million 2005 US$84 million.
The trust has waived the right to receive dividends from the shares that it holds.
Costs relating to the administration of the trust are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
The shares acquired from the stock market by Batiss and held for the ECMP are used by the Group as a source of financing for future acquisitions, or placed back into the market.
The decision as to when to place the shares in the market, use the shares to assist the Group in facilitating future transactions, or to repurchase shares for cancellation, is considered in light of the Groups funding requirements and capital structure.
212 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Capital and Reserves continued Batiss is not permitted to hold more than 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
Batiss has entered into an option agreement with Xstrata Capital Corporation A. V. V. Xstrata Capital, a wholly owned subsidiary within the Xstrata Group, whereby Batiss has granted to Xstrata Capital a right to require Batiss to sell the purchased Xstrata shares to a third party other than a subsidiary of Xstrata plc, as nominated by Xstrata Capital, at an exercise price of 1p per share.
Under the option agreement, Xstrata Capital pays Batiss a premium for this right, the premium being the equivalent of the market price paid by Batiss for the shares plus associated costs less the 1p exercise price.
This premium payment, together with funds from a subscription by Xstrata Capital for non-voting redeemable preference shares in Batiss, provides the funding for Batiss to acquire the shares in the market.
These payments are sourced from the existing and future cash resources of Xstrata Capital.
Xstrata Capital is able to exercise its right under the option agreement for a period of six years from the date of each purchase, but has not chosen to do so in either 2005 or 2006.
Batiss has waived its right to receive dividends on the shares which it holds.
At 31 December 2006, nil 2005: 29,450,976 shares, equivalent to nil% 2005: 4.7% of the total issued share capital, were held by the trust with a cost of US$nil 2005 US$572 million and market value of US$nil 2005 US$690 million.
In 2006, the shares held at 31 December 2005 were used as a source of funding for the Cerrejn acquisition refer to note 7.
Consolidated changes in equity Attributable to equity holders of the parent Convertible borrowings Issued Share Own equity Other Retained Minority Total US$m capital premium shares component reserves earnings Total interests equity At 1 January 2006 316 2,500 616 119 3,054 2,192 7,565 572 8,137 Recognised income and expenses 1,528 1,995 3,523 405 3,928 Issue of share capital 155 7,022 136 41 7,000 7,000 Own share purchases 11 11 11 Own share disposals 609 525 1,134 1,134 Cost of IFRS 2 equity settled share-based compensation plans 42 42 42 Acquisition of subsidiaries 45 45 Redemption of minority interests 95 95 Dividends paid 251 251 207 458 At 31 December 2006 471 9,522 154 78 4,582 4,503 19,002 720 19,722 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 213 26.
Capital and Reserves continued Attributable to equity holders of the parent Convertible borrowings Issued Share Own equity Other Retained Minority Total US$m capital premium shares component reserves earnings Total interests equity At 1 January 2005 315 2,482 91 63 3,493 614 6,876 506 7,382 Recognised income and expenses 439 1,707 1,268 214 1,482 Issue of share capital 1 18 19 New borrowings issued 56 56 56 Own share purchases 522 522 522 Own share disposals 16 9 25 25 Cost of IFRS 2 equity settled share-based compensation plans 20 20 20 Exercise of pre-IFRS 2 option awards 4 4 4 Dividends paid 154 154 148 302 At 31 December 2005 316 2,500 616 119 3,054 2,192 7,565 572 8,137 Other reserves Net Foreign Revaluation Other unrealised currency US$m reserves reserves gains translation Total At 1 January 2005 1,241 2 2,250 3,493 Available-for-sale financial assets 398 398 Losses on cash flow hedges 314 314 Realised losses on cash flow hedges 128 128 Recycled foreign currency translation net gains 67 67 Foreign currency translation differences 4 582 578 Deferred tax 24 18 6 192 631 439 At 31 December 2005 1,241 194 1,619 3,054 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 1,528 1,528 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,892 1,892 Losses on cash flow hedges 78 78 Realised gains on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 63 63 Reversal of revaluation surplus on available-for-sale financial assets 2,205 2,205 Realised losses on cash flow hedges 125 125 Recycled foreign currency translation net losses 47 47 Foreign currency translation differences 5 249 244 Deferred tax 59 21 38 1,528 275 275 1,528 At 31 December 2006 1,528 1,241 81 1,894 4,582 Relates to gains made on the Groups investment in Falconbridge whilst the investment was treated as an available-for-sale financial asset refer to note 22.
In accordance with the Groups accounting policy, on obtaining control of Falconbridge, the unrealised gains have been reversed and the acquisition accounting in note 7 was adopted.
214 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Capital and Reserves continued Revaluation reserves This reserve principally records the re-measurement from cost of the 19.9% interest held in Falconbridge at 31 December 2005, to the fair value of 19.9% of the identifiable net assets of Falconbridge on 15 August 2006, the date the Group obtained control of Falconbridge refer to note 7.
Other reserves This reserve principally originated during 2002 from the merger of Xstrata AG into Xstrata plc US$279 million and the issue of shares from the acquisition of the Duiker and Enex Groups of US$935 million.
Net unrealised gains losses reserve This reserve records the re-measurement of available-for-sale financial assets to fair value refer to note 22 and the effective portion of the gain or loss on cash flow hedging contracts refer to note 23, 30 and 37.
Deferred tax is provided on the re-measurement at tax rates enacted or substantively enacted.
Foreign currency translation reserve This is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the exchange differences from the translation of quasi equity inter-company loans in foreign operations.
On disposal or partial disposal of a foreign entity or repayment of a quasi equity loan, the deferred accumulated amount recognised in this reserve is transferred to the income statement.
Trade and Other Payables US$m 2006 2005 Current: Trade payables 2,290 598 Sundry payables 326 108 Interest payable 23 17 Accruals and other payables 471 223 3,110 946 Non-current: Accruals and other payables 69 10 69 10 Total 3,179 956 All current payables are expected to be settled in the next 12 months and non-current payables are expected to be settled within 13 years 2005: 6 years.
Interest-bearing Loans and Borrowings US$m 2006 2005 Current: Bank overdrafts 143 3 Syndicated bank loans unsecured 1,677 106 Term bank loan unsecured 600 Bank loans other unsecured 39 7 Capital market notes 5 14 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts i 147 15 Bank loan issue costs 21 1 1,990 744 Non-current: Syndicated bank loans unsecured 7,416 971 Bank loans other unsecured 345 6 Capital market notes 4,627 262 Minority interest loans 81 81 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts i 95 214 Preference shares 304 Other loans 139 1 Bank loan issue costs 61 2 12,946 1,533 Non-current: Convertible borrowings refer note 29 527 866 Convertible borrowings issue costs 2 8 525 858 Total 15,461 3,135 Less cash and cash equivalents refer note 25 1,860 524 Net debt 13,601 2,611 Net debt is defined as loans and borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents.
Secured over specific items of plant and equipment refer to note 16.
Syndicated Loan Facility On 28 May 2004 Xstrata plc and certain subsidiary undertakings of the Group, entered into a US$1,400 million committed multi-currency syndicated loan.
The loan was comprised of two tranches, a US$1,000 million five year facility and a US$400 million 364-day facility, with a 364-day term out option.
During the period the 364-day facility was extended for a further 364-day period to 26 May 2006.
The interest payable on the syndicated loan facility was at a rate based on the London inter-bank offered rate LIBOR plus 50 basis points for the five-year element and 40 basis points for the 364-day tranche with a utilisation fee of five basis points if usage exceeds 66.6% of the facility.
The Company was liable to pay a commitment fee on the un-drawn portion of the syndicated facility at a rate per annum equal to 20 basis points and 10 basis points on the five-year and 364-day elements respectively, payable quarterly in arrears.
This facility was re-financed during 2006.
On 8 August 2006 Xstrata plc and certain subsidiary undertakings of the Group, entered into a US$9,500 million committed multi-currency syndicated loan to fund a portion of the Falconbridge acquisition.
The loan is comprised of four tranches, a US$3,353 million three year facility, a US$1,117 million five year facility, a US$3,353 million five year revolving facility and a US$1,677 million 364-day facility, with a 364-day term out option.
The syndicated loan facility bears interest at a rate based on the London inter-bank offered rate LIBOR plus 60 basis points for the three year element, 70 basis points for the five year elements and 50 basis points for the 364-day tranche.
The Group is liable to pay a commitment fee on the un-drawn portion of the syndicated facility at a rate per annum equal to 35% of the applicable margin payable on the three and five year tranches and 30% of the applicable margin on the 364-day tranche, payable quarterly in arrears.
216 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 28.
Interest-bearing Loans and Borrowings continued Term Bank Loan On 18 August 2005 Xstrata plc and certain subsidiary undertakings of the Group, entered into a US$600 million 364-day fully drawn advance loan facility.
The interest payable on the term loan was at a rate based on LIBOR plus 40 basis points per annum.
Bridge Facility On 8 May 2006, the Group entered into a US$2,500 million committed multi-currency 364-day loan facility to partly finance the Cerrejn and Tintaya acquisitions refer to note 7.
The interest payable on the loan was based on LIBOR plus 40 basis points per annum.
The Group was liable to pay a commitment fee on the un-drawn portion of the facility at a rate per annum equal to 25 per cent on the applicable margin, payable quarterly in arrears.
This facility was re-financed prior to 31 December 2006.
Equity and Debt bridge Facilities The acquisition of Falconbridge in August 2006 refer to note 7 was initially partly financed with equity and debt bridge facilities of US$7,000 million and US$2,500 million respectively.
The equity and debt bridge facilities bears interest at rates based on LIBOR plus 40 basis points.
The equity and debt bridge facilities were repaid following the Rights Issue in October 2006 refer to note 26 and a global capital market notes issue in November 2006 refer below.
Capital Market Notes As at 31 December 2006, other unsecured private placements included: Fixed or Effective Effective floating interest interest At 31 Dec 06 interest Rate % At 31 Dec 05 Rate % Facility Denomination US$m rate in 2006 Maturity US$m in 2005 a Series A senior unsecured notes US$ 150 Fixed 5.90 Jun 08 159 5.90 a Series B senior unsecured notes US$ Dec 06 9 3.22 a Series B senior unsecured notes US$ 50 Fixed 6.75 Jun 11 54 6.75 a Series B senior unsecured notes US$ 50 Fixed 7.00 Jun 11 54 7.00 b Unsecured notes US$ 500 Floating 5.72 Nov 09 b Unsecured notes US$ 750 Fixed 5.50 Nov 11 b Unsecured notes US$ 1,000 Fixed 5.80 Nov 16 c Senior debentures CAD 155 Fixed 4.89 Dec 08 c Senior debentures US$ 328 Fixed 6.03 Feb 11 c Senior debentures US$ 266 Fixed 5.88 Jun 12 c Senior debentures US$ 317 Fixed 6.06 Jul 12 c Senior debentures US$ 354 Fixed 6.34 Oct 15 c Senior debentures US$ 246 Fixed 6.16 Jun 15 c Senior debentures US$ 234 Fixed 6.39 Jun 17 c Senior debentures US$ 232 Fixed 6.77 Jun 35 4,632 276 a An Australian subsidiary has designated the series A and B senior unsecured notes as a fair value hedge of an investment in South America refer to notes 28 and 37.
The hedge is being used to reduce exposure to foreign currency risk.
b In November 2006, the Group issued US$2,250 million of capital market notes to refinance existing debt facilities.
The notes are comprised of three tranches, a US$1,000 million ten year note at a fixed interest rate of 5.8%, a US$750 million five year note at a fixed interest rate of 5.5% and a US$500 million three year note that bears interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 35 basis points.
The fixed interest notes were issued by Xstrata Finance Canada Limited and the floating rate note was issued by Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited.
The Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited issue was guaranteed by Xstrata plc, Xstrata Schweiz AG and Xstrata Finance Canada Limited.
The Xstrata Finance Canada Limited issues were guaranteed by Xstrata plc, Xstrata Schweiz AG and Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited.
c The senior debentures were assumed by the Group through the acquisition of Falconbridge refer to note 7.
Pursuant to the terms of the note indentures as amended by supplemental indentures, Xstrata plc has fully and unconditionally guaranteed in favour of the holders of the senior debentures the payment, within 15 days of when due, of all financial liabilities and obligations of Falconbridge limited to such holders under the terms of the senior debentures.
Interest-bearing Loans and Borrowings continued Preference shares As at 31 December 2006, unsecured preference shares included: Fixed or Effective floating interest At 31 Dec 06 interest Interest At 31 Dec 05 Rate % Facility Denomination US$m rate Rate % Maturity US$m in 2005 Preference shares series 2 CAD 103 Floating 5.10 Preference shares series 3 CAD 67 Fixed 4.58 Mar 09 Preference shares series H CAD 134 Fixed 6.50 Mar 08 304 The preference shares were assumed by the Group through the acquisition of Falconbridge refer to note 7.
At the acquisition date, Falconbridge had additional preference shares outstanding.
The Group completed the redemption of all of the outstanding preferred shares, series F and series G and preferred shares series 1 for an aggregate cash consideration of CAD306 million US$270 million on 1 November 2006.
Following the completion of the preferred share redemption, the Toronto Stock Exchange halted trading in and fide-listed the series F shares and the series G shares from the TSX.
Pursuant to the terms of a guarantee indenture, Xstrata plc has fully and unconditionally guaranteed in favour of the holders of the preference shares the payment, within 15 days of when due, of all financial liabilities and obligations of Falconbridge limited to such holders under the terms of the preference shares.
Bank Loans other unsecured Other bank loans includes: Debts of proportionally consolidated joint ventures of US$139 million 2005 US$nil which bear interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 175 basis points, repayable in August 2011 and US$201 million 2005 US$nil which bear interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 31 basis points, repayable by December 2011: US$40 million 2005 US$nil which bear interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 85 basis points, repayable in January 2008: and ZAR denominated borrowings of US$4 million 2005 US$13 million that are subject to floating interest rates based on Johannesburg inter bank acceptance rate JIBAR with an average floating interest rate of 9.0% per annum during 2006 2005: 8.7% per annum, repayable by January 2010.
Bank overdrafts unsecured Bank overdrafts are subject to local and US$ prime floating interest rates in which they have been drawn down.
The majority of the bank overdrafts are denominated in CAD.
Minority Interest Loans Minority interest loans include US$81 million 2005 US$81 million advanced to Minera Alumbrera Limited to fund operations that is subject to a fixed rate of 7.2% per annum 2005: 7.2% per annum.
It has no fixed repayment date, but is not callable within 12 months.
Other Loans Other loans include ZAR denominated loans at 31 December 2006 of US$135 million 2005 US$nil payable to ARM Coal refer to note 7.
The loan is subject to a floating rate of interest based on a dividend calculation with no fixed repayment date and is not callable within 12 months.
As at 31 December 2006, other loans included US$4 million 2005 US$1 million, received from the Ministry of Industry & Energy and Cantabria Government in Spain for San Juan fide Nieva zinc smelter expansion projects.
US$3 million 2005 US$1 million is interest free, repayable by 2014 and US$1 million is subject to a fixed rate of 5.0% per annum, repayable by 2013.
218 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 29.
Convertible Borrowings US$m 2006 2005 Convertible bonds 201 555 Effect of fair value hedge 2 9 Bond issue costs 2 8 201 538 Convertible debenture 324 320 525 858 Convertible Bonds On 15 August 2003, Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV issued US$600 million of Convertible Bonds due 15 August 2010 convertible at the option of the holder into fully paid Xstrata plc ordinary shares.
The Convertible Bonds are guaranteed by the Company and were issued at par and bear a coupon of 3.95% per annum.
On issue, they were convertible at any time after 26 September 2003 at the option of the holder into 61,180,977 ordinary shares in Xstrata plc based on a conversion price of GBP6.10 US$9.81 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate per ordinary share, a 39.6% premium to the closing price of Xstrata plcs ordinary shares on August 1, 2003.
On the giving of not less than 30 days notice, the Convertible Bond may be called by the Group at par plus accrued interest if the share price is 30% higher than the conversion price for 20 dealing days within a 30-day period, at any time on or after 6 September 2007.
If 85% or more of the bonds originally issued have been converted and or redeemed, then the remainder of the bonds can be redeemed by the Group.
If not converted or previously redeemed, the Convertible Bonds will be redeemed at par on 15 August 2010.
The liability component of the Convertible Bonds is carried at amortised cost based on an effective interest rate of 5.85% per annum.
During 2006, 64.3% of the US$600 million of convertible bonds were converted by the holders refer note 26.
Following the conversions that occurred during 2006 and rights issue in October 2006 refer to note 26, the remaining number of ordinary shares that can be issued under the bond at 31 December 2006 is 24,516,545 and as a result of the rights issue the conversion price was adjusted to GBP5.44 US$8.75 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate.
In February 2007, 22,832,325 ordinary shares were issued as a result of conversions by the holders of the Convertible Bonds refer to note 38.
On 15 March 2007, the Group announced that its subsidiary, Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV exercised its right to call for the redemption of all of the outstanding Convertible Bonds.
The terms and conditions of the Bonds permit the Issuer to redeem all of the Bonds at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest up to and including the date fixed for redemption, following the satisfaction of certain conditions.
One of the conditions is that conversion rights have been exercised in respect of 85% or more in principal amount of the Convertible Bonds originally issued.
As at 14 March 2007, US$14,730,000 or 2.455% of the principal amount of the Convertible Bonds originally issued was outstanding.
The date fixed for redemption by the Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV is 16 April 2007.
The last day on which conversion rights may be exercised by bondholders is 2 April 2007.
The fixed interest rate on the bonds has been swapped to a floating rate refer to note 28.
The swap has been accounted for as a fair value hedge refer to note 37.
Convertible Debenture On 6 September 2005, Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV issued a US$375 million Convertible Debenture to Brookfield, due 14 August 2017, convertible at the option of the holder into fully paid Xstrata plc ordinary shares.
The Convertible Debenture is guaranteed by the Company and was issued at par, with a coupon of 4.0% per annum.
On issue it was convertible at any time on or after 14 August 2006 at the option of the holder into 12,100,332 ordinary shares in Xstrata plc based on a conversion price of GBP17.13 US$30.99 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate per ordinary share, representing a 35% premium to the closing price of Xstrata plcs ordinary shares on 11 August 2005.
Following the rights issue in October 2006 refer to note 26, the total number of ordinary shares that can be converted was increased to 13,575,432 and the conversion price was adjusted to GBP15.27 US$27.62 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate.
On the giving of not less than 30 days notice, the Convertible Debenture may be called by the Group at par plus accrued interest, at any time after 14 August 2010.
If not converted or previously redeemed, the Guaranteed Convertible Debenture will be redeemed at par on 14 August 2017.
The liability component of the Convertible Bonds is carried at amortised cost based on an effective interest rate of 5.74% per annum.
There were no conversions during 2006.
Derivative Financial Liabilities US$m 2006 2005 Current: Commodity cash flow hedges 54 101 Foreign currency cash flow hedges 1 14 Other commodity derivatives 6 118 Other foreign currency derivatives 17 78 233 Non-current: Commodity cash flow hedges 50 51 Foreign currency cash flow hedges 1 Fair value interest rate swap hedge 24 10 Other commodity derivatives 1 Other foreign currency derivatives 96 172 61 Total 250 294 220 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 31.
Provisions Post Share-based retirement Employee compensation medical Rehabilitation Onerous US$ m entitlements plans plans costs contracts Other 2006 At 1 January 174 12 11 318 23 33 571 Acquisition of subsidiaries 100 407 656 16 146 1,325 Arising during the year 138 49 20 28 121 356 Discount unwinding 32 2 640 PPE asset adjustment 88 88 Utilised 74 3 4 49 2 67 199 Unused amounts reversed 8 12 5 25 Translation adjustments 22 21 19 3 23 At 31 December 352 58 413 1,080 42 234 2,179 Current 193 4 92 289 Non-current 159 58 413 1,076 42 142 1,890 352 58 413 1,080 42 234 2,179 Post Share-based retirement Employee compensation medical Rehabilitation Onerous US$ m entitlements plans plans costs contracts Other 2005 At 1 January 154 9 13 339 27 33 575 Arising during the year 96 11 26 24 72 229 Discount unwinding 14 14 PPE asset adjustment 5 5 Utilised 63 8 38 25 70 204 Unused amounts reversed 2 1 1 1 5 Translation adjustments 11 1 27 3 1 43 At 31 December 174 12 11 318 23 33 571 Current 80 4 1 29 114 Non-current 94 12 11 314 22 4 457 174 12 11 318 23 33 571 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 221 31.
Provisions continued Employee entitlements The employee entitlement provisions mainly represent the value of excess leave entitlements allocated over the leave taken by the employees of the Group.
These amounts are expected to be utilised as the employees either take their accrued leave or receive equivalent benefits upon ceasing employment.
Current employee entitlements include excess short term leave entitlements and the portion of non-current employee entitlements that are expected to be incurred within 12 months.
Non-current entitlements include long service leave entitlements which are payable upon an employee attaining a certain period of service and workers compensation provisions.
For some entitlements, amounts will also be recovered from an independent fund refer to note 19.
These costs are expected to be incurred over the next 9 years 2005: 8 years.
Share-based compensation plans The Group has various share-based compensation plans under which options to subscribe for the Companys shares have been granted to certain executives and senior employees that will be cash-settled refer to note 35.
The intrinsic value of the options that had vested at 31 December 2006 was US$17 million 2005 US$1 million.
Post retirement medical plans The Group operates unfunded post-retirement medical benefits plans in Canada, Dominican Republic, United States and South Africa for a number of current and former employees.
Independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method assess the accumulated benefit obligation and annual cost of accrued benefits.
These costs are expected to be incurred over the next 13 years 2005: 18 years refer to note 35.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation provision represents the estimated costs required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion of mining activities.
These amounts will reverse when such rehabilitation has been performed.
These costs are expected to be incurred over the next 24 years 2005: 16 years refer to note 24.
Onerous contracts Onerous contract provisions represent the restatement of various long term contracts to their current market value at the acquisition date of subsidiaries.
These contracts will expire within 12 years 2005: 13 years.
Other Other includes provisions for litigation of US$83 million 2005 US$18 million and restructuring of US$32 million 2005 US$nil that are expected to be utilised within 17 years 2005: 2 years.
Other Liabilities US$m 2006 2005 Current: Deferred income 41 11 41 11 Non-current: Deferred income 16 9 Other 1 16 10 222 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 33.
Litigation settlements On 1 December 2006, the Group agreed to purchase the remaining 50% interest in the Tavistock TESA joint venture in South Africa from its joint venture partner, Total Coal South Africa Pty Ltd TCSA for US$49 million refer to note 7 and confirmed the settlement of the long-term arrangements of TCSAs 50% interest in Arthur Taylor Colliery ATC and Arthur Taylor Colliery Open-cast Mine ATCOM operations.
The settlement follows the termination of a joint venture between the Group and TCSA in 2004.
Commitments and Contingencies Operating lease commitments Group as Lessee The Group has entered into leases for buildings, motor vehicles and sundry plant and equipment.
These leases have an average life of 5 years 2005: 12 years with renewal terms at the option of the lessee at lease payments based on market prices at the time of renewal.
There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: US$m 2006 2005 Within one year 50 17 After one year but not more than five years 101 23 More than five years 20 11 171 51 Finance lease and hire purchase commitments The Group has entered into finance leases and hire purchase contracts for various items of plant and machinery.
The majority of these leases include a residual balloon payment at the end of the lease term and title passing to the Group.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the future finance charges as at 31 December are as follows: Present Present Un-discounted value of Un-discounted value of minimum minimum minimum minimum payments payments payments payments US$m 2006 2006 2005 2005 Within one year 159 147 31 15 After one year but not more than five years 84 68 188 172 More than five years 43 27 48 42 Total minimum lease payments 286 242 267 229 Less amounts representing finance lease charges 44 38 Present value of minimum lease payments 242 242 229 229 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 223 34.
Commitments and Contingencies continued Capital commitments Amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements amounted to US$795 million 2005 US$489 million, including: Xstrata Coal US$62 million for a coal handling preparation plant upgrade at Mt Owen and US$58 million of earth moving equipment at Cerrejn: Xstrata Alloys US$17 million 2005 US$99 million for Project Lion, US$32 million 2005 US$96 million for the Mototolo joint venture and the construction of a ferrochrome smelter, US$nil 2005 US$29 million for a mega pelletizer at the Wonderkop plant: and Xstrata Nickel US$104 million 2005 US$nil for the Nickel Rim South project, US$159 million 2005 US$nil for the Koniambo project and US$47 million 2005 US$nil for the Kabanga project.
The balance of the other amounts contracted for but not provided relates to various minor commitments around the Group, mainly for the purchase of new property, plant and equipment.
Included in the above is US$371 million 2005 US$140 million representing the Groups share of the capital commitments that have been incurred jointly with other venturers.
Finance leases entered into after 31 December 2006 amounted to US$nil 2005 US$nil.
Guarantees Xstrata Coal Australia has contracted US$697 million 2005 US$440 million for rail take or pay commitments, US$494 million 2005 US$243 million for port take or pay commitments, performance guarantees to customers under contracts for supply of coal for US$25 million 2005 US$21 million and guarantees to the NSW and Queensland Departments for Mineral Resources in respect of various mining leases and the performance thereof US$78 million 2005 US$59 million.
Xstrata Coal as a party to the Newlands and Collinsville joint ventures is responsible for costs incurred with workforce termination and equipment demobilisation at the conclusion of the open cut mining contracts.
Indemnities have been provided by the joint venture partners to government agencies including guarantees relating to mining tenements of US$34 million 2005 US$5 million.
Xstrata Coal South Africa has issued guarantees to the Department of Mineral and Energy to obtain certain prospecting permits of US$68 million 2005 US$nil.
Xstrata Coals share of the Cerrejn coal mines performance guarantees totals US$343 million 2005 US$nil.
These guarantees have been provided to various government agencies to enable the coal mine to freely export coal, receive tax exemptions, and to access a special imports system.
Xstrata Alloys has issued guarantees to Eskom for power usage and early termination of power usage of US$13 million 2005 US$16 million and to the Department of Mineral and Energy Mineral Resources, municipalities and governmental boards in respect of various mining leases and the performance thereof for US$19 million 2005 US$6 million.
Xstrata Alloys has issued a guarantee in respect of the obligations of Merafe under a US$43 million 2005 US$47 million facility in connection with the acquisition of certain assets and resources relating to the PSV and the Project Lion ferrochrome expansion project to be undertaken by the PSV.
Any payments to be made under the guarantee are secured by the Groups ability to acquire Merafes PSV assets for fair value and the security Merafe has provided to the lender.
Xstrata Copper, Xstrata Zinc and Xstrata Technology Australia have issued performance guarantees to customers for US$27 million 2005 US$22 million and guarantees to the Queensland Departments for Mineral Resources and other government agencies in respect of various mining leases and the performance thereof, environmental bonds and self insurance licences US$174 million 2005 US$126 million.
Xstrata Nickel has issued guarantees for energy contracts of US$96 million 2005 US$nil, US$25 million 2005 US$nil for oil supplies and a letter of credit to Japanese Custom and Tariff Bureau in respect of customs duty and consumption tax on imports of nickel, cobalt and other raw materials for $3 million.
224 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 34.
Commitments and Contingencies continued Xstrata Zinc has issued performance guarantees to the Northern Territory government for an electricity supply and pipeline agreements of US$29 million 2005 US$32 million and has provided bank guarantees to the Northern Territory government for rehabilitation costs of US$41 million 2005 US$nil.
Xstrata Zinc has issued bank guarantees in Spain of US$55 million 2005 US$76 million.
A letter of credit of US$172 million 2005 US$nil has been given for the pension liabilities of the Groups Canadian operations.
Letters of credit have been issued to the Canadian government for rehabilitation costs of US$33 million 2005 US$nil.
A letter of credit has been issued to non-government Canadian electricity suppliers for power usage for US$10 million 2005 US$nil.
Included in the above is US$1,609 million 2005 US$712 million representing the Groups share of guarantees that have been incurred jointly with other venturers.
Other contingencies The purchase agreement of the Las Bambas copper project in Peru includes contingent amounts payable to a community trust fund of US$2 million 2005 US$21 million following a decision to develop the project.
This will be payable over the development and construction phases of the project.
No decision to development the project has been made.
There have been no other contingencies included above incurred jointly with other venturers.
Employee Benefits Share-based Payments The expense recognised for share based payments during the year is shown in the following table: US$m 2006 2005 Expense arising from equity settled transactions 42 20 Expense arising from cash settled transactions 49 11 Total Expense arising from share-based payment transactions 91 31 The Group operates a number of share option plans which are outlined below.
There have been no cancellations or modifications to any of the plans during 2006 or 2005.
Xstrata plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP has two elements: i A contingent award of free ordinary shares that vests after three years, subject to, and to the extent that, performance criteria determined at the time of grant have been satisfied: and ii A share option to acquire ordinary shares at a specified exercise price after the third anniversary of grant, subject to, and to the extent that, performance criteria determined at the time of grant have been satisfied.
All LTIP awards that vest are subject to the satisfaction of certain performance criteria being met over a three-year performance period.
Half of the options and free share awards issued in 2004 and 2005 and one-third issued in 2006 are conditional on Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to a peer group, with the remainder conditional on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale over the three-year period.
The 2003 LTIP awards are only subject to the TSR performance criteria.
For the awards conditional on TSR, one-half of the combined award will vest if TSR growth is at the median of the specified peer group, the full combined award will vest for performance at or above the second decile with straight line vesting between these points.
No vesting will occur for below median performance.
For the remaining award, vesting is conditional on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale: 10% of the combined award will vest for 1% cost savings, 70% for 2% cost savings and all awards for 3% or more cost savings, with straight line vesting between these points.
No vesting will occur if cost savings are less than 1%.
Real cost savings will be measured in relation to operating costs after adjusting for the effects of inflation, excluding depreciation, commodity price linked costs, effects of currencies on translation of local currency costs and planned life of mine adjustments.
No other features of the LTIP awards were incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
Employee Benefits continued No consideration will be payable on the vesting of an LTIP award of free ordinary shares.
On exercise of an option, a participant will be required to pay an exercise price which will not be less than the market value of an ordinary share on the date of grant.
Of the below options, 1.9 million 2005: 1.6 million are accounted for as cash-settled share-based awards whilst the remainder of the LTIP awards are equity-settled.
The movement in the number of free ordinary shares and share options is as follows: Free Shares 2006 2006 2005 2005 No WAEP No WAEP 1 1 Outstanding as at 1 January 3,675,667 NA 2,462,362 NA Granted during the year 852,536 NA 1,325,723 NA 2 Granted through rights issue 436,838 NA NA Forfeited during the year 121,974 NA 26,901 NA 3 4 Exercised during the year 675,586 NA 78,676 NA Expired during the year 38,116 NA 6,841 NA Outstanding as at 31 December 4,129,365 NA 3,675,667 NA Exercisable at 31 December NA NA 1 All shares included in this balance have been recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
2 These awards were issued as a result of the rights issue in October 2006 refer to note 26 3 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these awards was GBP17.56 4 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these awards was GBP9.97 The weighted average remaining contractual life for the free shares outstanding as at 31 December 2006 is 8.0 years 2005: 8.4 years.
The weighted average fair value of free shares granted during the year was US$22.25 2005: US$14.76.
Share Options 2006 2006 2005 2005 No WAEP No WAEP 1 Outstanding as at 1 January 12,191,118 GBP7.82 8,442,932 GBP6.27 Granted during the year 2,812,204 GBP16.15 4,419,089 GBP10.60 2 Granted through rights issue 1,531,063 GBP9.25 Forfeited during the year 406,582 GBP9.99 91,221 GBP7.94 3 4 Exercised during the year 1,559,147 GBP3.57 524,792 GBP6.25 Expired during the year 117,926 GBP3.53 54,890 GBP7.94 5 Outstanding as at 31 December 14,450,730 GBP9.26 12,191,118 GBP7.82 Exercisable at 31 December 637,630 GBP3.22 106,444 GBP6.27 1 All share options included in this balance have been recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, except for 106,444 options issued in 2002 2 These awards were issued as a result of the rights issue in October 2006 refer to note 26 3 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was GBP17.75 4 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was GBP11.49 5 All the share options included in this balance have been recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, except for 81,013 options issued in 2002 The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2006 7.9 years 2005: 8.4 years.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was US$7.72 2005: US$5.31.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was GBP3.22 GBP15.37 2005: GBP3.60 GBP10.60.
These exercise prices were adjusted by a factor of 0.9 due to the rights issue in October 2006.
226 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 35.
Employee Benefits continued The following table lists the inputs to the models used to measure the fair value of equity settled awards granted: Date of Date of grant grant 2006 2005 Dividend yield % 1.3 3.14 Expected volatility % 31 31 Risk-free interest rate % 4.4 4.9 Earliest exercise date 10 Mar 2009 11 Mar 2008 Latest exercise date 9 Mar 2016 10 Mar 2015 Expected exercise date 17 Nov 2009 10 Sep 2011 Share price at date of grant GBP 17.03 10.48 Exercise price GBP 17.17 10.60 Free share fair value at date of grant GBP 16.38 9.54 Option fair value at date of grant GBP 4.49 3.05 The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historic volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Both the free shares and the equity settled options are equity settled plans and the fair value is measured at the date of grant.
The fair value of the cash settled options is measured at the date of grant and at each reporting date until the liability is settled, using the Black Scholes option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions of the award.
Xstrata AG incentive plan With the merger of Xstrata AG into Xstrata plc, Xstrata plc assumed the obligations of Xstrata AG under the scheme with the number of options and exercise price adjusted accordingly.
The share options have a two year vesting period followed by a three year exercise period.
The exercise price was the share price at the date of granting of the share options.
There are no other conditions attaching to these options and they can be cash-settled by the holder.
No further options will be granted under this incentive plan.
All of the options below are accounted for as cash-settled share-based awards.
The movement in the number of share options are as follows: 2006 2006 2005 2005 No WAEP No WAEP 1 Outstanding as at 1 January 173,331 CHF27.63 1,873,730 CHF21.40 2 Granted through rights issue 1,502 CHF13.41 3 4 Exercised during the year 147,846 CHF25.64 1,010,112 CHF19.73 Expired during the year 12,667 CHF25.64 690,287 CHF22.28 Outstanding as at 31 December 14,320 CHF13.41 173,331 CHF27.63 Exercisable at 31 December 14,320 CHF13.41 173,331 CHF27.63 1 There are no shares included in this balance that have not been recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
2 These awards were issued as a result of the rights issue in October 2006 refer to note 26 3 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was CHF35.89.
4 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was CHF26.99.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2006 is 0.1 years 2005: 0.2 years.
No new shares were granted during the year.
The exercise price for options outstanding at the end of the year is CHF 13.41 2005 range: CHF14.98 CHF28.64.
Employee Benefits continued Directors Service contracts Options were granted to two executive Directors pursuant to the terms of on which they were recruited.
The options are to be equity-settled.
The final scheme vests in January 2007 and each scheme has an exercise period of seven years.
If the holder ceases to be employed by the Group for any reason, they may exercise any vested options within six months of such cessation, after which the options lapse.
Any unvested options will lapse if the holder is dismissed lawfully under the terms of their contract or if they voluntarily resign except where they have a valid reason to terminate their employment as defined in their employment contract, in which case all unvested options shall immediately vest and become exercisable for a period of six months.
In all other cases, they will remain exercisable for a period of six months.
The movement in the number of share options are as follows: 2006 2006 2005 2005 No WAEP No WAEP Outstanding as at 1 January 1,334,580 GBP4.75 1,779,440 CHF12.53 and GBP4.75 1 Granted through rights issue 156,413 GBP3.69 2 3 Exercised during the year 248,501 GBP3.69 444,860 CHF12.53 Outstanding as at 31 December 1,242,492 GBP4.36 1,334,580 GBP4.75 Exercisable at 31 December 993,994 US$4.03 444,860 GBP4.29 1 These awards were issued as a result of the rights issue in October 2006 refer to note 26 2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was US$48.32 3 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was CHF23.45 The above share options have not been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002 and have not been subsequently modified.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2006 is 6.4 years 2005: 7.4 years.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was 3.84 - 5.68 2005: 4.12 - 6.35 and CHF 12.53.
Xstrata AG Directors Incentive Scheme With the merger of Xstrata AG into Xstrata plc, Xstrata plc assumed the obligations of Xstrata AG under the scheme with the number of options and exercise price adjusted accordingly.
The movement in the number of share options are as follows: 2006 2006 2005 2005 No WAEP No WAEP Outstanding as at 1 January 15,231 CHF28.64 91,310 CHF23.34 Expired during the year 15,231 CHF28.64 76,079 CHF22.28 Outstanding as at 31 December 15,231 CHF28.64 Exercisable at 31 December 15,231 CHF28.64 The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2005 was 0.1 years.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the 2005 was CHF28.64 CHF28.64.
No new shares were granted during the year, and there are no outstanding shares under this scheme at 31 December 2006.
228 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 35.
Employee Benefits continued Deferred Bonus As detailed within the Remuneration Report on pages 126 to 139, the maximum bonus payable under the Bonus Plan for Executive Directors and the members of the Executive Committee is 300% of salary.
Bonuses are payable in three tranches as follows: the maximum bonus, which any one participant is eligible to receive in cash, will be limited to 100% of the individuals base salary: any additional bonus up to a further 100% of base salary will be deferred for a period of one year: and any remaining bonus will be deferred for a period of two years.
The deferred elements will take the form of awards of Xstrata shares conditional on the participant remaining in employment throughout the deferral period.
The number of shares awarded will be determined by reference to the market value of the shares at the date the bonus payment is determined.
The deferred elements have been treated as an equity-settled share-based payment in accordance with IFRS 2.
In 2005 the Xstrata Remuneration Committee resolved that during the bonus deferral period dividend equivalents would accrue in relation to the deferral, to be delivered at the end of the deferral period and subject to the deferral award vesting.
As dividend equivalents are receivable on the deferred amounts, the fair value of the deferral is technically equal to the value of the bonuses deferred.
The total value of 2006 bonuses deferred was US$13 million 2005 US$7 million.
The number of deferred shares for the 2006 deferred bonus is 291,585 2005: 258,242.
Directors Added Value Plan AVP The first cycle of the AVP began on 9 May 2005, and the second began on 10 March 2006.
A description of the performance requirements and the vesting schedule of the plan are detailed within the Remuneration Report on pages 126 to 139.
The fair value of the 2005 equity-settled share-based payment under IFRS 2 was US$7 million, estimated at the 9 May 2005, using a Monte Carlo simulation model to incorporate the market based features of the plan.
The equivalent valuation of the 2006 award was US$7 million, estimated at 10 March 2006 using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
For the 2005 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on the 9 May 2005 was US$11.4 billion, the Participation Percentage was equal to 0.5% and the share price at the measurement date was US$18.00.
For the 2006 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on the 10 March 2006 was US$18.6 billion, the Participation Percentage was equal to 0.3% and the share price at the measurement date was US$29.39.
2006 2005 Xstrata share Xstrata share 1 1 Xstrata plc Indices Xstrata plc Indices 2 2 Dividend yield % N A N A N A N A Expected volatility % 30% 21% 32% 21% Risk-free interest rate % 4.45% 4.45% 4.51% 4.51% Third anniversary of start of cycle 10 March 2009 10 March 2009 9 May 2008 9 May 2008 Fourth anniversary of start of cycle 10 March 2010 10 March 2010 9 May 2009 9 May 2009 Fifth anniversary of start of cycle 10 March 2011 10 March 2011 9 May 2010 9 May 2010 1 There are two Xstrata Share Indices used within the valuation model: one is a market capitalisation weighted TSR index comprising 19 global mining firms who are considered to be Xstratas key competitors for both financial and human capital.
The other is a market capitalisation price index comprising the same 19 constituents.
2 When simulating the Xstrata Price Index, a dividend yield is included to account for the suppressing impact that a dividend payment has on the constituent share prices.
For the simulation of Xstrata's TSR and the Index TSR a dividend yield is not required.
There is no disclosure of the number of equity instruments granted as the AVP is not an award over a fixed number of shares.
Employee Benefits continued Directors Glencore Option As part of a package to attract him to take the position of chief executive of Xstrata AG in October 2001, Glencore International AG Glencore awarded Mick Davis an option over shares in Xstrata owned by Glencore, at an exercise price 46% higher than the share price on the day he joined and exercisable after three years from 19 September 2005 until 19 September 2011.
Following the creation of the Company, the merger with Xstrata AG and the rights issue in 2003 associated with the acquisition of MIM Holdings Limited, the option was over 1,334,669 shares in the Company, owned by Glencore, at an exercise price of CHF13.60 per share.
On 20 September 2005, these options were exercised and Mick Davis received from Glencore a cash consideration equating to the current value of the option CHF26 million, representing 1.334 million shares at CHF19.70 per share, being the difference between Xstrata plc's closing price of CHF33.30 per share on Monday 19 September 2005 and the exercise price of CHF13.60 per share.
The Group did not incur any costs in respect of this exercise.
Pensions and Other Post-employment Benefit Plans Net expense recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December: US$m 2006 2005 Defined benefit pension plans 14 3 Defined contribution pension plans 81 78 Post-retirement medical plans 17 112 81 Defined Contribution Pension Plans The Group participates in a number of defined contribution pension plans and industry-wide schemes covering the majority of its employees.
The assets are held separately from those of the Group, being generally invested with insurance companies and regulated by local legislation.
Post-retirement Medical Plans The Group participates in a number of post-retirement medical benefits.
All material post-retirement medical benefit liabilities are in either North America or South Africa.
The actuaries have updated the valuations to 31 December 2006.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans The Group contributes to defined benefit pension plans for a number of its employees.
Independent professionally qualified actuaries assess the pension costs and funding of these plans using the projected unit method.
All material pension assets and liabilities in 2006 are in either North America or the United Kingdom.
All assumptions in both jurisdictions are similar and as a result no further breakdown has been provided in this note.
The 2005 amounts were principally in the United Kingdom.
230 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 35.
Employee Benefits continued The following tables summarises the components of the net expense recognised in cost of sales in the income statement and the funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical plans.
The weighted average principal economic assumptions used to determine the actuarial values are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans 2006 2006 2005 2005 Rate of salary increases 3.8% 4.2% Rate of pension increases 2.9% 2.7% Expected rate of return on plan assets: Equities 9.0% 7.8% Property 7.0% Bonds 4.6% 4.7% Cash 3.5% Total 6.9% 6.3% Discount rate 5.2% 5.3% 4.8% 8.9% Inflation rate 2.9% 2.5% 2.8% 4.4% Rate of medical cost increases 9.0% 9.2% These percentages are the weighted average assumptions for the Groups post-retirement medical plans.
Assumptions in 2005 relate to South African plans.
The significant plans are based in North America where the assumptions were: Discount rate 5.3% Inflation rate 2.5% Rate of medical cost increases 9.0% The remainder are in South Africa where the assumptions were: Discount rate 8.9% Inflation rate 4.3% Rate of medical cost increases 9.1% A one percentage point change in the assumed rate of increase in healthcare costs would have the following impact: Increase Decrease Increase Decrease US$m 2006 2006 2005 2005 Effect on the current service cost and interest cost 2 2 Effect on the defined benefit obligation 40 39 1 1 The pension plan mortality rate used at 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005 was PA92C06 less 0.25% pa for both pensioners and non-pensioners for the UK plans and UP-94 for North American pension and post-retirement medical plans.
These rates refer to published projected mortality tables by actuarial bodies in the UK and North America and take into account the assumed increases in the life expectancy and are calculated for both current and future pensioners.
There are no significant differences in these rates between schemes.
The average life expectancy in the medical plans was 82 years as at 31 December 2006 2005: 71 years.
Employee Benefits continued Funded status before allowance of deferred tax at 31 December are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2006 2006 2005 2005 Present value of benefit obligations 2,528 413 106 11 Assets at fair value 2,393 85 Net liability 135 413 21 11 Net liability as at 31 December represented by: Pension deficits 140 413 24 11 Pension assets 5 3 - Net liability 135 413 21 11 Historical adjustments are as follows: US$m 2006 2005 2004 Defined benefit obligation 2,528 106 110 Plan assets 2,393 85 85 Net deficit 135 21 25 Experience gain adjustments on plan liabilities 4 8 1 Experience gain loss adjustments on plan assets 96 4 1 The reconciliation of the net liability movement during the year in the net pension and post-retirement medical plan liability before allowance of deferred tax are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2006 2006 2005 2005 Net liability as at 1 January 21 11 25 13 Acquisition accounting adjustment 235 407 Total benefit expense 14 17 3 Actuarial gains losses 74 3 1 Employer contributions 61 4 5 Translation adjustments 21 2 1 Net liability as at 31 December 135 413 21 11 Relates to adjustments made in respect of the acquisition of Falconbridge Limited in August 2006.
Further contributions of GBP2 million per annum to 5 April 2015 are being made in order to eliminate the deficiency in the United Kingdom plan.
Further contributions of US$76 million in 2007, US$33 million in 2008, US$30 million in 2009, US$25 million in 2010, US$2 million per annum from 2011 to 2014 and US$1 million per annum from 2015 to 2018 are being made in order to eliminate the deficiency in the North America plans.
The total contributions to the defined benefit pension plans in 2007 including these further contributions are expected to be US$118 million.
232 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 35.
Employee Benefits continued The components of benefit income expense recognised in the income statement during the year are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2006 2006 2005 2005 Service cost 22 5 2 1 Interest cost 48 9 61 Expected return on plan assets net of expected expenses 56 1 5 - Gains losses on settlements and curtailments 4 14 17 3 The components of actuarial gains losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses during the year are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2006 2006 2005 2005 Expected return on plan assets net of expected expenses 56 1 5 Actual return on plan assets 152 3 9 Actual return less expected return on plan assets 96 2 4 Actuarial gain on pension obligations 4 8 1 Change of assumptions 26 5 12 74 3 1 The cumulative amount of net actuarial gains recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses is US$60 million 2005 loss US$11 million.
Employee Benefits continued The reconciliation of the present value of benefit obligations and fair value of plan asset movements during the year are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2006 2006 2005 2005 Benefit obligation present value as at 1 January 106 11 110 13 Acquisition accounting adjustment 2,489 439 Current service cost 22 5 2 1 Interest cost 48 9 61 Employee contributions 1 1 Actuarial gains losses 4 8 1 Actual benefit payments 59 10 5 Settlements and curtailments 28 Loss on settlements and curtailments 4 Change of assumptions 26 5 12 Translation adjustments 101 22 12 1 Benefit obligation present value as at 31 December 2,528 413 106 11 Plan assets fair value as at 1 January 85 85 Acquisition accounting adjustment 2,254 32 Actual return on plan assets 152 3 9 Company contributions 61 4 5 Employee contributions 1 1 Benefits paid from fund 59 10 5 Settlements and curtailments 28 Translation adjustments 101 1 10 Plan assets fair value as at 31 December 2,393 85 Net liability as at 31 December 135 413 21 11 Net liability as at 1 January 21 11 25 13 The defined benefit obligation present value included above for unfunded pension plans at 31 December 2006 was US$5 million 2005 US$5 million.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of the fair value of total plan assets are as follows: Pension Pension plans plans 2006 2005 Equities 52% 53% Property % 1% Bonds 48% 40% Cash % 5% Other % 1% Included in equities is US$1 million 2005 US$nil of Xstrata plc shares.
The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the market value weighted expected return applicable to the underlying asset category.
234 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 36.
Related Parties % of ordinary Country of shares held & Name incorporation Principal activities voting rights Principal Subsidiaries Xstrata Coal Abelshore Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% AZSA Holdings Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Cook Resources Mining Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Cumnock Coal Limited Australia Coal operations 84% Enex Foydell Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Liddell Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Oakbridge Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Xstrata Mt Owen Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Jonsha Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Oakbridge Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 78% Oceanic Coal Australia Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Ravensworth Operations Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Saxonvale Coal Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% The Wallerawang Collieries Limited Australia Coal operations 95% Ulan Coal Mines Limited Australia Coal operations 90% Ulan Power Company Pty Limited Australia Feasibility projects 100% Xstrata Coal Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Holdings Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Investments Australia Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Queensland Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Xstrata Energy Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Newpac Pty Limited Australia Investment company 100% Xstrata Coal Canada Limited Canada Investment company 100% Xstrata Coal South America Limited Bermuda Holding company 100% Tironimus AG Switzerland Holding company 100% Tavistock Collieries Pty Ltd South Africa Coal operations 100% Xstrata Coal Marketing AG Switzerland Marketing & trading 100% Xstrata Alloys Xstrata South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Holding company, Coal, Chrome 100% & Vanadium operations Char Technology Pty Ltd South Africa Char operation 100% African Fine Carbon Pty Limited South Africa Char operation 100% African Carbon Producers Pty Limited South Africa Char operation 100% Xstrata Copper Ernest Henry Mining Pty Ltd Australia Copper operation 100% Minera Alumbrera Limited Antigua Copper operation 50% Mount Isa Mines Limited Australia Copper, Lead and Zinc operations 100% Xstrata South America Limited Cayman Holding company 100% Xstrata Tintaya S. A. Peru Holding company 100% Compania Minera Xstrata Lomas Bayas Chile Copper operations 100% Xstrata Chile Inversiones Limitada Chile Holding company 100% Xstrata Copper Chile S. A. Chile Copper smelter 100% Xstrata Commodities Middle East DMCC UAE Marketing 100% Noranda Recycling Inc USA Copper recycling 100% Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 235 36.
Related Parties continued % of ordinary Country of shares held & Name incorporation Principal activities voting rights Principal Subsidiaries continued Xstrata Nickel Falconbridge International Investments Limited Bermuda Holding company 100% Falconbridge International Limited Barbados Nickel feeds acquisition 100% Falconbridge Dominicana C por A Dom.
Republic Ferronickel operation 85% Falconbridge U. S. Inc. U. S. A. Nickel marketing 100% Falconbridge Japan Ltd. Japan Nickel marketing 100% Falconbridge Europe S. A. Belgium Nickel marketing 100% Falconbridge Nikkelverk Aktieselskap Norway Nickel refinery 100% Falconbridge International S. A. Belgium Nickel procurement agent 100% Falconbridge Brasil Ltda Brazil Exploration 100% Xstrata Zinc Asturiana fide Zinc SA Spain Zinc smelter 100% Britannia Refined Metals Limited UK Lead smelter 100% McArthur River Mining Pty Ltd Australia Zinc operations 100% Xstrata Zinc GmbH Germany Zinc smelter 100% Xstrata Aluminium Noranda Aluminum, Inc. USA Aluminium operations 100% Xstrata Technology Xstrata Technology Pty Ltd Australia Technology operations 100% MIM Process Technology South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Technology operations 100% Other Xstrata Schweiz AG Switzerland Holding company 100% Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV Aruba Finance company 100% Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited UAE Finance company 100% Xstrata Holdings Pty Ltd Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Queensland Limited Australia Holding company 100% Falconbridge Limited Canada Copper, nickel and 100% Zinc operations Xstrata Finance Canada Limited Canada Finance company 100% Noranda Finance Inc. USA Finance company 100% Xstrata Canada Inc Canada Holding company 100% Alberta Limited Canada Holding Company 100% 236 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 36.
Related Parties continued Principal place of operations country of Effective Name incorporation Principal activities interest held Principal Joint Ventures Xstrata Coal Bulga Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 87.5% Douglas Tavistock Joint Venture South Africa Coal operations 16% Goedgevonden Joint Venture South Africa Coal operations 74% Foybrook Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 67.5% Liddell Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 67.5% Macquarie Coal Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 80% Narama Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 50% Newlands, Collinsville, Abbot Point Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 55% Oaky Creek Coal Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 55% Rolleston Pentland Wandoan Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 75% Ulan Coal Mines Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 90% United Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 95% ARM Coal Pty Limited South Africa Coal operations 49% CMC Coal Marketing Company Ltd Ireland Marketing & trading 33.33% Carbones fide Cerrejn LLC Anguilla Coal operations 33.33% Cerrejn Zona Norte SA Colombia Coal operations 33.33% Xstrata Alloys Samancor Joint Venture South Africa Chrome operations 50% Merafe Pooling and Sharing Venture South Africa Chrome operations 79.5% Mototolo Joint Venture South Africa Platinum operations 37% Xstrata Copper Antamina Joint Venture Peru Copper & Zinc operations 33.75% Collahuasi Joint Venture Chile Copper operations 44% Xstrata Nickel Kabanga Joint Venture Africa Nickel project 50% Koniambo Joint Venture New Caledonia Ferronickel project 49% Xstrata Zinc Lady Loretta Australia Zinc project 75% Lennard Shelf Australia Zinc project 50% Xstrata Aluminium Gramercy Alumina LLC USA Aluminium refinery 50% St. Ann Bauxite Limited Jamaica Bauxite operation 50% Principal Associates Xstrata Coal Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Ltd Australia Coal terminal 37.1% Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited Australia Coal terminal 20.0% Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Ltd South Africa Coal terminal 20.9% Xstrata Zinc Noranda Income Fund Canada Zinc refinery 25% This investment is treated as a subsidiary as the Group is entitled to 2 of the 4 Board positions of Minera Alumbrera Limited, including the Chairman as it is the manager of the copper operation.
The Chairman has the casting vote where any vote is split equally between the 4 board positions however in a limited number situations the vote must be unanimous, including transactions with related parties.
Directly held by the parent company.
40% held by the parent company.
90% held by the parent company.
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of these in the above list.
All entities operate mainly in the country of incorporation and these interests are held indirectly by the parent company unless otherwise indicated.
Related Parties continued During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties: Treatment Treatment Agency & Interest & refining & refining marketing & other Amounts Amounts US$m Sales Purchases charges revenue charges revenue payable receivable Glencore International AG 2006 3,703 940 258 8 63 37 317 2005 2,248 348 155 64 71 1 62 212 Joint venture entities 2006 100 4 224 586 2005 Associates 2006 362 58 14 1 166 2005 15 2 Includes share of joint ventures No provision for doubtful debts has been raised in respect of transactions with related parties Included in the transactions with Glencore are US$651 million 2005 US$761 million of back-to-back sales whereby the title to the goods has passed to Glencore but they are then on-sold to customers at the same sales price that the Group received.
Amounts payable and receivable, are included in Trade and other receivables refer to note 19 and in Trade and other payables refer to note 27, are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
Glencore International AG Substantial shareholder On 29 May 2003 Glencore International AG Glencore, Credit Suisse First Boston Equities Limited and Credit Suisse First Boston Europe Limited entered into a capital management programme.
Under the terms of this agreement in connection with the Groups acquisition of the MIM Group and the associated rights issue, Glencore, Credit Suisse First Boston Equities Limited and Credit Suisse First Boston Europe Limited had joint ownership over 253,699,767 ordinary shares representing 40.1% of the issued share capital of the Company at 31 December 2005.
On 20 December 2006, the Capital Management Arrangement between Glencore and Credit Suisse Group was terminated.
As at 31 December 2006, Glencore owned 35.7% of the issued share capital of the Company representing 336,801,333 ordinary shares.
Glencore was paid an underwriting fee of US$35 million for the ordinary shares they subscribed to refer to note 26.
Chrome Xstrata Alloys entered into a ferrochrome marketing agreement with Glencore on 21 April 1995, appointing Glencore as its exclusive world-wide marketing agent for the sale of Xstrata Alloys entire production of ferrochrome other than ferrochrome sold into the US, Canada and certain Asian countries.
The agreement continues for as long as Xstrata Alloys produces ferrochrome.
Glencore is obliged to use its best endeavours to arrange sales at prevailing market rates subject to initial agreement and approval by Xstrata Alloys prior to effecting the sale.
Glencore assists Xstrata Alloys in negotiating sales contracts with third parties.
Glencore is entitled to receive an agency fee of 3.5% on FOB sales revenues and an additional fee of 0.75% on FOB sales revenues for assuming the risk of non-payment by customers on this material.
Glencore assumes 60% of the risk of non-payment by customers in relation to ferrochrome sales.
If at any time Xstrata Alloys notifies Glencore that it is able to find purchasers for its production at prices higher than those generally obtainable by Glencore, Xstrata Alloys may, unless Glencore is able to obtain similar prices, sell its products in the market.
Glencore is nevertheless entitled to an agency fee of 3.5% of FOB sales revenue in respect of such sales.
Glencore is also entitled to receive a US$50,000 monthly fee in connection with market analysis and certain administrative tasks it performs for Xstrata Alloys.
238 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 36.
Related Parties continued Ferrochrome sold into the US and Canada is distributed by Glencore Ltd and Glencore Canada Inc respectively, under two distribution agreements.
These agreements continue indefinitely, with both parties having the right to terminate the agreement at 12 months notice.
The percentage of distribution fees payable by the Group in respect of ferrochrome sold under the distribution agreement is substantially the same as the commission paid in respect of ferrochrome sold under the marketing agreement.
Mitsui & Co. Ltd is the appointed distributing agent for ferrochrome sales into China, Japan and South Korea up to a maximum of 105,000 tonnes per annum.
A change in distributing agent for sales into these countries must be done with the consent of Glencore.
Vanadium In December 1997, the Group, entered into a 20-year marketing agreement with Glencore in respect of Rhovans and Vantechs closed in 2004 entire production of vanadium other than vanadium sold into the US and Canada.
Glencore is obliged to use its best endeavours to arrange sales of vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium to customers at prevailing market rates subject to initial agreement and approval by Xstrata Alloys prior to effecting the sale.
Xstrata Alloys is obliged to pay to Glencore an agency fee of 3.5% on FOB sales revenues and an additional fee of 1.5% on FOB sales revenues for assuming the risk of non-payment by customers on this material.
Glencore assumes 100% of the risk of non-payment by customers in relation to vanadium sales.
Glencore is nevertheless entitled to the 3.5% agency fees described above in respect of such sales.
Vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium sold into the US and Canada is distributed by Glencore Ltd and Glencore Canada Inc respectively, under two distribution agreements.
The distribution agreements have the same term as the marketing agreement and consequently, the percentage of distribution fees payable by the Group in respect of vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium is substantially the same as the commission paid in respect of vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium sold under the marketing agreement.
Coal In 2002, the Group entered into a 20-year market advisory agreement with Glencore with fee reviews at the end of every fifth year of the agreement.
Pursuant to this agreement, Glencore acts as the Groups market advisor with respect to its export production of coal other than for Cumnock No.
1 Colliery Pty Limited while it is not a wholly owned subsidiary and Xstrata Coals share of production from the Cerrejn thermal coal operation in Colombia.
The fee payable to Glencore is US$0.50 per attributable tonne of coal exported by the Group from Australia or South Africa.
In January 1995, Cumnock entered into a sales and marketing agreement with Glencore, for a commission of US$0.75 per tonne for all coal sold by Cumnock.
Pursuant to this agreement, Glencore provides sales and marketing services to Cumnock and Cumnock appoints Glencore as its agent to market coal.
The Group entered into market standard forward commodity price derivatives with Glencore as counter-party.
During the year ended 31 December 2006, 1,065,000 tonnes 2005: 945,000 tonnes were delivered at an average FOB price of US$56.31 per tonne 2005 US$57.80 per tonne.
At 31 December 2006, nil tonnes 2005: 765,000 tonnes were contracted with Glencore for delivery.
These derivatives are on arms length terms and conditions and are included within derivative financial assets and liabilities refer to notes 23, 30 and 37.
During the year ended 31 December 2006, 452,489 tonnes were borrowed from Glencore and 507,970 tonnes were transferred back to Glencore with 85,089 tonnes owed to Glencore at 31 December 2006 31 December 2005: 140,570 tonnes on arms length terms and conditions.
In 2006 the Group entered into a 3-year fuel supply agreement with Glencore to supply diesel fuels to coal mines in New South Wales and Queensland.
The supply agreement started in April 2006 and US$47 million were delivered to 31 December 2006.
The supply agreement is on arms length terms and prices change monthly according to the world market price per barrel US$ BBL.
In 2005 Cerrejn entered into a 4-year fuel supply agreement with Glencore to supply diesel fuels.
Since Xstrata acquired an interest in Cerrejn, Xstratas share of the fuel purchases totalled US$43 million to 31 December 2006.
The supply agreement is on arms length terms and prices change for each shipment according to the world market price per barrel US$ BBL.
All coal purchases and sales with Glencore are on arms length terms and conditions.
Related Parties continued 1 On 20 April 2006, the Group acquired a 33 3% interest in the Cerrejn thermal coal operation in Colombia for a cash consideration of US$1,719 million from Glencore refer to note 7.
Zinc During 2006, Xstrata Zinc renewed a service agreement for a period of 2 years with Glencore the Asturiana Service Agreement, under the terms of which Glencore provides advice and assistance with respect to the acquisition of mining and or metallurgical interests and advice in connection with Asturianas hedging policy and improvement of its position in the zinc market.
The fees to be paid by Asturiana under the Asturiana Service Agreement are US$2 million per annum.
Xstrata Zinc entered into an evergreen agreement with Glencore in 2004 to purchase 380,000 dmt 2005: 380,000 dmt per annum of zinc concentrate.
Treatment charges in respect of such purchases are negotiated annually on arms length terms and conditions.
In 2006, Xstrata Zinc San Juan fide Nieva and Nordenham agreed to supply Glencore with 220,000 tonnes 2005: 250,000 tonnes of SHG zinc slabs or CGG ingots during 2006 based on market FOB CPT prices plus the respective market premium.
In 2006 Xstrata Zinc McArthur River supplied Glencore with 262,400 wmt of zinc concentrate and has an agreement to supply this amount each year until 31 December 2009, after which it will become evergreen in nature.
Treatment charges are negotiated annually on arms length terms and conditions.
Xstrata Zinc Mt Isa has two agreements with Glencore for the supply of zinc concentrate from 2006 to 31 December 2008 after which they will become evergreen in nature.
The first agreement is to supply 90,000 wmt per annum.
The second agreement is to supply 80,000 wmt to 100,000 wmt per annum for the purpose of swapping Mt Isa concentrate in exchange for the same volume to be delivered to Xstratas European smelters at equivalent terms.
Xstrata Zinc Canada had an agreement to supply Glencore with 1,000 tonnes per month, during 2006 of SHG zinc slabs and Jumbos based on market delivery duty paid plus the respective market premium.
All purchase and sales transactions with Glencore are on arms length terms and conditions.
Copper Xstrata Copper has entered into sales agreements with Glencore in respect of the total available export allocation of copper cathode and surplus North Queensland copper concentrate not processed through its Mount Isa copper smelter for an initial 3-year period effective from 1 January 2004, and evergreen thereafter unless the agreement is terminated by either party with a minimum 12 month notice period.
The sales terms for the copper cathode are the LME price plus a range of premiums that is based on Codelco North Asian CIF Liner Terms less freight discounts by destination.
The sales terms for the copper concentrate are based on market prices less agreed metal content deductions, treatment and refining charges.
The treatment and refining charges for the benchmark portion 25% are fixed annually in line with annual benchmark terms.
The treatment and refining charges for the spot portion 75% are negotiated quarterly based on the prevailing spot market terms.
Xstrata Copper Minera Alumbrera Limited has entered into a frame contract with Glencore in respect of 20,000 to 40,000 dmt copper concentrate per annum expiring on 31 December 2004, thereafter evergreen with a 12-month termination period.
The sales terms for the copper concentrate are negotiated annually on arms length terms and conditions.
Minera Alumbrera Limited also has a fixed term contract for the sale of copper concentrate to Glencore for 40,000 dmt per annum in 2004, 2006 and 2007 as well as 60,000 dmt in 2005, expiring 31 December 2007.
The treatment charges are US$25 per tonne in 2004, US$30 per tonne in 2005, US$50 per tonne in 2006 and US$52 per tonne in 2007.
The refining charges are US2.5 cents per pound in 2004, US3.0 cents per pound in 2005, US5.0 cents per pound in 2006 and US5.2 cents per pound in 2007.
Minera Alumbrera Limited on occasions sells concentrate to Glencore at spot terms at prevailing spot market prices.
Minera Alumbrera Limited on occasions also sells concentrate to Glencore under swap arrangements at prevailing market prices.
All terms and conditions are set on an arms length basis.
Copper cathode sales agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper Canada and Glencore in the second half of 2006.
All sales were at spot term according to the prevailing market conditions.
Copper cathode and concentrate sales agreements were also entered into between Xstrata Commodities Middle East and Glencore in the second half of 2006.
All sales were at spot terms according to the prevailing market conditions.
240 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 36.
Related Parties continued Xstrata Copper North Queensland agreed to a copper concentrate purchase agreement with Glencore during 2006.
The purchase was at spot terms in accordance with the prevailing market conditions.
All sales transactions with Glencore are on arms length terms and conditions.
Nickel In 2004 Xstrata Nickel entered into two agreements with Glencore for the treatment of approximately 2,000 tonnes per annum of white alloy raw material feed to the Nikkelverk refinery in Norway and the Sudbury smelter in Canada.
The contracts include both a metal purchase and a metal return component.
The term of the contracts is to the end of 2009, continuing indefinitely thereafter unless terminated by either party with six months notice given not earlier than 1 July 2009.
Treatment and refining charges to Glencore are subject to price participation adjustments based on prevailing market prices.
Xstrata Nickel sells refined nickel and cobalt to Glencore on arms length terms and conditions, under annual contracts or spot arrangements, which are based on prevailing market rates.
Associates Coal Xstrata Coal has a number of investments in export coal terminals allowing it to export coal into overseas markets.
Xstrata Coal South Africa holds a 20.9% 2005: 20.9% interest in Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Ltd RBCT, a company that operates the coal terminal in Richards Bay, South Africa.
RBCT is governed by a consolidated agreement between the seven shareholders which deals with all aspects of the operation of the terminal.
All matters are decided by the board, membership of which is determined by shareholding.
All decisions must have an 80% majority.
Veto rights are held by BHP Billiton Ingwe, Anglo American and Xstrata Coal.
Xstrata Coal South Africa reimburses RBCT for its share of operating and capital expenditure.
Xstrata Coal Australia has a 20% 2005: 20% interest in Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited and a 37.1% 2005: 37.1% interest in Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Limited.
Xstrata Coal Australia reimburses these coal terminals for its share of coal loading and handling charges.
Zinc The Group has an effective 25% economic and voting interest in the Noranda Income Fund NIF, which owns a zinc refinery in , Quebec.
The Groups 's interest in the NIF are held as ordinary units of the partnership, which are subordinate to the priority units in respect of cash distributions in any month until May 3, 2017.
In addition, the Group has entered into a supply and processing agreement that continues until May 2, 2017 and is obligated to sell to the NIF up to 550,000 tonnes of zinc concentrate per year.
The NIF pays the Group a concentrate price, based on the price of zinc metal on the London Metal Exchange, for the payable zinc metal contained in the concentrate less a processing fee of US$31.31 per pound of such payable zinc metal at 31 December 2006.
Joint Venture Entities 1 Xstrata Coal has a 33 3% interest in the Cerrejn thermal coal operation in Colombia.
Xstrata Copper has a 33.75% interest in the Antamina joint venture in Peru and a 44% interest in the Collahuasi joint venture in Chile.
Xstrata Nickel has a 49% interest in the Koniambo ferronickel project in New Caledonia.
The amounts receivable include amounts advanced for project funding.
Remuneration of Key Management Personnel of the Group US$m 2006 2005 Wages and salaries 15 15 Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs 4 4 Share-based compensation plans 65 18 84 37 Includes amounts paid to Directors disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 136 to 139.
Financial Instruments The Groups significant financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank loans and overdrafts, convertible borrowings, capital market notes, finance leases and hire purchase contracts, and cash and short term deposits.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Groups acquisitions and operations.
The Group has various other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group is exposed to changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates in the normal course of business.
Derivative transactions are generally entered into solely to hedge these risks although hedge accounting under IAS 39 is only applied when certain criteria have been met.
Market fluctuations in derivative financial instruments designated as hedges are used to offset the fluctuations in the underlying exposure.
The Group generally does not hold derivatives for trading purposes.
Refer below and to the Financial Review on pages 51 to 52 for further discussion on the Groups strategies in respect of holding financial instruments.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk.
A treasury committee establishes the policies for managing each of these risks and the board reviews and agrees these policies.
The Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in Note 6. Credit risk The Group is mainly exposed to credit risk in respect of trade receivables, however given the geographical industry spread of the Groups customers, credit risk is believed to be limited.
Where concentrations of credit risk exist, management closely monitors the receivable and ensures appropriate controls are in place to ensure recovery.
Credit risk is minimal and not concentrated for other financial assets.
Credit risk is limited to the carrying amount of financial assets at the balance sheet date.
Details of guarantees given by the Group are outlined in note 34.
Interest rate risk It is the Groups preference to borrow and invest at floating rates of interest, notwithstanding that some borrowings are at fixed rates.
A limited amount of fixed rate hedging can be undertaken during periods where the Groups exposure to movements in short term interest rates is more significant.
In keeping with the Groups preference to borrow at floating rates of interest, the following interest rate swap contracts were outstanding at 31 December 2006: Principal Average Fair Principal Average Fair amount rate % value amount rate % value US$m 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 Fair value hedges: Interest rate swap from US$ fixed rates: Maturing between 1 to 2 years 111 8.48 6 Maturing between 3 to 4 years 600 4.5 11 Maturing between 4 to 5 years 1,050 5.69 1 600 4.5 10 Maturing greater than 5 years 1,750 6.30 12 Interest rate swap to US$ fixed rates: Maturing between 1 to 2 years 25 5.00 Maturing greater than 5 years 100 4.54 2 3,636 5.84 16 600 4.5 10 Relates to the Senior debentures refer to note 28 Relates to the Convertible borrowings refer to note 29 242 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 37.
Financial Instruments continued The interest rate risk profile of the Group as at 31 December 2006 was as follows: Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due within between between between between more than US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years 2006 Fixed rate by balance sheet category: Cash and cash equivalents 467 467 Other financial assets 116 116 Capital market notes 5 320 14 14 391 3,388 4,132 Equity minority interest loans 81 81 Convertible borrowings 201 324 525 Finance leases hire purchase contracts 147 14 16 10 27 28 242 Preference shares 134 67 201 Other loans 1 1 315 352 97 225 418 3,822 4,599 Fixed rate by currency: AUD 95 8 8 10 22 21 164 CAD 289 67 5 7 368 EUR 1 1 GBP 11 11 US$ 397 55 22 215 391 3,793 4,079 Other 2 2 315 352 97 225 418 3,822 4,599 Floating rate by balance sheet category: Cash and cash equivalents 1,181 1,181 Other financial assets 122 122 Capital market notes 500 500 Syndicated bank loan 1,677 3,353 4,063 9,093 Bank loans other 39 64 41 41 199 384 Bank overdrafts 143 143 Preference shares 103 103 Other loans 135 135 678 64 3,894 41 4,262 116 9,055 Floating rate by currency: AUD 57 57 CAD 132 103 235 EUR 13 13 GBP 1 1 US$ 658 64 3,893 41 4,262 10 8,908 ZAR 32 1 23 8 Other 9 9 678 64 3,894 41 4,262 116 9,055 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 243 37.
Financial Instruments continued The interest rate risk profile of the Group as at 31 December 2005 was as follows: Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due within between between between between more than US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years 2005 Fixed rate by balance sheet category: Cash and cash equivalents 197 197 Capital market notes 14 5 166 16 12 63 276 Convertible borrowings 555 320 875 Equity minority interest loans 81 81 Finance leases hire purchase contracts 15 138 11 13 9 43 229 168 143 177 29 576 507 1,264 Fixed rate by currency: AUD 174 132 6 7 9 24 4 GBP 9 9 US$ 14 8 171 22 567 483 1,265 ZAR 1 3 4 168 143 177 29 576 507 1,264 Floating rate by balance sheet category: Cash and cash equivalents 324 324 Other financial assets 31 31 Syndicated bank loan 106 971 1,077 Term bank loan 600 600 Bank loans other 7 1 2 2 1 13 Bank overdrafts 3 3 361 1 2 973 1 1,338 Floating rate by currency: AUD 59 59 EUR 10 10 GBP 1 1 US$ 471 972 1,443 ZAR 37 1 2 1 1 32 Other 3 3 361 1 2 973 1 1,338 The borrowings are subject to interest rate swaps The interest charged on floating rate financial liabilities is based on the relevant national inter-bank rates and re-priced at least annually.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
244 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 37.
Financial Instruments continued Borrowing facilities The Group has various borrowing facilities available to it.
The un-drawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2006 in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date are as follows: US$m 2006 2005 Expiring in: Less than 1 year 793 447 Between 3 to 4 years 407 29 1,200 476 Foreign currency risk Owing to the Groups significant operations in Australia, North America, South America, South Africa and Europe, the balance sheet and results can be affected significantly by movements in exchange rates.
The long term relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of most of the countries where the Group operates provides a degree of natural protection however in the short term it can be quite volatile.
The reporting currency of the Group is the US$, as this is the underlying economic currency of the Groups cash flows and the majority of borrowings are denominated in US$.
However overseas operations have cash flows in local currencies.
Financial Instruments continued Foreign currency hedges The Australian operations have entered into AUD US$ and CAD US$ exchange contracts to hedge a portion of their US dollar denominated revenue and third party loans.
The Group also enters into forward contracts to hedge specific one off foreign currency transactions.
The open foreign currency exchange contracts as at 31 December 2006 are as follows: Classified as Cash flow hedges: Average Average Contract forward Fair Contract forward Fair amount rate value amount rate value US$m 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 Forward contracts sell US$ buy AUD: Maturing in less than 1 year 143 0.7550 6 661 0.7468 14 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 11 0.7397 1 9 0.7329 154 0.7539 7 670 0.7466 14 Forward contracts sell US$ buy EUR: Maturing in less than 1 year 19 1.3125 1 1.2630 19 1.3125 1 1.2630 Forward contracts sell ZAR buy EUR: Maturing in less than 1 year 3 7.9685 1 7.8290 3 7.9685 1 7.8290 Forward contracts sell AUD buy GBP: Maturing in less than 1 year 1 0.3884 5 0.3927 1 0.3884 5 0.3927 Forward contracts sell US$ buy JPY: Maturing in less than 1 year 9 108.3762 1 9 108.3762 1 Forward contracts sell US$ buy CAD: Maturing in less than 1 year 5 1.5290 2 5 1.5290 2 Forward contracts sell CAD buy US$: Maturing in less than 1 year 1 1.5290 1 1.5290 8 14 An Australian subsidiary has designated its US$ denominated capital market notes as a fair value hedge of an investment in a US$ denominated South American operation refer to notes 24 and 28.
246 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 37.
Financial Instruments continued Classified as other derivatives: Average Average Contract forward Fair Contract forward Fair amount rate value amount rate value US$m 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 Forward contracts sell US$ buy CAD: Maturing in less than 1 year 790 1.14 17 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 111 1.57 40 901 1.19 23 Forward contracts sell CAD buy US$: Maturing between 4 to 5 years 300 1.54 88 300 1.54 88 65 Commodity price risk The Group is exposed to fluctuations in commodity prices, with the commodity mix spread fairly evenly between those which are priced by reference to prevailing market prices on terminal markets and those that are set on a contract basis with customers, generally on an annual basis.
Due to the volatile nature of commodity prices and the historical relationship between prices and the currencies of most of the countries where the Group operates, hedging may be entered into only in limited circumstances and subject to strict limits laid down by the Board.
Where exposure to commodity price movements results from processing contracts for which the Group has no underlying production, market risk from fluctuations on the commodity price will from time to time be hedged by LME futures or the OTC swap market.
Financial Instruments continued Commodity hedging The Australian and Americas operations have gold forwards and collars to hedge prices of future sales.
The Australian and South African operations have entered into coal forwards to hedge prices of future sales of coal.
Financial Instruments continued Classified as other commodity derivatives: Average Fair Average Fair price value price value Ounces US$ US$m Ounces US$ US$m 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 Gold forwards AUD denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 14,250 541.20 1 28,252 479.48 2 14,250 541.20 1 28,252 479.48 2 Gold forwards US$ denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 20,834 386.30 5 36,332 378.08 5 20,834 386.30 5 36,332 378.08 5 Gold options US$ denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 8,500 500-560 1 8,500 500-560 1 7 7 Average Fair Average Fair forward value forward value Ounces rate % US$m Ounces rate % US$m 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 Gold swaps AUD denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 30,000 1.5 1 13,166 1.5 1 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 40,600 1.5 30,000 1.5 1 Maturing between 2 to 3 years 10,600 1.5 58,300 1.5 Maturing between 3 to 4 years 16,500 1.5 81,200 1.5 1 117,966 1.5 2 Average Fair Average Fair price value price value Tonnes US$ US$m Tonnes US$ US$m 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 Copper forwards US$ denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 56,050 3,056.54 76 56,050 3,056.54 76 Zinc forwards US$ denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 41,321 1,412.05 20 41,321 1,412.05 20 101 Other commodity derivatives in 2005 also includes zinc and lead forward contracts that were closed out from offsetting sales positions with settlement deferred into 2006 until the maturity dates of the sales forward contracts, with a loss of US$14 million.
250 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements 37.
Financial Instruments continued Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying value and fair values of the Groups financial instruments that are not carried at fair value in the financial statements at 31 December: Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value US$m 2006 2006 2005 2005 Financial Liabilities: Capital market notes 4,132 4,200 276 271 Convertible borrowings 525 519 875 873 Equity minority interest loans 81 80 81 80 Finance leases 242 242 229 229 Preference shares 201 203 Other loans 11 Market rates at 31 December 2006 have been used to determine the fair value of fixed interest loans.
The fair value of the liability portion of the convertible bonds are estimated using an equivalent market interest rate of a similar liability that does not have a conversion option as at the origination of the bond refer to notes 26 and 29.
Events After Balance Sheet Date Convertible Bonds In February 2007, 22,832,325 ordinary shares were issued as a result of conversions by the holders of the Convertible Bonds refer to note 29.
On 15 March 2007, Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV exercised its right to call for the redemption of all of the outstanding convertible bonds.
The terms and conditions of the bonds permit Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV to redeem all of the bonds at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest up to and including the date fixed for redemption, following the exercise of 85% or more of the Convertible Bonds originally issued.
Issue of ordinary shares On 31 January 2007, 4,000,000 shares were issued to the ESOP at a market price of GBP23.58 per share.
Bakwena Ba Mogopa Community Joint Venture On 9 January 2007 the Group and the Bakwena Ba Mogopa Traditional Community the Community agreed terms for a US$82 million Black Economic Empowerment BEE transaction in respect of the Groups South African Rhovan vanadium facility.
The Community is the surface owner of the property on which the facility is located.
Through the transaction, the Community will have an effective 26% participation in the Groups vanadium business through a pooling and sharing venture.
The transaction will also enable the Community to participate in any expansions on competitive terms.
The transaction is subject to the standard regulatory approvals and is expected to be completed by 30 June 2007.
