Investors 109 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 2006 Annual General Meeting of Yell Resolution 4 Group plc the Company will be held at The Plaisterers Hall, No.
1 That John Condron be re-elected as a director.
London Wall, London, EC2Y 5JU on Thursday 20 July 2006 at 11.00am to consider the following resolutions.
Resolution 5 That John Davis be re-elected as a director.
OrdinaryResolutions Resolution 1 Resolution 6 That the report of the directors and auditors, and the audited accounts That Lyndon Lea be re-elected as a director.
of the Company, for the year ended 31 March 2006 be received and considered.
Resolution 7 That Lord Powell of Bayswater be re-elected as a director.
The directors are required by law to present to the shareholders of the Company at a general meeting the report of the directors and Resolution 8 auditors, and the audited accounts of the Company, for the year That Bob Scott be re-elected as a director.
The report of the directors and the audited accounts have been approved by the directors, and the report of the Resolution 9 auditors has been approved by the auditors, and a copy of each of That Charles Carey be re-elected as a director.
these documents may be found in the Annual Report of the Company starting at page 41.
Resolution 10 That John Coghlan be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 2 That the final dividend of 10.2 pence per ordinary share in the Resolution 11 Company recommended by the directors be declared and, if That Joachim Eberhardt be re-elected as a director.
approved, payable on 25 August 2006 to holders of ordinary shares in the Company registered at the close of business on 28 July 2006.
Resolution 12 That Richard Hooper be elected as a director.
It is a requirement of law that the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006 be approved by the shareholders of the Company.
As a matter of best practice, all of the directors of the Company The amount to be declared as a final dividend may not exceed the believe that they should retire and submit themselves for re-election at amount recommended by the directors.
As Richard Hooper is a new appointment, shareholder consent to his election to the Board is Resolution 3 required at the 2006 Annual General Meeting, the first such meeting That the report on the remuneration of directors for the year ended since his appointment.
Biographical details of all of the directors of the Company may be The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require found in the Annual Report of the Company starting at page 32. companies to include certain specified information on the remuneration of their directors for each financial year in a report and Resolution 13 to give their shareholders an opportunity to approve such report.
The That  LLP be reappointed auditors of the report on the remuneration of the directors of the Company for the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general year ended 31 March 2006 may be found in the Annual Report of the meeting of the Company before which accounts are laid.
The auditors are responsible for examining the annual accounts of the Company and forming an opinion as to whether they give a true and fair view of its results and financial position.
It is a requirement of law that the Company appoint auditors at each meeting at which accounts are presented to its shareholders, such appointment to continue until the next meeting at which accounts are presented.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Investors 110 Resolution 14 The Companies Act 1985 now includes provisions which require That the directors be authorised to determine the remuneration of companies to obtain authority from their shareholders before they can the auditors.
make donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
The definitions of donations and EU political This resolution gives the directors of the Company the authority to expenditure are very broad and, as a result, may cover activities determine the remuneration of the auditors for the audit work to be which form part of the normal non-partisan relationships between carried out by them in the next financial year.
The amount of the companies and the political world, even though these activities are remuneration paid to the auditors for the next financial year will be not designed to support a particular political party or to influence disclosed in the next audited accounts of the Company.
support for any political party, and would not be considered as political donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
Resolution 15 That the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised under The Company does not, directly or through any of its subsidiaries, Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot relevant securities as make donations to any political parties and the Company does not defined in that Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of have any intention of doing so in the future.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next does in a regulated environment, the Company has a business need Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of this to maintain contact with politicians and political parties within the EU resolution.
However, before this authority expires, the Company may to make them aware of key issues affecting the Company and its make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant subsidiaries, and the industry in which the Company and its securities to be allotted after the authority expires and the directors subsidiaries operate.
This can involve, for example, involvement in may allot relevant securities under any such offer or agreement as if seminars and functions to which politicians may be invited and the authority had not expired.
sponsoring meetings at political parties conferences.
Accordingly, in common with other companies, the Company is seeking the approval Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 provides that the directors of a of its shareholders, on a precautionary basis so as to avoid company cannot issue new shares in its capital without the approval contravening the Companies Act 1985, to incur a level of expenditure of its shareholders.
Accordingly, the purpose of this resolution is to give to cover all of these activities.
the directors of the Company authority to issue new shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum amount of 1,615,347 Special Resolutions which is approximately equivalent to 21 per cent of the issued Resolution 17 ordinary share capital of the Company as at 5 June 2006.
This That, provided resolution 15 has been passed, the directors be resolution will allow the directors of the Company flexibility to act in authorised under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity the best interests of the Company and its shareholders by issuing new securities as defined in that Act for cash pursuant to the authority shares in appropriate circumstances.
conferred on them by resolution 15, or where such allotment constitutes the allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94 of that Act, as Resolution 16 if section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment.
This That the Company, and each of Yell Limited and Yellow Pages Sales authority is limited to: Limited wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, be authorised to: a Allotments connected to a rights issue to holders of ordinary a Make donations to EU political organisations shares in the Company excluding any ordinary shares held by the b Incur EU political expenditure Company as treasury shares where the rights of each such holder are, as nearly as may be, proportionate to the number of ordinary in an aggregate amount not exceeding 100,000 during the period shares held by such holder.
The directors may exclude certain ending on the date of the next Annual General Meeting.
For the shareholders, deal with fractions and generally manage the rights purpose of this resolution 16, the phrases donations, EU political issue as they think fit organisations and EU political expenditure shall have the meanings b The allotment other than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of set out in Part XA of the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 387,392 Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Investors 111 This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General d this authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM or, if Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of this resolution.
earlier, 15 months from the date of this resolution.
However, before However, before this authority expires, the Company may make an this authority expires, the Company may agree to purchase offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be ordinary shares in the Company where the purchase will or may allotted after the authority expires and the directors may allot securities be completed, either fully or partly, after the authority expires and under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
the Company may purchase such ordinary shares as if the authority had not expired Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 gives existing shareholders in a company certain pre-emption rights with respect to allotments of new The directors consider, in certain circumstances, that it may be shares.
A company can only disapply these rights with the approval appropriate and in the best interest of shareholders generally for the of its shareholders.
Accordingly, the purpose of this resolution is to Company to purchase its own shares.
This resolution gives authority allow the directors of the Company to allot ordinary shares in the for the Company to purchase up to 77,478,527 ordinary shares which Company for cash, or to transfer treasury shares for cash, other than is approximately equivalent to 10 per cent of the issued share capital to its existing shareholders on a pre-emptive basis up to a maximum of the Company as at 5 June 2006.
The directors have no specific amount of 387,392 which is equivalent to 5 per cent of the issued plans to exercise any authority granted by this resolution in the future, ordinary share capital of the Company as at 5 June 2006 and is in but will keep the matter under review and will only make purchases line with the recommended guidelines issued by institutional investor where, in the light of prevailing market conditions, they consider it will bodies.
result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share in the Company.
Resolution 18 The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the That, pursuant to Article 20 of its Articles of Association, the Company Company outstanding as at 5 June 2006 was 24,250,378.
This be generally and unconditionally authorised to purchase its own represents 3.13 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the fully-paid ordinary shares in the Company by way of market purchases Company at that date.
If the Company were to buy back the within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to the passing of this provided that: resolution and cancel them, then the total number of options to a The maximum number of ordinary shares in the Company that the subscribe for shares in the Company outstanding as at 5 June 2006 Company may purchase is 77,478,527 would represent 3.48 per cent of the reduced issued ordinary share b The minimum price that the Company may pay for an ordinary capital of the Company.
share in the Company is 1.00 pence c The maximum price which the Company may pay for an ordinary The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares share in the Company is not more than the higher of: Regulations 2003 which came into force on 1 December 2003 enable companies to retain any of their own shares they have purchased as i an amount equivalent to 105 per cent of the middle market treasury shares with a view to their possible re-issue at a later date, price for an ordinary share in the Company as set out in the rather than cancelling them as the law previously required.
The Daily Official List published by London Stock Exchange for the Company will consider holding any of its own shares that it purchases five business days immediately before the day on which the pursuant to this resolution as treasury shares, which will give the Company agrees to purchase ordinary shares in the Company, directors flexibility in the management of the capital base of the or Company.
No dividends will be paid on treasury shares while held in treasury, and no voting rights will attach to them.
ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange Only holders of ordinary shares in the Company on the Register of Trading System SETS the trading venue where the purchase Members of the Company on 18 July 2006 at 11am are entitled to is carried out attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
A holder of ordinary shares in the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to vote on his behalf.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Investors 112 Electronic proxy appointment through CREST Documents CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the The following documentation is available for inspection during CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual business hours at the registered office of the Company on any General Meeting to be held on 20 July 2006 and any adjournment s weekday not including public holidays.
They will also be available thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
for inspection at the Annual General Meeting venue, from 9.30am until CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and the meeting concludes.
those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service Register of interest of directors and their families in the share provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their capital of the Company behalf.
Copy of all service contracts between the directors and the Company In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST Copy of the Articles of Association of the Company service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Printed copies of this Notice of Annual General Meeting and Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with the Companys Annual Report 2005 06 CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for Further copies of the Companys Annual Report can be sent to such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, shareholders on request, or viewed on the Companys website at regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to www.
an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received By Order of the Board by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should Howard Rubenstein be communicated to the appointee through other means.
Company Secretary CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available 9 June 2006 special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006
