Directors Reports 42 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Policy and practice on payment of current liabilities Statement of Directors responsibilities It is the Companys policy to use its purchasing power fairly and to Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements pay promptly and as agreed.
Payment terms for purchases under for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of major contracts are settled as part of the contract negotiations.
It is the affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Companys policy to make payments for other purchases within Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements the 30 days following the end of the month in which a correct and valid directors are required to: invoice is received.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently At 31 March 2006, trade payables represented 18 days 2005 Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 15 days of purchases.
The Company has no significant trade prudent payables.
State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Post balance sheet events explained in the financial statements Please see note 31 to the financial statements.
Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors continue in business Each director of the Company confirms that: a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors The directors confirm that they have complied with the above are unaware: and b that he has taken all the steps that he ought to requirements in preparing the financial statements.
have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records auditors are aware of that information.
For these purposes, relevant that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial audit information means information needed by the Companys position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure auditors in connection with preparing their report set out on page 51. that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Auditors They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors, prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
they having confirmed their willingness to act, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The directors are responsible for maintaining the integrity of the financial information, including the Annual Report, on the Yell Group Annual General Meeting plc website, www.
Legislation in the UK concerning the The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, to be held on 20 July preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 2006, together with explanatory notes appears on pages 109-112. legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board Howard Rubenstein Company Secretary Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006
