Shareholder information Glossary AGS EW MoD Advanced Gun System: a 155mm gun Electronic Warfare.
system being developed under the NEC DD X programme.
An advanced tactical fighter aircraft in ASTRAEA service with the USAF.
Nimrod MRA4 Autonomous Systems Technology Related The replacement Maritime and Patrol Attack Airborne Evaluation & Assessment: a FALCON aircraft for the UKs Royal Air Force.
programme that focuses on the An information infrastructure system for the technologies, systems, facilities and British Army.
PAAMS procedures that will allow autonomous Principal Anti-Air Missile System.
Aster vehicles to operate safely and routinely FCS PAAMS: a medium-range anti-aircraft vertical in the UK.
launching missile system based on the Aster 15 and Aster 30 anti-missile missiles.
ATAM FRES Air-To-Air Mistral a very short-range air Future Rapid Effect System: The UK PCL defence missile system.
Ministry of Defence MoD programme Performance Centred Leadership: a to provide the British Army with a family leadership and performance management ATTAC of medium-weight, network-enabled, system used throughout the Company.
Availability Transformation: air-deployable armoured vehicles.
RAF FV430 Bulldog The UKs Royal Air Force.
RSAF ALH The Royal Saudi Air Force.
BONUS Advanced Light Helicopter: a multi-role, A sensor fused 155mm munition.
RG-31, RG-32 and RG-33 Mine protected armoured personnel carriers.
Bradley IDIQ Tracked armoured fighting vehicles, which Indefinite-Delivery Indefinite-Quantity: a SAMP T fulfil critical infantry, cavalry, fire support, US government contract allowing flexibility A land-based air defence system battle command and engineer roles for the for orders.
incorporating the Aster 30 missile, US Army.
ISO14001 C4ISR The standard for environmental management SEP Command, Control, Communications and A modular multi-role vehicle system.
published by the International Standards Computing C4, Intelligence, Surveillance Organisation, which specifies the actual and Reconnaissance ISR : systems that SETAC requirements for an environmental provide a precise picture of the battlefield in System Engineering and Technical management system.
real-time, optimising the information Assistance Contract.
CfPE Safety, Health and Environment.
LCM SUAV E Lifecycle Management: a process and control CV90 Strategic Unmanned Air Vehicle Experiment.
environment within which the Companys An armoured infantry fighting vehicle projects are executed.
developed by BAE Systems Land Systems Stingray Mod 1 Hagglunds to meet international demand.
LRLAP Long Range Land Attack Projectile: CVF T93 radar a system being developed under the The UKs future aircraft carrier.
DDG-1000 UAV M88 Hercules A next-generation destroyer for the US Navy.
DIS UCAV M113 The Defence Industrial Strategy, published Unmanned Combat Air Vehicle.
Armoured personnel carriers, medical, by the UK government in December 2005 command and control, and engineering following consultation with industry, USAF mortar launching vehicles.
recognises the skills and capabilities that United States Air Force.
will be needed to equip and support the UK armed forces and ensure the UK defence M777 UUV industry remains world-leading.
DoD Milan ER VLS United States Department of Defense.
An extended range anti-armour missile.
