Shareholder feedback If you would like to give us any feedback on this years Annual Report, please send your written comments to our investor relations team at: BAE Systems plc 6 Carlton Gardens London SW1Y 5AD United Kingdom or by email to andy.
com For more information visit: www.
com The paper used in this document contains a minimum of 50 per cent post consumer waste.
It also has FSC certification and is sourced from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Shareholder information BAE Systems plc Annual Report 2006 BAE Systems plc Annual Report 2006 6 Carlton Gardens London SW1Y 5AD United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1252 373232 Registered in England and Wales No.
com Cover image: BAE Systems, with its partners, is delivering the Type 45 anti-air warfare destroyer.
The Group has responsibility for the design, development and delivery for the class.
The through-life support arrangements are now under discussion, with initial packages on contract.
See overleaf for an overview of our business today Shaping our business Cautionary statement Information key All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this document, including, without limitation, Cross reference those regarding the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of BAE Systems and its strategy, 67 plans and objectives and the markets and economies in which it operates, are forward-looking statements.
within report Such forward-looking statements which reflect management's assumptions made on the basis of information available to it at this time, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors which For more information visit could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of BAE Systems or the markets and economies www.
com in which BAE Systems operates to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this document shall be regarded as a profit forecast.
BAE Systems plc and its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this report save as would arise under English law.
In particular, section 463 Companies Act 2006 limits the liability of the directors of BAE Systems plc so that their liability is solely to BAE Systems plc.
