Shareholder information Financial calendar If you hold your shares in uncerticated form in the CREST system, you may elect to participate in the DRIP by means of the CREST procedures that require 2007 the use of the Dividend Election Input Message in accordance with the 25 April Ex-dividend date for final 2006 ordinary dividend CREST Manual.
27 April Final 2006 ordinary dividend record date Shareholder information on the internet and electronic communications 10 May Annual General Meeting The Balfour Beatty website at www.
com offers shareholders 30 May Ex-dividend date for July 2007 preference dividend and prospective investors a wealth of information about the Company, 1 June July 2007 preference dividend record date its people and businesses and its policies on corporate governance and 11 June Final date for receipt of DRIP mandate forms see below corporate responsibility.
It should be regarded as your first point of reference 1 July Preference dividend payable for information on any of these matters.
2 July Final 2006 ordinary dividend payable Computershare Investor Services PLC have introduced a facility enabling Balfour Beatty shareholders to access details of their shareholding over the 15 August Announcement of 2007 half-year results internet subject to complying with an identity check.
You can access this 12 December Interim 2007 ordinary dividend payable service via the shareholder information section of the Balfour Beatty website at www.
You can also obtain information on recent trends 2008 in Balfour Beattys share price.
1 January Preference dividend payable Balfour Beatty actively supports eTree, a programme designed to promote shareholder communication through electronic means rather than Provisional dates.
paper, by rewarding every shareholder who switches with a sapling to be planted on behalf of the Woodland Trusts Tree for All campaign.
To register, Registrar and transfer ofce or to nd out more, please visit www.
This service enables you to save paper, contribute to a better environment and give a child All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings should, in the first the chance to plant a tree.
instance, be directed to the Companys Registrars and clearly state the In order to receive shareholder communications such as notices of shareholders registered name and address and, if available, the full shareholder meetings and the annual report and accounts electronically shareholder reference number.
Please write to: rather than by post, you need to register your details at The Balfour Beatty plc Registrar www.
Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH Unsolicited mail or telephone calls Telephone 0870 702 0122 or by email to: web.
co. uk Balfour Beatty is obliged by law to make its share register available on request or visit www.
com to other organisations who may then use it as a mailing list.
This may result They can help you to: in you receiving unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the receipt of unsolicited check your shareholding: mail, you may do so by writing to the Mailing Preference Service, an register a change of address or name: independent organisation whose services are free to you.
Once your name obtain a replacement dividend cheque or tax voucher: and address have been added to its records, it will advise the companies record the death of a shareholder: and other bodies that support the service that you no longer wish to receive amalgamate multiple accounts: unsolicited mail.
If you would like more details, please write to: resolve any other question about your shareholding.
Mailing Preference Service Computershares Investor Centre also allows you to view your shareholding Freepost 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT and update your address and payment instructions online.
You can register or visit the Mailing Preference Service website at www.
In order to register, you need your In addition, it has come to our attention that in the past, some of our shareholder reference number, which you can nd on your share certicate shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence or tax voucher.
concerning investment matters from organisations or persons claiming or implying that they have some connection with the Company.
These are Dividend mandates typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering If you wish dividends to be paid directly into your bank or building society to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in account, you should contact the Registrars for a dividend mandate form.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any Dividends paid in this way will be paid through the Bankers Automated unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports Clearing System BACS.
Information about Balfour Beattys Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: can also be obtained from the Registrars.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend for 2006 will be paid make sure that you obtain the correct name and address of the person and on 2 July 2007.
If you have already elected to join the DRIP, then you need the organisation: take no further action.
If you wish to join the DRIP, then you should apply check that they are properly authorised by the Financial Services online at www.
com Investor UK or, alternatively, you can Authority the FSA before getting involved.
You can check at complete a mandate form and return it to the Registrars.
uk register: DRIP mandate form, please contact the Registrars.
The Registrars must receive your completed mandate by no later than 11 June 2007 in order to participate in the DRIP for this dividend.
Applications received by the Registrars after that date will be effective for the following dividend.
110 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 the FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas rms Share dealing services who are targeting, or have targeted UK investors, and any approach from The Company has established an execution-only postal share dealing service, such organisations should be reported direct to the FSA Consumer Helpline through JPMorgan Cazenove Limited, for private investors who wish to buy Telephone: 0845 606 1234 so that this list can be kept up to date and any or sell Balfour Beatty plcs shares.
Further details can be obtained from: other appropriate action can be considered.
Alternatively, you can report such approaches online via the FSAs website at The Balfour Beatty Share Dealing Service www.
uk Pages Doing Regulated Law Alerts form.
If you JPMorgan Cazenove Limited deal with an unauthorised rm, you will not be eligible to receive payment 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
More detailed Telephone: 020 7155 5155 information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website Alternatively, Hoare Govett Limited also offers a low-cost, execution-only, at www.
You should also report any approach postal share dealing service for UK resident individuals.
Further details can to Operation Archway, an initiative by the City of London Police be obtained from: which combines the resources of the FSA, the Serious Fraud Ofce, the Serious Organised Crime Agency and every police force in the UK: Hoare Govett Limited LCSD email operationarchway@city-of-london.
250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA Telephone: 020 7678 8300 Identity theft Both JPMorgan Cazenove Limited and Hoare Govett Limited are authorised Identity theft has become a growing concern within financial services and and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
poses an increasing threat to investors, including individual shareholders who are at particular risk from this type of fraud.
Criminals may steal your personal Share price information, putting your shareholding at risk.
You may therefore wish to take The Balfour Beatty share price can be found at the Balfour Beatty website the following precautions: at www.
com and in the appropriate sections of national ensure that all of your share certicates are kept securely in a safe place or newspapers under the classication Construction and Building Materials.
hold your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee: It is also available on Ceefax and Teletext and a number of personal finance keep all correspondence from the Registrars which shows your shareholder websites on the Internet.
Historic share prices are available from the library reference number securely in a safe place, or destroy correspondence by at Hoare Govett.
You should only divulge your shareholder reference number if The London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List SEDOL codes are: requested to do so by the Registrars or an appropriate professional adviser Ordinary shares: 0096162 eg your stockbroker or solicitor: Preference shares: 0097820 if you use the Registrars services via their website, you should ensure that your username and password are kept condential at all times.
The London Stock Exchange ticker codes are: Never respond to an email asking you to disclose your online Ordinary shares: BBY password information: Preference shares: BBYB if you change address, please inform the Registrars.
If you receive a letter from the Registrars regarding a change of address and have not Capital gains tax recently moved, please contact them immediately.
You may be a victim For capital gains tax purposes the market value on 31 March 1982 of Balfour of identity theft: Beatty plcs ordinary shares of 50p each was 307.3p per share.
This has been make sure that you know when the Company pays its dividends and adjusted for the 1-for-5 rights issue in June 1992 and the 2-for-11 rights issue consider having them paid directly into your bank or building society account in September 1996. through BACS, if you have not already done so.
This will reduce the risk of your cheque being intercepted or lost in the post.
If you change your bank or Enquiries building society account, please inform the Registrars of the details of your new account.
If, for example, a dividend payment or share certicate is late, Enquiries relating to Balfour Beattys results, business and financial please telephone the Registrars immediately and check the address to position should be made in writing to the Corporate Communications which it has been sent.
Please respond to any letters that the Registrars Department at the Companys Registered Ofce address or by e-mail send you about any of these issues: to info@balfourbeatty.
if you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers registered in your country of residence or the UK.
Gifting shares to your family or to charity To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please ask the Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer form.
Alternatively, if you only have a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider donating them to the share donation charity ShareGift registered charity no.
1052686, whose work Balfour Beatty supports.
Any shares that you donate to ShareGift will be aggregated, sold when possible, and the proceeds will be donated to a wide range of other UK charities.
Since ShareGift was launched, over 10m has been given to more than 1,200 charities.
The relevant share transfer form may be obtained from Balfour Beatty plc the Registrars: further information about the scheme is available from the Registered Ofce: 130 Wilton Road, London SW1V 1LQ ShareGift Internet site www.
Registered in England Number 395826 111 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 112 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Introduction Balfour Beatty is a world-class engineering, construction, services and investment business well positioned in infrastructure markets which offer significant long-term growth.
We work in partnership with sophisticated customers who value the highest levels of quality, safety and technical expertise.
Our skills are applied in appropriate combinations to meet individual customer need.
Our strategy, which is set out in the following pages, is designed to continue to deliver reliable, responsible growth in shareholder value over the long term.
2006 performance Percentage increase 2006 2005 decrease Revenue including joint ventures and associates 5,852m 4,938m 19% Pre-tax profit before exceptional items and amortisation 152m 134m 13% after exceptional items and amortisation 125m 141m 11% Earnings per share adjusted 27.3p 24.1p 13% basic 21.2p 24.9p 15% Dividends per share 9.1p 8.1p 12% Order book 9.1bn 7.6bn 20% Financing net cash before PPP subsidiaries non-recourse 305m 315m net borrowings of PPP subsidiaries non-recourse 21m 14m Before exceptional items and amortisation Strong growth in profits and earnings Strong operating cash performance Good progress in strategic acquisition and investment programme Record order book PRIVATE INVESTOR AWARDS 2003 WINNER Dividend increase of 12% Design and production: Radley Yeldar London Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Balfour Beay Annual report and accounts 2006, Reliable responsible growth Print or online?
its quick and easy online... its more environmentally friendly online... its more cost-effective online.
Why not view our online annual report at: www.
com bbeatty ir reports Balfour Beatty plc 130 Wilton Road London SW1V1LQ Telephone: 44 0 20 7216 6800 Facsimile: 44 0 20 7216 6950 www.
com Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc
