NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2006 3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED a Market risk continued iii Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings note 26.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest-rate risk.
The Group manages its cash flow interest-rate risk by using: floating-to-fixed interest-rate swaps, caps, floors and collars.
Interest-rate swaps have the economic effect of converting borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates.
Under the interest-rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals mainly quarterly, the difference between fixed contract rates and floating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional principal amounts.
b Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
It has policies in place to ensure that rental contracts are made with customers with an appropriate credit history.
Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high-credit-quality financial institutions.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution.
c Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group Treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
3.2 Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded derivatives, and trading and available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current ask price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses its judgement to select a variety of methods and make assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of interest-rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
4 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and based on historical experience as adjusted for current market conditions and other factors.
4.1 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
a Estimate of fair value of investment properties The best evidence of fair value is current prices in an active market for similar lease and other contracts.
In the absence of such information, the Group determines the amount within a range of reasonable fair value estimates.
In making its judgement, the Group considers information from a variety of sources including: i Current prices in an active market for properties of different nature, condition or location or subject to different lease or other contracts, adjusted to reflect those differences: ii Recent prices of similar properties in less active markets, with adjustments to reflect any changes in economic conditions since the date of the transactions that occurred at those prices: and iii Discounted cash flow projections based on reliable estimates of future cash flows, derived from the terms of any existing lease and other contracts, and where possible from external evidence such as current market rents for similar properties in the same location and condition, and using discount rates that reflect current market assessments of the uncertainty in the amount and timing of the cash flows.
