NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2006 34 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of CLS Holdings plc and all of its subsidiaries, the principal ones of which are listed below.
The Directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length.
The following information relates to those wholly owned subsidiary companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the figures of the Group.
All of these subsidiaries were incorporated in England and Wales with the exception of Vnerparken Property Investment KB, which is incorporated in Sweden, Hamersley International BV which is incorporated in the Netherlands, and Hermalux SARL which is incorporated in Luxembourg.
Brent House Limited Hermalux SARL Three Albert Embankment Limited Carlow House Limited Ingrove Limited Vauxhall Cross Limited CI Tower Investments Limited Mohican Nominees Limited Vnerparken Property Investment KB Citadel Holdings PLC New London House Limited Vista Centre Limited CLSH Management Limited New Printing House Square Limited Great West House Limited One Leicester Square Limited Hamersley International BV Spring Gardens Limited The principal activity of each of these subsidiaries is property investment apart from CLSH Management Limited whose principal activity is property management, Citadel Holdings PLC, Hermalux SARL, and Hamersley International BV whose principal activity is as a holding company.
To comply with the Companies Act 1985, a full list of subsidiaries will be filed with the Companys next annual return.
35 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE i Acquisitions Bulgarian Land Development plc BLD On 20 February 2007, CLS Holdings plc agreed to subscribe to 7,211,878 shares at a price of 1 per share in BLD which is listed on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange.
BLD develops residential and commercial property opportunities in Bulgaria.
On 14 March 2007 Per Sjberg, Chief Executive Officer of CLS Holdings plc, became Non-Executive Chairman of BLD.
The new subscription will increase the stake of CLS in BLD to 11,461,787 shares, representing 28.65 per cent of the issued share capital.
ii Income tax On 21 March 2007 the Chancellor proposed a reduction in the Corporation tax rate in the UK from 30 per cent to 28 per cent effective from 1 April 2008.
In accordance with the IFRS provisions, the existing rate of 30 per cent is still used as a basis for the calculation of the deferred tax stated.
An estimate of the financial effect of this change cannot be made due to the uncertain timing of the reversal or crystallisation of the deferred tax provisions.
