NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2006 1 GENERAL INFORMATION CLS Holdings plc the Company and its subsidiaries together CLS Holdings or the Group is an investment property group which is principally involved in the investment, development and management of commercial properties.
The Groups principal operations are carried out in the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Sweden.
The Company is registered in the UK, registration number 2714781, of registered address: 26th Floor, Portland House, Bressenden Place, London SW1E 5BG.
The Company has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES: The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of CLS Holdings have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, and the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investment property and financial instruments including available-for-sale financial assets and derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss or equity, as appropriate.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are described in note 4.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
New standards and interpretations There are a number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations which are mandatory for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Management have considered the new requirements and consider that they are not relevant or do not have a material impact for the Group.
This is the case for the following: IAS 21, amendment, Net investment in a foreign operation IAS 39, amendment, Cash flow hedge accounting of forecast intragroup transactions IAS 39, amendment, Fair value option IAS 39 and IFRS 4 amendment, Financial guarantee contracts IFRS 6, including amendments, Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources IFRIC 4, Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease IFRIC 5, Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds, and IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market Waste electrical and electronic equipment.
In accordance with the requirements of IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease the Group has reviewed its sales and purchases arrangements to ascertain whether any of them effectively contain a lease with the Group acting as either lessor or lessee and no changes in accounting treatments are considered necessary.
The following new standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective and have not been adopted early by the Group: IFRIC 7, Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29 IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment IFRIC 11, Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and the complementary amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements Capital disclosures, and IFRS 8, Operating Segments The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the financial statements in the period of initial application.
56 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2006 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.2 Consolidation a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
b Joint ventures The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by proportionate consolidation.
The Group combines its share of the joint ventures individual income and expenses, assets and liabilities and cash flows on a line-by-line basis with similar items in the Group financial statements.
The Group recognises the portion of gains or losses on the sale of assets by the Group to the joint venture that is attributable to the other venturers.
The Group does not recognise its share of the profits or losses from the joint venture that result from the Groups purchase of assets from the joint venture until it resells the assets to an independent party.
If the loss provides evidence of an impairment loss, or in the case of current assets evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value below cost or which takes it to below cost, it is recognised immediately.
c Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
2.3 Segment reporting A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
2.4 Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
57 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2006 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.4 Foreign currency translation continued b Transactions and balances continued Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in foreign currency classified as available-for-sale are analysed between translation differences resulting from changes in the amortised cost of the security and other changes in the carrying amount of the security.
Translation differences related to changes in the amortised cost are recognised in profit or loss, and other changes in the carrying amount are recognised in equity.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets such as equities classified as available-for-sale are included in the fair value reserve in equity.
c Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at the average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : and iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity cumulative translation adjustment.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to the cumulative translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
2.5 Investment property Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the companies in the consolidated Group, is classified as investment property.
Investment property comprises freehold land, freehold buildings, land held under operating leases and buildings held under finance leases.
Land held under operating leases is classified and accounted for as investment property when the rest of the definition of investment property is met.
The operating lease is accounted for as if it were a finance lease.
Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs.
After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value.
Fair value is based on active market prices, adjusted, if necessary, for any difference in the nature, location or condition of the specified asset.
If this information is not available, the Group uses alternate valuation methods such as recent prices on less active markets or discounted cash flow projections.
These valuations are performed in accordance with the guidance issued by the International Valuation Standards Committee.
These valuations are reviewed semi-annually by external valuers.
Investment property that is being redeveloped for continuing use as investment property, or for which the market has become less active, continues to be classified as investment property and measured at fair value.
The fair value of investment property reflects, among other things, rental income from current leases and assumptions about rental income from future leases in the light of current market conditions.
The fair value also reflects, on a similar basis, any cash outflows that could be expected in respect of the property.
Some of those outflows are recognised as a liability, including finance lease liabilities in respect of land classified as investment property: others, including contingent rent payments, are not recognised in the financial statements.
Subsequent expenditure is charged to the assets carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefit associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Changes in fair values are recorded in the income statement.
If an investment property becomes owner-occupied, it is reclassified as property, plant and equipment, and its fair value at the date of reclassification becomes its cost for accounting purposes.
Property that is being constructed or developed for future use as investment property is classified as property, plant and equipment and stated at cost until construction or development is complete, at which time it is reclassified and subsequently accounted for as investment property.
If an item of property, plant and equipment becomes an investment property because its use has changed, any differences resulting between the carrying amount and the fair value of this item at the date of transfer is recognised in equity as a revaluation of property, plant and equipment under IAS 16.
However, if a fair value gain reverses a previous impairment loss, the gain is recognised in the income statement.
58 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2006 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less subsequent depreciation and impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Property, plant and equipment 45 years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
2.7 Financial assets The Group classifies its investments in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition and reviews this designation at each reporting date.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently this amount is adjusted to redemption amount using the amortised cost method.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
c Held-to-maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has a positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
During the year, the Group did not hold any investments in this category.
d Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit and loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains or losses from investment securities.
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not active and for unlisted securities, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect the issuers specific circumstances.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
59 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2006 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.8 Goodwill and intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of net identifiable assets including intangible assets of the acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in investments in associates.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise: acquired separable trade names, customer relationships, technology and internally generated capitalised development and other costs.
Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and in respect of business combinations are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, the cost model is applied to intangible assets.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as being either finite or infinite, where this is determined to be finite the intangible assets are amortised over their useful lives.
A summary of the policies applied to the Groups intangible assets is as follows: Useful lives Amortisation method Trade names finite 11 years straight line Customer relationships finite 10-11 years straight line Technology finite 4 years straight line Capitalised development and other costs infinite n a Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment in any periods in which events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
2.9 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
2.10 Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently adjusted to amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any required provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment in trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
2.11 Inventories Properties that are being developed for future sales are reclassified as inventories at their deemed cost, which is the carrying amount at the date of reclassification.
They are subsequently carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less cost to complete redevelopment and selling expenses.
2.12 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale and are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount is recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale, and: represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
2.13 Impairment of assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
2.14 Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the amount initially recognised and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
60 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2006 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.15 Income tax The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-taxable or disallowed.
It is calculated using the rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax payable on capital gains realised on investment properties that have been revalued in previous periods is included in the current tax charge and any related deferred tax provision is released.
Deferred income tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method.
Provision is made for temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the values used for tax purposes.
Temporary differences are not provided for when they arise from initial recognition of assets and liabilities that do not affect accounting or taxable profit.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and is calculated using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the tax jurisdiction in which the temporary differences arise.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be used.
The deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset if there is a legally enforceable right of set off.
When distributions are controlled by the Group, and it is probable the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future, deferred tax which would arise on the distribution of profits realised in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is provided in the same period as the liability to pay the distribution is recognised in the financial statements.
2.16 Provisions Provisions for legal claims are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Where the Group, as a lessee, is contractually required to restore a leased property to an agreed condition, prior to release at the end of a lease, provision is made for such costs as they are identified.
2.17 Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and is stated net of sales taxes and value added taxes.
Revenue includes Rental and similar revenue, Service charge and similar revenue, Revenue from web based operations.
Revenue is recognised as follows: Revenue from investment property: a Rental and similar revenue Rental revenue from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
When the Group provides incentives to its customers, the cost of incentives are recognised over the lease term, on a straight-line basis, as a reduction of rental revenue.
b Service charge and similar revenue Service and management charge revenue is recognised on a gross basis in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
Where the Group is acting as an agent, the commission rather than gross revenue is recorded as revenue.
Revenue from other investments: c Revenue from web based operations Revenue from the sale of goods and services is booked when the revenue can be calculated in a reliable way, and the risks and benefits have been transferred to the buyer.
Revenues are booked net, i. e. after deductions for VAT and discounts.
2.18 Leases a A Group company is the lessee i Operating lease leases in which substantially all risks and rewards of ownership are retained by another party, the lessor, are classified as operating leases.
Payments, including prepayments, made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
ii Finance lease leases of assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the lease commencement date at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in current and non-current borrowings.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The investment properties acquired under finance leases are carried at fair value.
61 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2006 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.18 Leases continued b A Group company is the lessor i Operating lease properties leased out under operating leases are included in investment property in the balance sheet.
ii Finance lease when assets are leased out under a finance lease, the present value of the lease payments is recognised as a receivable.
The difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the receivable accrues as finance income.
Lease income is recognised in revenue over the term of the lease using the net investment method before tax, which reflects a constant periodic rate of return.
2.19 Employee benefits a Pension obligations The Group operates various defined contribution plans.
The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available.
b Share-based compensation The Group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, the employee remaining in the Groups employment.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of revising original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
2.20 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such treasury shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
2.21 Tender offer buy-backs In lieu of paying dividends, a distribution by way of a tender offer buy-back is made twice yearly.
Shares purchased by way of the tender offer are retained as treasury shares but only to a maximum of 10 per cent of the issued share capital.
Where the Company purchases its own shares out of free reserves and the shares are subsequently cancelled, a sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased shall be transferred to the capital redemption reserve account.
The total cost of a tender offer buy-back is charged to retained earnings.
2.22 Exceptional items Exceptional items are those significant items which are separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Transactions which may give rise to exceptional items are principally gains or losses on disposals of investments, subsidiaries and early termination of debt instruments.
2.23 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives The Group uses derivatives to help manage its interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: i hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : ii hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges : or iii hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
