NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2006 1 GENERAL INFORMATION The financial statements have been prepared under UK GAAP in accordance with applicable accounting standards under the historical cost convention.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
CLS Holdings plc is the ultimate parent company of the CLS Holdings group.
Its primary activity is to hold shares in subsidiary companies.
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2.1 Investment in Group Companies Investments have been valued at cost.
If the equity value of the investment is lower than the cost price, this valuation will be adjusted accordingly, provided that the Management considers this to be a permanent diminution in value.
Dividend income will be recognised when received.
2.2 Turnover Turnover comprises recharge of professional fees received by the Company but applicable to Group undertakings.
2.3 Pension costs The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme for all eligible employees.
The pension costs charged to the profit and loss account represent the contributions payable.
2.4 Share-based compensation The Company operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, the employee remaining in the Companys employment.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of revising original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
2.5 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such treasury shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
2.6 Tender offer buy-backs In lieu of paying dividends, a distribution by way of a tender offer buy-back is made twice yearly.
Shares purchased by way of the tender offer are retained as treasury shares but only to a maximum of 10 per cent of the issued share capital.
Where the Company purchases its own shares out of free reserves and the shares are subsequently cancelled, a sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased shall be transferred to the capital redemption reserve account.
The total cost of a tender offer buy-back is charged to retained earnings.
3 PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the parent Company's profit and loss account has not been presented in these financial statements.
The parent Company's retained profit for the financial year was 53,552 thousand 2005: Loss of 2,152 thousand.
Audit fees for the Company were 35 thousand 2005: 35 thousand.
4 TENDER OFFER BUY-BACKS As noted in the Directors Report it is proposed that the Company buy back 1 in 41 shares at 750 pence per share in lieu of a final dividend 2005: 1 in 42 shares at 600 pence per share.
In lieu of an interim dividend the Company bought back 3 in 43 shares at 740 pence per share in November 2005: 1 in 60 shares at 510 pence per share in November.
