NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2006 1 GENERAL INFORMATION CLS Holdings plc the Company and its subsidiaries together CLS Holdings or the Group is an investment property group which is principally involved in the investment, development and management of commercial properties.
The Groups principal operations are carried out in the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Sweden.
The Company is registered in the UK, registration number 2714781, of registered address: 26th Floor, Portland House, Bressenden Place, London SW1E 5BG.
The Company has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES: The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of CLS Holdings have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, and the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investment property and financial instruments including available-for-sale financial assets and derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss or equity, as appropriate.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are described in note 4.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
New standards and interpretations There are a number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations which are mandatory for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Management have considered the new requirements and consider that they are not relevant or do not have a material impact for the Group.
This is the case for the following: IAS 21, amendment, Net investment in a foreign operation IAS 39, amendment, Cash flow hedge accounting of forecast intragroup transactions IAS 39, amendment, Fair value option IAS 39 and IFRS 4 amendment, Financial guarantee contracts IFRS 6, including amendments, Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources IFRIC 4, Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease IFRIC 5, Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds, and IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market Waste electrical and electronic equipment.
In accordance with the requirements of IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease the Group has reviewed its sales and purchases arrangements to ascertain whether any of them effectively contain a lease with the Group acting as either lessor or lessee and no changes in accounting treatments are considered necessary.
The following new standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective and have not been adopted early by the Group: IFRIC 7, Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29 IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment IFRIC 11, Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and the complementary amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements Capital disclosures, and IFRS 8, Operating Segments The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the financial statements in the period of initial application.
