NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2006 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.23 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities continued Hedge accounting Where a financial instrument is designated as a hedge, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item as well as its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking the various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting the changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
a Fair value hedge accounting Changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify and are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
b Cash flow hedge accounting For qualifying cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated with the effective portion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially directly in shareholders equity, and recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit and loss.
Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecasted transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
c Hedges of net investments Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised directly in equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recognised in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
d Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 3.1 Risk management factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest-rate risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by the central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest-rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
a Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Euro and the Swedish Kroner.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised monetary assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations which are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
The primary management of currency exposure arising from the translation of net assets of the Groups foreign operations in France, Germany and Sweden is through denominating borrowings in the relevant foreign currencies.
To manage the residual foreign exchange risk the Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts transacted by Group Treasury.
Group Treasury is responsible for managing the net position in each foreign currency by using external forward currency contracts.
ii Price risk The Group is exposed to property price and market rental risks.
The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the Group and classified on the consolidated balance sheet either as available-for-sale, or at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group is not exposed to commodity price risk.
