Accounting Policies Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985, applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available for sale assets.
A summary of the more important group accounting policies is set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards allows a number of exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS for those companies adopting IFRS for the first time.
The Group has taken advantage of certain of these exemptions as follows: The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations retrospectively to business combinations that were completed prior to 1 July 2004.
The Group has elected to apply IFRS 2 Share-based payments to all grants of equity instruments after 2 November 2002 that had not vested as at 1 January 2005.
The Group has elected to apply the corridor approach to IAS 19 Employee benefits and cumulative actuarial gains and losses were recognised within the net obligation as at 1 July 2004, the beginning of the first IFRS reporting period.
Basis of consolidation The Group accounts include the results of the holding company and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to 30 June.
The financial statements of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated from the date when control passed to the Group using the acquisition method of accounting and up to the date of disposal.
All transactions with subsidiaries and inter-company profits or losses are eliminated on consolidation.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, all of the subsidiarys identifiable assets and liabilities existing at the date of acquisition are recorded at their fair values reflecting their conditions at that date.
All changes to those assets and liabilities, and the resulting gains and losses that arise after the Group has gained control of the subsidiary are included in the post-acquisition income statement.
Revenue Revenue comprises the total proceeds of building and development on legal completion excluding inter-company transactions and value added tax.
The sale proceeds of part exchange houses are not included in turnover.
Segmental reporting As all of the Groups operations are within the United Kingdom, which is one economic environment in the context of the Groups activities, there are no geographic segments to be disclosed.
As all the Groups operations are in construction there are no business segments to be disclosed.
Dividends Interim dividends are recognised as a liability in the financial statements at the time that they are paid, and final dividends are recognised at the time of agreement by the shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Inventories Inventories and work in progress, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials, direct labour costs and those overheads, which have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Land held for development, including land in the course of development, is initially recorded at fair value.
Where, through deferred purchase credit terms, the fair value differs from the amount that will ultimately be paid in settling the liability, this difference is charged as a finance cost in the income statement over the period of settlement.
Due to the scale of the Groups developments, the Group has to allocate site-wide development costs between units built in the current year and in future years.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on such developments.
In making these assessments there is a degree of inherent uncertainty.
The Group has developed internal controls to assess and review carrying values and appropriateness of estimates made.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets on a straight line basis to their residual value over their estimated useful lives.
Residual values and asset lives are reviewed annually.
Freehold properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over twenty five years.
Plant is depreciated on a straight line basis over its expected useful life, which ranges from one to seven years.
Leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement in equal instalments over the life of the lease.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees and has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Sharebased payments.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
40 Accounting Policies Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are tax deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Pensions Defined contribution The group operates a defined contribution pension schemes for certain employees.
The Groups contributions to the schemes are charged against profits in the year in which the contributions are made.
Defined benefit For the defined benefit scheme, the obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The calculation of the net obligation is performed by a qualified actuary.
The operating and financing costs of these plans are recognised in the income statement: service costs are spread systematically over the lives of the employees and spread over a number of years, as an adjustment to the pension expense in the income statement, making use of the 10% corridor to reduce volatility.
The pension assumptions made by the Groups actuary are stated in Note 18, these assumptions are based on estimated rates and should the actual rates differ the pension liability of the Group would change.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities approximate to fair value.
Available for sale assets These financial assets are initially recognised at the transaction price, and subsequently measured at each balance sheet date at fair value, with movements in the fair value of the assets being recognised directly in equity.
On disposal of these financial assets the difference between the carrying value and the consideration received including any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is included in the income statement.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on extended terms, particularly in respect of land, are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate.
The discount to nominal value, which will be paid in settling the deferred purchase terms liability, is amortised over the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs using the effective interest rate method.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash and balances in bank accounts with no or short notice.
Bank borrowings Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges are accounted for on an accrual basis to the income statement.
Impact of Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS6 - Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources IFRS7 - Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRIC4 - Determining whether an Arrangement contains a lease IFRIC5 - Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds IFRIC6 - Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market waste electrical and electronic and electronic equipment.
IFRIC7 - Applying the restatement approach under IAS29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economics.
The Directors expect that, with the exception of the additional financial instruments disclosures required by IFRS7 `Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will not have any significant impact on the financial statements of the Group or Company.
