Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the forty eighth annual general meeting of Barratt Developments PLC the Company will be held at the Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell Square, Wood Street, London, EC2Y 5BL on 28th November 2006 at 2.30pm for the following purposes: 1.
To receive and adopt the reports of the auditors and directors and the accounts for the year ended 30th June 2006.
Mr S J Boyes who retires by rotation.
Mr C Fenton who retires by rotation.
Mr G K Hester who retires by rotation.
Mr M A Pain who retires at the first annual general meeting following his appointment by the Board.
Mr R MacEachrane who retires at the first annual general meeting following his appointment by the Board.
Mr M S Clare who retires at the first annual general meeting following his appointment by the Board.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for year ended 30th June 2006 be and is hereby approved.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of which resolution 11 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution and resolutions 12 and 13 will be proposed as special resolutions.
That the Board be and it is generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,684,804 being 23.88% of the nominal value of the existing issued share capital as at 27th September 2006 provided that this authority shall expire on the date of the next annual general meeting after the passing of this resolution save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
That the Board be and it is hereby empowered, pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 11 subject to the passing of resolution 11 and or where such allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of the said Act, as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: a in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders excluding any person holding ordinary shares as treasury shares where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them provided that the directors may make such arrangements in respect of overseas holders of shares and in respect of fractional entitlements as they consider necessary or convenient: and b otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,215,760 being 5% of the nominal value of the existing issued share capital as at 27th September 2006, and shall expire on the date of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
17 Notice of Annual General Meeting 13.
That the Company be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of its ordinary shares of 10p each Ordinary Shares provided always that: a this authority is limited to a maximum aggregate number of 24,315,195 Ordinary Shares: b the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share, contracted to be purchased on any day, shall be the higher of i an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the closing middle market quotation for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange Official List at the time the purchase is carried out: and c the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share, is 10p exclusive of expenses.
The authority hereby conferred shall, unless renewed prior to such time, expire on the conclusion of the Companys next annual general meeting or, if earlier, 27th May 2008 save that the Company may before such expiry enter into a new contract under which a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry and the Company may purchase Ordinary Shares in pursuance of such contract as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Registered Office By order of the Board Rotterdam House L Dent 116 Quayside Secretary Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 3DA 12th October 2006 Notes: i Any member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of the member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
ii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those shareholders registered at 6pm on 27th November 2006 will be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the numbers of shares registered in their names at that time.
Subsequent changes to the register will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
iii CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting to be held on 28th November 2006 and at any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
iv Copies of contracts of service of the directors with the Company and the register of the directors interests will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 2.15pm until the conclusion of the meeting.
