Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Second Annual General distributable profits, as treasury shares, by way of an Meeting of F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited will be amendment to the Companys articles of association as held at Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, set out in the proposed articles of association to be Guernsey GY1 3QL on Thursday 17 May 2007 at 12.30 tabled at the Annual General Meeting which will replace pm for the following purposes.
the Companys existing articles of association.
That the limit of the remuneration payable to directors of To consider and, if thought fit, pass the the Company be changed from 125,000 to 200,000, by way of an amendment to the Companys articles of following as Ordinary Resolutions: association as set out in the proposed articles of 1.
That the accounts and the reports of the Directors and association to be tabled at the Annual General Meeting of the Auditors for the year ended 31 December 2006 which will replace the Companys existing articles of be received and approved.
That Mr P Niven, who retires by rotation, be re-elected 9.
That the articles of association of the Company be as a Director.
amended to reflect the changes requested pursuant to resolutions 7 and 8 by deleting the existing articles of 3.
That Mr B W Sweetland, who retires annually, be reassociation in their entirety and replacing them with the elected as a Director.
articles of association as tabled at the Annual General 4.
That KPMG Channel Islands Limited be re-appointed as Meeting.
That the Directors be authorised to determine the Auditors remuneration.
Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited To consider and, if thought fit, pass the Secretary following as a Special Resolutions: Trafalgar Court 6.
That the Company be authorised, in accordance with Les Banques section 5 of The Companies Purchase of Own Shares St Peter Port Ordinance, 1998 the Ordinance, to make market Guernsey GY1 3QL purchases within the meaning of section 18 of the Ordinance of ordinary shares of 90p each Ordinary 9 March 2007 Shares either for retention as treasury shares for future resale or transfer, or cancellation, provided that: Notes: 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99 per cent vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
of the issued Ordinary Shares on the date on which 2.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The form of this resolution is passed: proxy should be completed and sent, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a b the minimum price which may be paid for an notarially certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach Computershare Investor Services CI Limited, Ordnance House, Ordinary Share shall be 90p: 31 Pier Road, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PW not later than 12.30 pm on 15 May 2007. c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which 3.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a member may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be 105 per from attending in person at the Meeting and voting should he or cent of the average of the middle market quotations she so wish.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and also for the as derived from the Daily Official List for the purposes of calculating how many votes a member may cast on Ordinary Shares for the five business days a poll a member must first have his or her name entered on the immediately preceding the date of purchase: and register of members not later than 12.30 pm on 15 May 2007.
Changes to entries in the register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the vote at such Meeting.
authority hereby conferred shall expire at the 5.
The existing Articles of Association and the Directors letters of conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the appointment will be available for inspection for 15 minutes prior to, and at, the Annual General Meeting.
Company to be held in 2008, or on 16 November 6.
In the opinion of the Directors it is beneficial for the Company to be 2008, whichever is the earlier, save that the able to hold treasury shares as permitted under the Companies Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a Purchase of Own Shares Treasury Shares Ordinance, 2006.
The proposed amendments to the articles of association will allow the contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under such Company to retain any shares bought back as treasury shares for authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary future re-issue and re-sale or transfer or to cancel any such shares.
Shares pursuant to any such contract.
During the period when the Company holds shares as treasury shares the rights and obligations in respect of those shares may not be exercised or enforced by or against the Company.
That the Company be authorised, in accordance with the Company may not exercise any voting rights or make or receive section 1 of The Companies Purchase of Own Shares any dividend or other distribution whether in cash or otherwise of the Companys assets including any distribution of assets to Treasury Shares Ordinance, 2006, to hold any shares, members on a winding up in respect of those shares.
The purchased by it in accordance with the Companies maximum number of shares of any class that can be held as treasury shares by the Company is 10 per cent of the aggregate Purchase of Own Shares Ordinance, 1998, and out of nominal value of all of the issued shares in that class.
