136 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Glossary of terms Property Assured periodic tenancy APT Market-rented tenancy arising from succession from regulated.
Tenant has security of tenure.
Assured shorthold tenancy AST Market-rented tenancy where landlord may obtain possession if appropriate notice served.
Assured tenancy AT Market-rented tenancy where tenant has right to renew.
Investment value IV Open market value of a property subject to relevant tenancies in place.
Home reversion Rent free tenancy where tenant has right of occupation until possession is forfeited usually on death.
If tenant retains an equity interest in the property this is a partial home reversion.
Regulated tenancy Tenancy regulated under 1977 Rent Act, rent usually sub market set by rent officer and tenant has security of tenure.
Tenanted Residential TR Activity covering the acquisition, renting out and subsequent sale usually on vacancy of residential units subject to a tenancy agreement.
Vacant possession value VP Open market value of a property free from any tenancies.
Corporate Grainger NAV NNNAV adjusted for the after tax value of the reversionary surplus in our regulated and equity release portfolios discounted back to present value using our risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital over the expected average period of realisation.
Base case and sensitivities exist.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Mandatory for UK listed companies for accounting periods ending on or after 31 December 2005.
These are Graingers first financial statements prepared under IFRS.
137 Financial Cap Financial instrument which, in return for a fee, guarantees an upper limit for the interest rate on a loan.
Contingent tax The amount of tax that would be payable on the difference between the carrying value of trading properties as recorded in the balance sheet and their market value.
Dividend cover Earnings per share divided by dividends per share.
Earnings per share EPS profit attributable to shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue in the year.
Hedging The use of financial instruments to protect against interest rate movements.
IAS 39 Accounting standard containing complex rules for the recognition of the market value of long term debt and financial instruments.
Interest cover profit on ordinary activities before interest and tax divided by net interest payable.
Loan to value LTV Ratio of net debt to the market value of properties.
Net asset value NAV Shareholders funds adjusted for the market value of property assets held as stock, and adding back deferred tax.
Net net asset value triple net or NNNAV NAV adjusted for contingent tax liabilities which would accrue if assets sold at market value and for the market value of long term debt and derivatives.
Swap Financial instrument to protect against interest rate movements.
Total Shareholder Return TSR Return attributable to shareholders on basis of share price growth with dividends reinvested.
Weighted average cost of capital WACC The weighted average cost of funding the groups activities through a combination of shareholders funds and debt.
138 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate addresses Newcastle Putney Luxembourg Citygate 1st Floor 5 Parc dActivite Syrdall St James Boulevard SW15H Building L-5365 Munsbach Newcastle upon Tyne 73-75 Upper Richmond Road Luxembourg NE1 4JE London Germany Tel: 0191 261 1819 SW15 2SR D-68161 Mannheim London Manchester Germany 161 Brompton Road St Johns House Willy-Brandt-Platz 3 London Barrington Road Malta SW3 1QP Altrincham Suite 1, 17 Tel: 020 7795 4700 Cheshire Sir A Bartolo Street WA14 1TJ Birmingham Ta Xbiex The Circle Oxford Malta Harborne East 24 Ireland Birmingham Central 127 57 Herbert Lane B17 9DY Milton Park Dublin 2 Abingdon Ipswich Ireland Oxford 42a Barrach Square OX14 1SE Martlesham Heath Ipswich Exeter Suffolk Lower Ground Floor IP5 3RF 4 Barneld Crescent Southernhay Exeter www.
co. uk EX1 1RF 139 140 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 This report has been produced on paper from a sustainable source by an environmentally accredited printing company.
This report has been printed by Empress Litho Ltd who are accredited with the ISO 14001 environmental management system.
Produced entirely using vegetable based inks which contain environmentally friendly, replenishable vegetable oils.
On average 87% of all waste associated with the production of this report is recycled.
The paper is made from at least 40% recovered bre and 60% virgin bre from plantation and sustainable forests.
This report is recyclable and bio-degradable.
Designed and produced by corporateedge.
