2 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 grainger  Graingers strategy is to provide its shareholders with sustained superior returns through its long term exposure to all aspects of the residential market.
Our ambition is to use our residential skills to become one of Europes leading co-investing fund managers.
our six areas of operation regulated tenancies market tenancies equity release This mature business is low yielding These assets are let at market rates on The assets in this business produce no but produces high reversionary returns.
standard assured shorthold tenancy rental income year-on-year, but a high A key aspect of this portfolio is that agreements.
Not only do they produce margin on eventual sale.
It therefore it is extremely cash generative.
With a market rent but they also offer an has similar return characteristics to the approximately 9% of the total properties element of reversionary potential through regulated portfolio despite its relative falling vacant every year, it produces in their discount to vacant possession immaturity.
We aim to build this activity excess of 100m cash per annum which value.
We now operate these assets both in size and scope: achieving a is available for recycling either into other through our recently launched Fund, portfolio that will produce a large future regulated assets or into other parts of G:res 1, and our objectives are to raise stream of cash ow but also widening the Grainger business.
Our objective for further equity in this Fund and grow the types of retirement solution product this part of the business is to continue the assets under management.
to invest as much as expected returns as sharing in the performance of our and availability allow.
co-investment stake, we receive fees, enhancing our overall return.
PAGE 4 PAGE 6 PAGE 8 3 Our strategy is currently applied through: Within the business we use numerous benchmarks to measure operational performance and to assess direct ownership of a high quality, reversionary the success of our strategy in creating long term portfolio of residential properties: shareholder value.
Key amongst these are: our property and asset management skills which Total shareholder return: not only service our own portfolio but which produce income from third parties: and Return on shareholder equity: and our development division which delivers returns Return on capital employed.
from changes of use or density and from development.
property and development europe asset management This represents the core skill of the This division gives us valuable exposure We aim to provide a similar mix of Grainger business.
It includes the to another side of the residential market, return proles as our UK businesses.
ability to manage large-scale residential building on our residential expertise, In Germany, our portfolio produces a net portfolios from the point of view of funding capability and ability to work rental return after nancing costs whilst both an investor and a manager.
Our in partnership with a variety of other also providing an opportunity for capital objectives are to continue to provide organisations such as housing growth.
Our objective is to successfully a cost effective high quality service to associations, local councils, other acquire sufficient assets to use as the our tenants and to generate additional developers and occupiers.
Our objective basis of a third party fund and to recycle fee income for the group by selling is to produce a consistent stream of some of the capital released into new that service to third party owners.
This good quality returns by focusing on opportunities.
ties very closely with our market-rented larger scale, mixed use developments.
properties which are largely held in a fund in which we have secured third party investors.
PAGE 10 PAGE 12 PAGE 14 4 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 graingerinvests Regulated tenancies Grainger own over 7,700 regulated residential properties, valued at over 1bn.
Our tenants have security of tenure and pay a fair rent.
This portfolio is core to our business and provides significant, predictable ongoing cash ows from rents and sales proceeds.
Graingers core business remains the ownership, management and trade of residential properties which are subject to regulated tenancies.
Under this arrangement, the tenant can stay in the property for the rest of their life.
The rent is set by an independent rent officer and is usually less than that which would be achieved if the property was let on the open market.
We buy these properties at a discount to vacant possession value the price achievable without a tenant in place to reect the low rent we receive and the fact that the tenant has lifetime rights of occupation.
When the tenant leaves we sell the property into the owner-occupier market, realising the discount and any house price ination from the date of purchase.
14% These properties give us two sources of income rents and the profits made when they are sold.
The size and geographic spread of the portfolio NORTH & SCOTLAND 261m 18% some 7,700 units across the UK, combined with the fact that we buy and sell properties over long periods of time, help to protect us against MIDLANDS EAST 331m some of the risks associated with residential investment in particular 20% a short term or localised fall in house prices.
Due to a change in the law, no new regulated tenancies have been OTHER SOUTH 363m created since January 1989 so the overall number in existence is falling 48% from year to year.
We make every effort to replace the regulated properties that fall vacant and are then sold but inevitably the portfolio will decline over time.
The management and trading skills that we have developed over many years working with the regulated portfolio are now being applied to our other areas of residential ownership such as equity release LONDON 864m and market let properties.
WHOLE UK RESIDENTIAL PORTFOLIO BY GEOGRAPHY, INCLUDING SHARE OF JOINT VENTURES M INVESTMENT VALUE 5 LOCK HOUSE was purchased ESSEX PORTFOLIO GLOUCESTER ROAD, South at auction.
This unique property one of the 21 attractive, rural, Kensington, London was acquired in East London is occupied by regulated properties acquired in June 2006.
Three of the six a regulated tenant.
in October 2005. apartments are regulateds.
WALBOTTLE HALL COTTAGE forms part of a mixed tenure portfolio of 84 properties, acquired in September 2006 from the Duke of Northumberland.
The properties are predominantly located in attractive and desirable rural locations where excellent capital growth potential exists.
the vacant possession value of our 7,715 regulated properties is 1,403m 6 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 graingerlets Market tenancies are those properties let at market rates on assured shorthold tenancy agreements, typically six months or a year in length.
The majority of these are now held in our recently launched co-investment Fund, G:res 1.
Although Graingers core tenanted residential business has been in regulated tenancies, we also built up a large high quality market-rented portfolio of properties, much of which came from our acquisition of City North Group plc in 2005.
During the course of the year, in common with many other property companies, we transferred these assets some 1,044 units worth approximately 200m to a Jersey Property Unit Trust with a view to attracting third party equity investment into the fund.
The successful first close was announced on 22 November 2006 with committed equity from a number of institutional investors.
This, together with currently available bank finance of up to 125m, should enable this fund to grow to achieve significant assets under management.
Such structures enable us to not only retain a geared exposure to the residential investment market through our retained ownership but also to provide us with a valuable source of both property and asset management fees, enhancing the overall return.
There is also the potential to earn performance fees.
In addition to providing management services to G:res 1, we also continue as property advisor and provide property management services to Schroders ResPUT, a market let fund.
We also own a 22% stake in this fund, which at the year end was valued at some 19m.
7 THE COURTYARD, KEMPSHOT PARK is a block of 25 apartments G:res 1 has property with a total value of and two retail units specically developed by Grainger in 2005 for the letting market.
All of the apartments were let within one month 210m following completion of the works.
The building has a gross yield of approximately 6%.
PITMASTON COURT, Birmingham, is a purpose-built 1930s art deco block comprising 65 recently refurbished ats.
SHILLINGTON OLD SCHOOL, Clapham, formerly a Victorian school, now comprises 58 apartments and studios.
BETHNAL GREEN is a mixed use estate in East London.
There is a rolling programme of refurbishment and improvement.
8 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 graingerinnovates Equity release offers home owners in or near retirement the opportunity to access some of the value of their home while continuing to live there for the rest of their lives.
Grainger specialises in home reversions, which can provide customers with both certainty and access to more cash than a lifetime mortgage.
Grainger constantly seeks innovative ways to maintain long term investment exposure to the housing market.
One of our major initiatives over the last few years has been in the area of exible retirement solutions and in particular, the sale of home reversion plans.
These plans are part of the wider equity release market and enable home owners to raise cash from what is usually their most significant asset their home.
Under a typical plan, we buy some or all of a home owners property for a lump sum or series of payments which depend on the value of the property, the age of the owner s and the proportion they wish to sell.
The owner can then stay in the property, rent free, for the rest of their life or until they decide to leave.
At that point, Grainger is able to sell the property and realise its profit.
The long term cash ows from this business provide a good strategic t with the cash ows already being generated by the regulated tenancy business.
We acquire home reversion assets from three main sources our own Bridgewater brand, through our distribution agreement with Norwich Union and through the direct acquisition of existing portfolios or home reversion plans from third parties.
We expect the home reversions market to grow considerably in the next few years as elderly people seek to release cash from their homes to 196 354 241 421 supplement their pensions or to fund improvements in their lifestyles.
06 05 We are also seeking opportunities to broaden the types of retirement INVESTMENT VALUE m products we can offer.
VACANT POSSESSION VALUE m INVESTMENT VALUE AND VACANT POSSESSION VALUE 9 Bridgewater Equity Release offers home owners aged 65 and over all the advantages of home reversions, with added exibility.
They choose how much equity in their home they want to release from a minimum of 25% and they can release further amounts at any time.
3,000 full or part-equity residential properties under home reversion plans A typical Grainger home reversion property is a 3 bedroom The innovation award, Bridgewater won Best bungalow with a vacant possession value of some 200,000. won by Bridgewater Provider Home Reversions in October 2006. in November 2006.
10 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 graingerconnects Property and asset management We are proud of our skills as property and asset managers producing the required returns for our shareholders whilst ensuring that the needs of our customers are met.
We also apply this added value owners approach to the benefit of our increasing number of co-investment arrangements.
One of Graingers key strengths is our ability to manage property on a large-scale.
Operating from seven UK ofces and one in Germany, our property management teams look after almost 18,000 homes and are trained to understand all types of property and tenure.
Residential property management is a demanding role requiring complex daily decisions.
We full our obligations as landlords and provide excellent service to our customers whilst protecting the value of our assets and enhancing the performance of our portfolio.
Our property management professionals are skilled at balancing these demands.
Further, our property management and sales and acquisitions teams work together to ensure that the correct strategy and targets for the portfolio are set at the outset and that the right blend of refurbishments, sales and acquisitions achieve the required performance.
We believe that our combination of large-scale residential ownership and nationwide management capabilities provides us with a unique offer to third party partners.
We currently provide such services to the Schroders ResPUT residential investment and to two partnerships set up between Grainger and the Genesis Housing Group.
We also service G:res 1, our own residential fund which was launched in November 2006.
This fund will act as a blueprint for our ambitions to grow our business as a co-investing fund manager: 13,226 13,567 15,221 a model which could be applied to all of our business sectors.
04 05 06 NUMBER OF UK PROPERTIES MANAGED 11 BERKELEY PARK we successfully completed a project to create an additional 17 studio apartments and a new reception area at this serviced apartment development near Heathrow.
WELLESLEY COURT, Twickenham, is a 1930s block of 24 apartments.
We created five additional apartments in the roof space.
CAVENDISH STREET is an off-market acquisition made on behalf of Schroders ResPUT.
DIBDIN HOUSE, MAIDA VALE was included within the first portfolio of three estates acquired from the Church managing some Commissioners in a joint venture with Genesis Housing Group.
18,000 The three estates will undergo a comprehensive refurbishment properties programme, increasing the value of our investment and also improving the environment for our tenants.
12 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 graingerdevelops Development Graingers evolving development business is increasingly focused on large and complex mixed use projects.
The recently strengthened management team is based in London, Newcastle and Oxford, thus ensuring good geographic coverage.
Working as either principal or with joint venture partners, Grainger has a diverse portfolio of existing development opportunities.
Grainger is keen to maintain its exposure to all sectors of the residential market.
One way in which we do this is through our development division.
Our interests range from strategic land holdings to large-scale mixed use developments, often in co-operation with a funding or development partner.
Our development division produces added value through gaining planning permission with a change of use or density, or through physical development.
One example of this is the acquisition of green or browneld land sites and, over time, obtaining planning permission for residential or mixed use developments.
We are increasingly involved in large mixed use developments where our residential expertise can be used to good effect with the skills of other development partners for example, during the year we announced a collaborative agreement with Development Securities plc.
Since the year end we have entered into our first transaction under this agreement for the development of a 10 acre site in Birmingham.
13 MACAULAY ROAD Detailed NEWLANDS, WATERLOOVILLE, planning consent was obtained will provide 1,550 residential units and in 2006 for 94 residential units one million sq.
HORNSEY ROAD will include 145 private residential units, 62 affordable units and a 40,000 sq.
Demolition will be nished in early 2007 and completion is due during summer 2008. end value of our development portfolio 675m 14 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 graingerexpands Europe represents an opportunity for Grainger to expand and use our skills and experience in new and less developed residential markets.
As owner occupation increases, Grainger is well positioned to take advantage of this trend and build a profitable part of the business.
Grainger is seeking to replicate some of the main characteristics of our UK activities in mainland Europe long term exposure to the tenanted residential market and residential development opportunities.
Our main focus for residential investment is currently Germany where we have recently built up a portfolio of some 3,000 residential units.
We see the German market as providing opportunities for an experienced professional landlord such as Grainger.
The low price per unit relative to other European markets and the low level of home ownership 42% compared to an average of 59% in the rest of the European Union augur well for future capital growth.
The attractive nancing environment also means that net rents can exceed nancing costs, unlike the UK market where low residential net yields require an element of house price ination to produce an acceptable total level of return.
In the future our European tenanted residential assets could form the basis for us to act as a co-investing fund manager on a much larger scale the recent opening of our management ofce in Mannheim is the first step in this journey.
On the development side we have two relatively small but exciting ventures with experienced local partners in Estonia Tallinn and the Czech 303 units Republic Prague.
We continue to look for other markets where we can 1,501 units utilise our skills to achieve appropriate returns.
935 units GERMANY Our investments in Germany are in 3 main regions Metro-Ruhr, Baden-Wurttemberg Bavaria and Berlin 15 2,739 residential units exchanged in three regions of Germany GERMANY is in a different stage in the residential cycle to the UK and has had in aggregate, at house prices for a decade.
With economic growth returning, we think now is a good time to invest.
A Grainger Property A Grainger Property A Grainger Property in Mannheim.
