6818 Accounts 2006. qxd 16 3 07 17:33 Page 47 Corporate governance Statement of compliance with code of best practice As well as being the Chairman of the Company, Mr Edens, holds The Financial Services Authority requires all UK incorporated numerous Directorships in a professional capacity.
The Board is listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles satisfied that these appointments do not adversely affect his and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The commitment as the Companys Chairman.
Company, as a Guernsey incorporated company, is not currently Non-Executive Directors required to comply with the Combined Code.
The Directors The Non-Executive Directors bring independent views to the believe, however, that it is important for the Company, as a public Board and have diverse experience in chartered surveying, company, to maintain a high standard of corporate governance, accountancy, law and finance to add to the Boards effectiveness, and as such, the provisions set out in the Combined Code which particularly in the areas of corporate strategy, governance and they consider applicable have been adopted during the year risk.
Non-Executive Directors take an active part in debate, not and are summarised below.
Throughout 2006, except as being afraid to challenge proposals, ensuring the robustness of otherwise explained below, the Company complied with the Board decisions.
recommendations of the Combined Code in relation to the management of the Company.
Remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board.
They do not participate in the Companys bonus Role of the Board or pension schemes but as part of the terms of their initial The Board sets strategy and monitors the Groups operational appointment to the Board they have been awarded shares in and financial performance.
A schedule of matters reserved for the the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed Board was approved on admission of the Company to the Ofcial for an initial period of three years subject to renewal for List, and is reviewed on an annual basis.
It includes those matters further periods.
that are most significant to the Group, based on the nature and size of the matter, both in terms of financial impact and risk.
Board appraisal The Board and its Committees undertake a formal annual As part of its collective responsibility for the management of the evaluation of their own performance and that of individual Group, the Board must ensure that adequate resources are in Directors.
The first such review took place in 2006 the first full place to achieve its strategic aims and that its obligations to its year of operation since Admission.
The performance evaluation shareholders and other stakeholders are met.
consisted of each Director completing a wide-ranging appraisal The Board is responsible to shareholders for the management and questionnaire based on the process and questions outlined in control of the Groups activities and good corporate governance.
the Higgs Reports recommendations for good practice.
The Board met 16 times during the period and intends to meet at The Non-Executive Directors also discuss the performance least seven times a year.
The Board objectively sets and monitors of the Chairman annually, or more frequently as necessary.
Group strategy, reviews performance, ensures adequate funding, The appraisal process revealed a high level of satisfaction with examines major potential acquisitions and disposals, formulates the operation and functioning of the Board and Committees.
policy on key issues and reports to shareholders.
Board Committees To enable the Board to discharge its duties fully, all Directors The Board has established Nomination, Remuneration, receive appropriate and timely information, including brieng Investment and Audit Committees which deal with specic papers distributed in advance of Board meetings.
Management aspects of the Groups affairs, each of which has written terms regularly makes presentations on business and operational issues of reference which are reviewed annually and which deal clearly to the Board and its Committees.
All Directors have access to the with their authorities and duties.
Copies of these are available advice and services of the Company Secretary and his team, who on request from the Company Secretary.
are responsible to the Chairman on matters of corporate The Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee governance.
The Board believes that the interests Board balance and independence of the Company are better served with Mr Edens as a member The Board is satisfied that no individual or group of Directors of these respective Committees, notwithstanding the requirement has unfettered powers of discretion and that an appropriate of the Combined Code that all members should be independent.
balance exists between the Executive and Non-Executive The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Parkinson.
Nomination Committee During the year, the Board comprised of the Chairman, one The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board and Executive Director and four Non-Executive Directors.
The roles chaired by Mr Edens.
Its other members are Mr Carey and of Chairman and Chief Executive officer are split.
Their experience is detailed on page 41.
Other is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board, and the Chief Board members, along with other individuals, attend if invited, Executive officer for the day-to-day management of the Company.
for all or part of any meeting, as and when appropriate.
The Committee met once during the year with full attendance.
The Board considers that all four Non-Executive Directors are independent notwithstanding their entitlements to free ordinary The Committee is responsible for: shares under their letters of appointment.
Mr Carey is the senior Considering the size, structure and composition of the Board independent Non-Executive Director.
Mr Edens, the Chairman may not be regarded as independent since he is the chief Considering the retirement of Directors and appointment executive officer and chairman of the Board of Directors of of additional and replacement Directors Fortress Investment Group LLC, afliates of which manage Making appropriate recommendations to the Board the major shareholders of the Company.
However the Board considers that the experience and independent judgment of its other Non-Executive Directors provides an appropriate and effective balance between the Executive and Non-Executive and independent and non-independent members.
Throughout the period and to the date of this report, more than half of the Board, including the Chairman, comprised independent NonExecutive Directors.
Corporate governance Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2006 47
