6818 Accounts 2006. qxd 16 3 07 17:33 Page 58 Notes to the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 1 General information Mapeley Limited was registered in Guernsey on 26 April 2005 under the provisions of The Companies Guernsey Law, 1994.
The Companys registered ofce is located at Regency Court, Glategny Esplanade, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1WW.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the financial review.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries and were authorised by the Board for issue on 7 March 2007.
Amounts stated in the comparative consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of changes in equity have been adjusted to reect the adoption of merger accounting as set out below.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted for use in the European Union IFRS and The Companies Guernsey Law 1994 on the historical cost basis, except for investment property, non-investment property held as part of property, plant and equipment, derivative financial instruments and available for sale financial assets that have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to one decimal place to the nearest million m except where otherwise indicated.
The functional currency of the parent is pounds sterling.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Mapeley Limited and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2006.
During the prior year the Group underwent a restructuring involving a share for share exchange which introduced a new holding company, Mapeley Limited, in readiness for listing on the London Stock Exchange on 21 June 2005.
At the time of the reorganisation Mapeley Limited and Mapeley UK Co. Limited MUKCO, the previous holding company, were under common control.
MUKCO prepared special purpose consolidated IFRS financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 in readiness for listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The relative rights of the former shareholders of MUKCO were not altered and this restructuring has been accounted using the merger method of accounting, in line with guidance from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP a similar, principles based GAAP to IFRS.
UK FRS 6 Acquisition and Mergers states that the merger method of accounting on Group restructuring is allowable provided the relative rights of the shareholders were not altered.
This basis of consolidation has been adopted as best practice by the Group as no guidance currently exists on Group restructuring under IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Although Mapeley Limited was only formed on 26 April 2005 and acquired MUKCO on 2 June 2005, the accounting information, in line with the merger method of accounting, has been prepared as if the Company had always been in existence in its current form.
The prior year comparatives are accordingly presented to reect the Groups reorganisation and its accounting in accordance with the merger method of accounting.
Except as noted above in connection with the formation of the Mapeley Limited Group, subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred from the Group.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group transactions are eliminated as part of the consolidation process.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of Mapeley Limited have been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
This is consistent with IFRS as adopted for use in the EU as it applies to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006.
In preparing the annual financial statements, the accounting principles applied reect the amendments to IFRS and the adoption of those new IFRS which have become effective since 1 January 2006.
IFRS issued but not yet effective The Group has not adopted the following standards in the preparation of financial statements as they were either not effective at 31 December 2006 or not applicable to the Groups business: Standard Effective date IAS 1 para 124A-124C Presentation of Financial Statements Periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007 IFRS 8 Operating Segments Periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009 IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Periods commencing on or after 1 May 2006 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2006 IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment Periods commencing on or after 1 November 2006 IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Shares Periods commencing on or after 1 March 2007 IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements Periods commencing on or after 1 January 2008 The Group is still evaluating the impact that these standards will have on the Groups financial statements, if any, but expect that there will be no material impact when implemented.
58 Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2006 Notes to the audited consolidated financial statements
