Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 47 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation Minerva plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The Groups financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group and equity account the Groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The parent company has elected to prepare its company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in the financial statements and in preparing an opening IFRS balance sheet at the transition date of 1 July 2004.
However, advantage has been taken of certain exemptions afforded by IFRS 1, First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards as follows: The Group has applied IFRS 2, Share-based payment, retrospectively only to awards made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested at 1 January 2005.
The Group has postponed adoption of IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement until its accounting period commencing 1 July 2005.
On adoption of IAS 39 both interest rate swaps and swaptions were stated at fair value.
The resulting 15,932,000 increase in liability, together with a corresponding deferred tax credit of 4,780,000 reduced total net equity at 1 July 2005 by 11,152,000.
Transition to IFRS The Group has prepared its financial statements in accordance with IFRS for the first time and consequently has applied IFRS 1 as noted above.
An explanation and note regarding the transition to IFRS is set out in note 32 as well as in the IFRS Transition Report which is on the Companys website www.
Measurement convention The Group has prepared its financial statements in accordance with the historical cost convention, as modified by the inclusion of investment properties and financial instruments at fair value in accordance with IFRS.
The measurement of fair value constitutes an area of judgement exercised by the Board in respect of the financial results of the Group.
In relation to the Groups investment properties, the Board has relied upon external valuations carried out by professionally qualified valuers in accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation Standards of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
In respect of financial instruments, the Board has relied upon the valuation carried out by JC Rathbone Associates Limited, financial risk consultants.
Other areas of judgement, risk and uncertainty which are relevant to an understanding of the financial results and position of the Group are referred to in the Business Review.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the Group includes the financial results of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
A joint venture is an undertaking in which the Group has a long-term interest and over which it exercises joint control, whereas an associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence but not control over financial and operating policies.
In accordance with IAS 31, the Group equity accounts for its share of net profit after tax of joint ventures and associates, together with its share of fair value adjustments, through the income statement and recognises its share of the net assets of the joint ventures and associates in the consolidated balance sheet.
To the extent that fair value adjustments are in respect of cash flow hedges, these movements are recognised directly in equity.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are held in the Company balance sheet at cost and reviewed for impairment.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement.
Revenue Revenue comprises rental income, service charge income and other amounts receivable from tenants.
Lease incentives to tenants are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
