Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 47 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation Minerva plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The Groups financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group and equity account the Groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The parent company has elected to prepare its company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in the financial statements and in preparing an opening IFRS balance sheet at the transition date of 1 July 2004.
However, advantage has been taken of certain exemptions afforded by IFRS 1, First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards as follows: The Group has applied IFRS 2, Share-based payment, retrospectively only to awards made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested at 1 January 2005.
The Group has postponed adoption of IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement until its accounting period commencing 1 July 2005.
On adoption of IAS 39 both interest rate swaps and swaptions were stated at fair value.
The resulting 15,932,000 increase in liability, together with a corresponding deferred tax credit of 4,780,000 reduced total net equity at 1 July 2005 by 11,152,000.
Transition to IFRS The Group has prepared its financial statements in accordance with IFRS for the first time and consequently has applied IFRS 1 as noted above.
An explanation and note regarding the transition to IFRS is set out in note 32 as well as in the IFRS Transition Report which is on the Companys website www.
Measurement convention The Group has prepared its financial statements in accordance with the historical cost convention, as modified by the inclusion of investment properties and financial instruments at fair value in accordance with IFRS.
The measurement of fair value constitutes an area of judgement exercised by the Board in respect of the financial results of the Group.
In relation to the Groups investment properties, the Board has relied upon external valuations carried out by professionally qualified valuers in accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation Standards of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
In respect of financial instruments, the Board has relied upon the valuation carried out by JC Rathbone Associates Limited, financial risk consultants.
Other areas of judgement, risk and uncertainty which are relevant to an understanding of the financial results and position of the Group are referred to in the Business Review.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the Group includes the financial results of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
A joint venture is an undertaking in which the Group has a long-term interest and over which it exercises joint control, whereas an associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence but not control over financial and operating policies.
In accordance with IAS 31, the Group equity accounts for its share of net profit after tax of joint ventures and associates, together with its share of fair value adjustments, through the income statement and recognises its share of the net assets of the joint ventures and associates in the consolidated balance sheet.
To the extent that fair value adjustments are in respect of cash flow hedges, these movements are recognised directly in equity.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are held in the Company balance sheet at cost and reviewed for impairment.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement.
Revenue Revenue comprises rental income, service charge income and other amounts receivable from tenants.
Lease incentives to tenants are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 48 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Property expenses Refurbishment expenditure in respect of major works is capitalised.
Renovation and refurbishment expenditure of a revenue nature is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Costs directly attributable to the arrangement of a lease, which include letting and professional fees, are capitalised and amortised over the lease term.
Investment properties Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including related transactions costs, and subsequently at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of an investment property at the balance sheet date and its carrying amount prior to re-measurement, are recorded in the income statement.
Additions to properties in the course of development or refurbishment include the cost of finance and directly attributable internal and external costs incurred during the period of development until practical completion.
When the Group redevelops an existing investment property for continued use as an investment property, the property remains an investment property measured at fair value and is not reclassified.
Trading properties Trading properties are included in the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Property transactions Purchases and sales are recognised on exchange of contracts provided that, if the exchange is conditional, all material conditions have been satisfied.
Property, plant and equipment This category comprises owner occupied property, motor vehicles and fixtures and fittings.
These assets are stated at historical cost, or in the case of owner occupied property its carrying value at the date of transfer, less accumulated depreciation.
Owner occupied property is depreciated over 50 years and motor vehicles and fixtures and fittings are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of between three and five years.
Leases the Group as a lessee Leases are classified according to the substance of the transaction.
A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee is classified as a finance lease.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement over the term of the lease on a straight-line basis.
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in current and non-current borrowings.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are stated in the balance sheet at cost.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments.
Borrowings Bank loans are included in the financial statements, initially at cost, being the fair value of consideration received less attributable transaction costs, which are amortised over the life of the loan.
Interest payable is accounted for on an accruals basis.
Derivative financial instruments Interest rate derivatives are recognised initially at cost and subsequent to initial recognition are stated at fair value.
Amounts payable and receivable on interest rate derivatives are recognised in the period to which they relate.
Wherever possible the Group applies hedge accounting to its interest rate swaps where they meet the relevant criteria.
Changes in fair value of such derivatives that are designated and effective as hedges are recognised directly in reserves, to be transferred to the income statement in the period during which the hedge item is recognised in the income statement.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement as a finance cost in all other cases movements in the fair value of interest rate derivatives are taken to the income statement.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1 not to restate corresponding amounts in accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The corresponding amounts for the year ended 30 June 2005 are presented and disclosed in accordance with the requirement of the Companies Act 1985 and FRS 4, Capital Instruments.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 49 1.
Accounting policies continued Income tax The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-taxable or disallowed having taking into consideration capital allowances, indexation and available tax losses.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax is calculated on the basis that properties will be realised predominantly through sale and therefore capital gains are reduced by indexation.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Income tax is determined using rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and which are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at cost less provision for impairment where it is established there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due in accordance with the original terms of the receivable.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
The provision is recorded in the income statement.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at cost.
Share-based payment The Group provides share-based payment in the form of share options and share awards under the Executive Incentive Plan.
These plans are discussed in greater detail in the Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 33.
All share-based payment arrangements granted after 7 November 2002 that have not vested prior to 1 January 2005 are recognised in the financial statements.
The Group uses, where appropriate, either a modified binomial or a stochastic valuation model and the resulting fair values, calculated at each award date, are expensed through the income statement over the vesting period of the share-based payments.
Retirement benefits Employer contributions to schemes of employees are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Dividends Final dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Discontinued operation The discontinued operation in the prior year relates to the Groups previous investment in a joint venture which went into administration in January 2005.
The prior year IFRS adjustments made in respect of the discontinued joint venture are based on Director estimates, which they consider to be reasonable, using the limited information available to them.
