statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors are responsible for keeping the Annual Report and the Group and Parent proper accounting records that disclose Company financial statements, in accordance with reasonable accuracy at any time, the with applicable law and regulations.
financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial Company law requires the Directors to statements comply with the Companies prepare Group and Parent Company financial Act 1985.
They have general responsibility statements for each financial year.
Under for taking such steps as are reasonably that law, the Directors are required to open to them to safeguard the assets of the prepare the Group financial statements in Group and to prevent and detect fraud accordance with IFRSs as adopted by and other irregularities.
the EU and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in Under applicable law and regulations, the accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration The Group financial statements are required Report and Corporate Governance Statement by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU that comply with that law and regulations.
to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies The Directors are responsible for the Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial maintenance and integrity of the corporate statements that references in the relevant and financial information included on the part of that Act to financial statements giving Companys website.
Legislation in the UK a true and fair view are references to their governing the preparation and dissemination achieving a fair presentation.
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Parent Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements.
quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006 55
