Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Transition to IFRS As stated in the accounting policies on pages 53 to 56, these are the Groups first consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with adopted IFRSs.
The accounting policies have been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 July 2006, the comparative information presented in these financial statements for the year ended 31 July 2005 and in the preparation of an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 August 2004 the Groups date of transition.
In preparing its opening IFRS balance sheet, the Group has adjusted amounts reported previously in financial statements prepared in accordance with its old basis of accounting UK GAAP.
An explanation of how the transition from UK GAAP to adopted IFRSs has affected the Groups financial position, financial performance and cashflows is set out in the following table and the notes that accompany the table.
Certain key areas of the Groups activities will remain unaffected by the adoption of IFRSs, most notably: Dividend policy Cashflow Effective tax rate Banking arrangements Group strategy and processes for decision making Based on the accounting policies set out on pages 53 to 56, the effect of the transition on key reported results was as follows: Year ended 31 July 2005 UK GAAP IFRS m m Operating profit 229.7 230.1 Profit for the period 152.8 149.2 Basic EPS 134.6p 133.1p 84 Net assets 796.1 779.8 Pages 87 to 89 provide detailed reconciliations of the movements for the Group income statement and Group balance sheet.
The most significant changes in the Groups financial statements, resulting from the transition to IFRS, are in the following areas: The reclassification of the preference shares in the balance sheet, out of equity and into non-current liabilities.
The recognition of the pension scheme deficit in the balance sheet, and the corresponding increases in administrative expenses and finance expenses in the income statement and the actuarial loss in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense SORIE.
The exclusion of proposed equity dividends from the income statement and from liabilities in the balance sheet.
Applying Adopted IFRSs, an interim equity dividend is not recorded until it is paid, also a final equity dividend is not recorded until it is approved by shareholders.
Under Adopted IFRSs, the dividend is presented as a movement in equity.
Land creditors are now discounted to fair value with a corresponding reduction in inventories.
The discount represents notional interest and this is reflected as increased financing costs over the deferral period.
The reduction in inventory results in reduced cost of sales and a higher operating margin over the life of a development.
There is now a change to the basis of measurement of the charge to the income statement in relation to share based payments.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Transition to IFRS continued Significant changes in accounting policies and impact on the financial information The following narrative covers the Group income statement for the year ended 31 July 2005 and the Group balance sheets at 1 August 2004 and 31 July 2005.
IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments Preference dividends expensed are now disclosed within finance expenses rather than as dividends.
This resulted in finance expenses increasing by 1.9m for the year ended 31 July 2005.
The preference shares of 20.0m are removed from equity and shown within non-current liabilities.
The 0.6m preference dividend, which is accrued using the effective interest rate method at each balance sheet date, is recognised within trade and other payables.
IAS 2 Inventories Land purchased on deferred terms is measured at fair value.
The associated land creditor is reduced by an amount of notional interest.
The liability is then increased to the settlement value over the period of deferral.
The net effect is a reduction in the creditor of 2.9m at 31 July 2005.
The corresponding inventory is also reduced by the notional interest.
The lower land value results in a reduced charge to cost of sales as the profit is taken on a development.
The net effect on inventories is a reduction of 8.0m at 31 July 2005.
Cost of sales is reduced by 1.5m in the year ended 31 July 2005.
The increased interest is charged to finance expenses over the deferral period and amounts to 2.7m for the year ended 31 July 2005.
The differing rate at which the finance expenses and cost of sales are recognised in the income statement produces a deferred tax credit.
IAS 10 Events After the Balance Sheet Date Under IAS 10 only dividends which are approved at the balance sheet date are shown as a liability.
Dividends are recognised as an appropriation of equity when they are paid, for an interim dividend, or approved by shareholders at the AGM, for a final dividend.
Amounts previously accrued in the balance sheet are now removed, resulting in reduced liabilities of 20.7m at 31 July 2005.
The net increase in equity is shown within the reconciliation of movements in capital and reserves.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits Under UK GAAP the Group accounted for the defined benefit pension scheme in accordance with SSAP 24.
A pension prepayment was held in the balance sheet representing the difference between pension contributions and the regular pension cost established actuarially.
The Group made a special contribution of 9.8m to the scheme to address the deficit identified in the actuarial valuation in 2002 and this accounted for a large part of the total 85 pension prepayment.
Under UK GAAP this special contribution was treated as a prepayment, however under IFRS this is netted against the pension deficit reducing trade and other receivables by 9.1m at 31 July 2005.
IAS 19, as amended in 2004, provides an option for companies to account for actuarial gains and losses in full in the SORIE.
The Group has adopted this approach from the date of transition.
The Groups full year financial statements under UK GAAP disclosed defined benefit pension scheme assets and liabilities under FRS 17 within a note to the financial statements.
The valuation approach used under FRS 17 is similar to that used for IAS 19 with the exception that IAS 19 requires the market valuation of scheme assets to be carried out on a bid basis rather than a mid-market basis.
The deficit under IAS 19 is disclosed within retirement benefit obligations on the balance sheet.
Under IAS 19, the current service cost which is the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation as a result of employee service in the current period is recognised within the income statement.
Past service costs which arise when the employer makes a commitment to provide an increased level of benefit are also recognised within the income statement.
The SSAP 24 pension charge has been reversed.
The net effect is an increased charge to the income statement of 0.6m for the year ended 31 July 2005.
The interest charge which is the increase during the period in the present value of defined benefit obligations is recognised in finance expenses.
For the year ended 31 July 2005 the charge was 0.3m.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Transition to IFRS continued IFRS 2 - Share-based Payments In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised a charge to the income statement in relation to equity settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 which had not fully vested at 1 January 2005.
The corresponding entry is recognised directly in equity.
Fair values have been calculated for the Groups various option schemes using an appropriate option pricing model.
For the savings related share option schemes, a method using the Black Scholes formula has been used due to the relatively short exercise window.
For the employee share option schemes, a lattice model has been used.
This enables early exercise behaviour to be modelled in a more sophisticated manner than the Black Scholes formula.
For the performance share plan, a Monte Carlo simulation technique has been applied since the performance test measures the Groups total shareholder return relative to the appropriate peer group.
The charges calculated for the schemes are spread over the period in which the options vest.
Adjustments are made to allow for actual and expected levels of vesting.
Charges made previously under UK GAAP have been reversed to the extent that they related to options now incorporated into the IFRS 2 calculation and an IFRS 2 charge has been recognised.
The net effect is a 0.3m charge to administrative expenses for the year ended 31 July 2005.
The corresponding liability under UK GAAP which is part of retained earnings for options now dealt with under IFRS 2 has also been reversed.
An estimate of the tax base at each balance sheet date is established by multiplying the options intrinsic value, which is the difference between the exercise price and the market value at the balance sheet date, by the vesting period that has lapsed.
The temporary difference resulted in a deferred tax asset of 2.4m at 31 July 2005.
The deferred tax credit is recognised in equity to the extent that the relevant tax base exceeds the cumulative share-based payment charge recognised in the income statement.
Conclusion Adopting IFRS has not affected the Groups operations in terms of strategy.
Also, cash flows and banking arrangements are unaffected, and there is no material impact on the effective tax rate.
