Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Shareholder Information Annual General Meeting special business This section is important.
If you are in any doubt as to what action to take you should consult an appropriate independent adviser.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in Bellway p. l. c. you should pass this document and all accompanying documents to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Three resolutions will be proposed as special business at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The effect of these resolutions is as follows: Resolution 9 Approval for the establishment of the Bellway p. l. c. 2007 Employee Share Option Scheme the Scheme This resolution seeks shareholders approval for the introduction of a new unapproved Company share option scheme to replace the existing scheme, the Bellway p. l. c. 1996 Employee Share Option Scheme, under which further options ceased to be capable of being granted after 5 June 2006.
Full details of the Scheme are summarised below.
Resolution 10 - Disapplication of pre-emption rights This resolution is the customary annual request that shareholders empower the directors to allot equity securities for cash without first offering them pro-rata to existing shareholders as would otherwise be required by section 89 of the Companies Act 1985.
This power allows the directors to allot equity securities for cash only a up to an aggregate nominal value of 712,426, being approximately equal to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: or b in a rights issue or other offer of securities pro rata to shareholders up to the maximum unused amount of the general authority to allot conferred on the directors on 10 January 2003.
Resolution 11 - Companys purchase of its own shares The Companys authority to purchase its own ordinary and preference shares, given at the last Annual General Meeting, expires on the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors propose that it should be renewed for a further year to expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting.
The directors will review opportunities to use this authority in the light of stock market conditions and trading opportunities during the year.
The directors will only make purchases which will reduce the number of shares in issue after paying due attention to the effect on the financing of the Group, its assets and earnings per ordinary share for the remaining shareholders.
Any shares purchased under this authority may be cancelled in which case the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly or may be held in treasury.
Recommendation Your directors consider each of the resolutions set out in the notice of Annual General Meeting to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
Details of the Bellway p. l. c. 2007 Employee Share Option Scheme 1.
General The Bellway p. l. c. 2007 Employee Share Option Scheme the Scheme provides for the grant of options over ordinary shares in the Company on a discretionary basis to eligible employees, and is intended to replace the Bellway p. l. c. 1996 Employee Share Option Scheme the Existing Scheme.
No further options can be granted under the Existing Scheme.
Eligibility All employees and executive directors of the Company and its subsidiaries, are, in principle, eligible to participate in the Scheme at the discretion of the Board.
It is, however, the current intention that no executive directors of the Company should be granted options under the shceme.
Grant of options Options will only be granted in the 42 day period commencing on the following: the announcement of the Companys annual or half-yearly results: or the date an employee first becomes eligible to participate in the Scheme: or adoption of the Scheme in general meeting: or in any other period of 42 days, as determined in its absolute discretion by the Board.
Options may not be granted more than 10 years after the date of adoption by the Board.
Options may not be transferred.
Performance targets When options are granted, the Board shall be entitled to specify objective conditions, by way of performance targets, that are required to be satisfied before options may be exercised.
Exercise, lapse and exchange of options Options will, provided that any performance targets specified at the time of their grant have been satisfied, normally be exercisable during the period commencing three years after, and ending 10 years after, the date of grant.
Options will normally lapse on cessation of employment.
However, exercise will also be permitted for a limited period irrespective of the period for which the options have been held following cessation of employment for good leaver reasons.
Exercise will also be permitted on a takeover or amalgamation of the Company.
There are also provisions for the exchange of options in specified circumstances.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Shareholder Information continued 6.
Exercise price The price at which participants in the Scheme may acquire ordinary shares will be either: not less than the middle market price of an ordinary share quoted on the London Stock Exchange at close of dealings on the day immediately preceding the date of grant: or not less than the average of the middle market price of an ordinary share quoted on the London Stock Exchange on the five dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant.
Scheme limits Options may not be granted if this would cause the total number of ordinary shares which can be issued by the Company to satisfy the exercise of those options to exceed 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company on the date of intended grant.
This limit takes account of ordinary shares issued pursuant to rights granted within the previous 10 years under any discretionary employee share scheme established by the Company, and is increased to 10% to take account of ordinary shares issued pursuant to rights granted within the previous 10 years under all other employee share schemes established by the Company.
Adjustments The number of shares comprised in an option and or its exercise price may be adjusted if any capitalisation issue, offer by way of rights or any sub-division, reduction, consolidation or other variation of the Companys share capital occurs.
Amendments The rules of the Scheme may be amended by the Board.
If the amendments are to the advantage of participants generally and, in particular, with regard to the rules relating to the eligibility of participants under the Scheme, limitations on the number of ordinary shares over which options may be granted, or adjustments in the event of a variation in the share capital of the Company, shareholder approval will be required unless the amendment is minor, or is being made to comply with the provisions of any existing or proposed legislation or to obtain favourable taxation treatment of any participating company or any participant.
General The Company will apply for admission to dealing on the London Stock Exchange for ordinary shares which are to be allotted and issued to a participant pursuant to the exercise of options.
Those ordinary shares will rank pari passu with all other issued ordinary shares, except for any rights determined by reference to a date preceding the date on which the option is exercised.
Benefits provided under the Scheme are not pensionable.
Financial calendar Announcement of results and ordinary dividends Half year April 94 Full year October Ordinary share dividend payments Interim July Final January Preference share dividend payments at the rate of 9.5% per annum paid half yearly April and October Annual report posted to shareholders December Final dividend ex-dividend date 13 December 2006 Final dividend record date 15 December 2006 Annual General Meeting 12 January 2007 Final dividend payment date 15 January 2007 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Shareholder Information continued Shareholders by size of holding at 31 July 2006 Holdings Shares Number % Holding % 0 - 2,000 1,993 64.8 1,441,607 1.3 2,001 10,000 632 20.5 2,752,734 2.4 10,001 - 50,000 228 7.4 5,493,894 4.8 50,001 and over 223 7.3 104,300,075 91.5 Total 3,076 100.0 113,988,310 100.0 Share dealing service The Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, provide a share dealing service to existing shareholders to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Online and telephone dealing facilities provide an easy to access and simple to use service.
For further information on this service, or to buy or sell shares, please contact: www.
com - online dealing 0870 458 4577 - telephone dealing Please note that the directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell their shares.
Shareholders in any doubt as to what action to take are recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial adviser authorised by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Discount to shareholders The following discount arrangement is currently available to shareholders.
Should you intend to purchase a new Bellway home, you will be entitled to a discount of 625 per 25,000, or pro rata on part thereof, of the purchase price provided that: a you have been the registered holder of at least 2,000 ordinary shares for a minimum period of 12 months prior to the reservation of your new home: and 95 b you inform our sales representative on site when reserving your property that you are claiming shareholder discount.
The above discount arrangement is only available to shareholders on the Companys Register of Members.
Employees of investing companies or members of investing institutions would not therefore be eligible.
For further details please contact the Group Company Secretary, Bellway p. l. c. Seaton Burn House, Dudley Lane, Seaton Burn, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE13 6BE, telephone 0191 217 0717 or e-mail kevin.
co. uk Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 A copy of the Companys Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 is available to shareholders on the Companys website www.
co. uk or on written application to the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
