Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Copthorne Hotel, The Close, Quayside, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 3RT on Friday 12 January 2007 at 12.00 noon for the following purposes: 1.
To receive and adopt the Accounts for the financial year ended 31 July 2006 and the Directors Report and the Auditors Report on those Accounts and on the auditable part of the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 July 2006.
To re-elect Mr J K Watson as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr L P Finn as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr P M Johnson as a director of the Company.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which Accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the directors to agree the remuneration of the auditors of the Company.
To approve the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration shown on pages 38 to 46 of the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 July 2006.
As special business to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as special resolutions: 9.
That the Bellway p. l. c. 2007 Employee Share Option Scheme, the draft rules of which are produced to this meeting and initialled by the Chairman thereof for the purposes of identification and a summary of which is set out under Shareholder Information on pages 93 to 95, be and is hereby approved and adopted subject to such modifications, if any, as the directors consider necessary or appropriate to comply with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange and that the directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to do all acts and things necessary or expedient to carry the said Scheme into effect.
That, insofar as it relates to securities that are not treasury shares within the meaning of Section 162A 3 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, pursuant to the general authority conferred on them by an Ordinary Resolution passed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 10 January 2003, the directors be empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority so conferred or where the equity securities are held by the Company as qualifying shares to which Sections 162A to 162G of the Act apply in each case as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: i in connection with an offer of equity securities, open for acceptance for a fixed period, by the directors to ordinary shareholders of the Company 96 on the Register on a fixed record date in proportion as nearly as may be to their then holdings of such equity securities but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any overseas territory or fractional entitlements or any other matter whatsoever : and or ii otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above or pursuant to the Bellway p. l. c. 1995 Employee Share Option Scheme, the Bellway p. l. c. 1996 Employee Share Option Scheme, the Bellway p. l. c. Savings Related Share Option Scheme, the Bellway p. l. c. 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme, the Bellway p. l. c. 2004 Performance Share Plan, the Bellway p. l. c. 2005 Employee Share Option Scheme and the Bellway p. l. c. 2007 Employee Share Option Scheme, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 712,426 and shall expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, 15 months after the passing of this resolution except that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities pursuant to such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 11.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 166 of the Act to purchase ordinary shares and preference shares in the capital of the Company by way of one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act on the London Stock Exchange upon, and subject to the following conditions: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 11,398,831 ordinary shares of 12.5p each, being approximately 10 per cent of the ordinary shares in issue: ii the maximum number of preference shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 20,000,000 9.5% Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares 2014 of 1 each, being the total amount of preference shares in issue: iii the maximum price at which ordinary shares may be purchased is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations derived from the London Stock Exchange Limited Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the ordinary shares are contracted to be purchased and the minimum price is 12.5p per share, in both cases exclusive of expenses: iv the maximum price at which preference shares may be purchased shall be an amount calculated in accordance with the provisions contained in the Articles of Association of the Company: and v unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, the authority to purchase conferred by this resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, or if earlier, 15 months after the passing of this resolution provided that any contract for the purchase of any shares as aforesaid which was concluded before the expiry of the said authority may be executed wholly or partly after the said authority expires and the relevant shares purchased pursuant thereto.
Notes: i A Member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting convened by the above notice may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
ii A form of proxy is enclosed.
Completion and return of the proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending in person and voting at the meeting.
iii CREST members will be able to cast their vote using CREST electronic proxy voting using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
In order to be valid, the Companys registrars must receive CREST Proxy Instructions not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
iv There will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, during usual business hours Saturdays and public holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting the Register of Interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company.
A copy of this register, together with copies of contracts of service and letters of appointment of the directors of the 97 Company and the rules of the proposed Bellway p. l. c. 2007 Employee Share Option Scheme, will also be available for inspection during the Annual General Meeting and for at least fifteen minutes before it begins.
The Rules of the proposed Bellway p. l. c. 2007 Employee Share Option Scheme will also be available for inspection during the same hours from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting at the offices of the Companys broker HSBC Bank plc, 8 Canada Square, London, E14 5HQ.
v To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purposes of determination by the Company of the number of votes cast, shareholders must be entered on the Companys Register of Members not less than 48 hours prior to the time set for the meeting.
By order of the Board G K Wrightson Group Company Secretary Registered Office Bellway p. l. c. Seaton Burn House Dudley Lane Seaton Burn Newcastle upon Tyne NE13 6BE Registered in England and Wales No.
