67 Accounting policies For the year ended 30th November 2006 Basis of preparation The groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU as they apply to the group for the year ended 30th November 2006 applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The group accounts of prior periods have been restated using IFRS so that proper comparison can be made with the results for the current year.
The groups IFRS accounting policies are set out below.
Reconciliations of the results for the year to 30th November 2005 from UK GAAP to IFRS are set out in note 23.
Basis of consolidation The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of St. Modwen Properties PLC and the entities it controls.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights or by contractual agreement.
A list of the principal entities is given in note f to the companys financial statements on page 103.
All entities are consolidated from the date on which the group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in entities that is not held by the group and is presented separately within equity in the group balance sheet.
Interests in joint ventures The group recognises its interest in joint ventures using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the interest in the joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the groups share of its net assets, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments.
The income statement reflects the groups share of the jointly controlled entities results after tax.
Financial statements of jointly controlled entities are prepared for the same reporting period as the group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of the group.
The group statement of recognised income and expense reflects the groups share of any income and expense recognised by the jointly controlled entities outside the income statement.
Interests in associates The groups interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, as described above.
Other investments Other investments comprising entities over which the group does not have a significant influence are held at fair value.
Properties Investment properties Investment properties, being freehold and leasehold properties held for capital appreciation and or to earn rental income, are carried at fair value following initial recognition at the present value of the consideration payable.
To establish fair value, investment properties are independently valued twice yearly on an open market basis.
Any surplus or deficit arising is recognised in the income statement for the period.
Once classified as an investment property, a property remains in this category until development with a view to sale is authorised, at which point the asset is transferred to stock at its current valuation.
68 Accounting policies continued Where an investment property is being redeveloped for continued use as an investment property, the property remains within investment property and any movement in valuation is recognised in the income statement.
Properties held for sale Investment properties that are anticipated to be sold within twelve months of the balance sheet date continue to be valued as investment properties, but are classified as properties held for sale.
Stocks and work in progress Stocks and work in progress principally comprise properties held for sale, properties under construction and land under option.
Pre-sold properties under construction are accounted for at cost plus attributable profit less payments received on account.
Attributable profit is ascertained based on the estimated outcome of the development and the amount of the work undertaken to date.
All land held under option agreements is intended for use by the group in the normal course of its activities and is recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Transfers from investment property are made at value not cost and are then carried as current assets at the lower of this value and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Properties acquired from third parties exclusively with a view to sale and properties under construction which have not been pre-sold are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value within stocks and work in progress.
Interest Interest incurred is not capitalised, but written off to the income statement on an accruals basis.
Operating property, plant and equipment Operating property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Such cost includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is provided on all operating property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows: Leasehold operating properties over the shorter of the lease term and 25 years Plant, machinery and equipment over 2 to 5 years Freehold properties, which comprise land, are not depreciated.
Leases Non-property assets held under finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease with a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Non-property assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leasehold investment properties are accounted for as finance leases with the present value of guaranteed minimum ground rents included within the carrying value of the property and within long-term liabilities.
On payment of a guaranteed ground rent, virtually all of the cost is charged to the income statement, as interest payable, and the balance reduces the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
69 Lease incentives Lease incentives, including rent-free periods and payments to tenants, are allocated to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when there is evidence that the group will not be able to recover balances in full.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables on deferred payment terms are initially recorded by discounting the nominal amount payable to net present value.
The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period of the deferred arrangement and charged to finance costs.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance income and finance expense.
Income taxes Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements using the rates of tax expected to apply based on legislation enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, with the following exceptions: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Such instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The group has determined that the derivative financial instruments in use do not qualify for hedge accounting and, consequently, any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken to the income statement.
70 Accounting policies continued Pensions The group operates a pension scheme, with both defined benefit and defined contribution sections.
The defined benefit section is closed to new members.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit section is determined using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement immediately if the benefits have vested.
The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long-term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
The difference between the expected return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognised in the income statement as other finance income or expense.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of recognised income and expense in the year in which they occur.
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation, less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they become payable.
Own shares St. Modwen Properties PLC shares held by the group are classified in shareholders equity and are recognised at cost.
Dividends Dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of property Revenue arising from the sale of property is recognised on legal completion of the sale.
Construction contracts Revenue arising from construction contracts is recognised only when the outcome of the contract can be ascertained with reasonable certainty.
The amount of revenue recognised is based on the prudently estimated outcome and the amount of the work undertaken to date.
Rental income Rental income arising from investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Gains on investment property disposals Disposals are recognised on completion.
Profits and losses arising are recognised through the income statement and the profit on disposal is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset.
71 Share-based payments The group accounts for its share option schemes as cash-settled share-based payments as new shares are not issued to satisfy employee share option plans.
The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value using an appropriate option pricing model and amortised through the income statement over the vesting period.
The liability is remeasured at each period end.
Revisions to the fair value of the accrued liability after the end of the vesting period are recorded in the income statement of the period in which they occur.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and short-term deposits with banks.
Use of estimates and judgements To be able to prepare accounts according to generally accepted accounting principles, management must make estimates and assumptions that affect the asset and liability items and revenue and expense amounts recorded in the financial accounts.
These estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that management and the board of directors believe are reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these considerations form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
The areas requiring the use of estimates and critical judgements that may significantly impact the groups earnings and financial position are: revenue and cost recognition on developments: valuation of investment properties: estimation of remediation costs for both properties under construction and investment properties: calculation of deferred tax liabilities: calculation and assessment of recoverability of deferred tax assets: recognition of share-based payments charge: and calculation of pension liability.
New standards and interpretations not applied The group has considered all new IASB and IFRIC standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of this financial information.
The new standards and interpretations expected to have an impact on the group financial statements are: Effective date IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1st January 2007 IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1st January 2007 IAS 39 Amendment Financial guarantee contracts 1st January 2006 Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the group will have to disclose additional information about its financial instruments, their significance and the nature and extent of risks that they give rise to.
More specifically, the group will need to disclose the fair value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater detail.
There will be no effect on reported income or net assets.
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of the amendment to IAS 1 will have a material impact on the groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Under IAS 39 as amended, the group will need to value the financial guarantee contracts that it has issued and recognise them on the balance sheet.
If this amendment had been effective for the year ended 30th November 2006 there would be no effect on reported income or net assets.
