113 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the sixty-sixth Annual General Meeting of St. Modwen Properties PLC will be held at noon on Friday 27th April 2007 at the Ironmongers Hall, Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA.
To receive and adopt the report of the directors and the accounts for the year ended 30th November 2006.
To declare a final ordinary dividend of 6.8p per share.
To re-elect as directors: i. Christopher Roshier ii.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration note a.
To approve the directors remuneration report contained on pages 53 to 60.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: 6.
Ordinary Resolution To approve the Performance Share Plan for executive directors contained in the letter to shareholders accompanying this Annual Report.
Ordinary Resolution To approve the renewal of the existing 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme, as set out in the letter to shareholders accompanying this Annual Report.
Ordinary Resolution That the authority to allot relevant securities and equity securities conferred on the directors by Article 8.2 of the companys Articles of Association be and is hereby granted for the period ending on 27th July 2008 or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the company to be held after the date of the passing of this Resolution whichever is the earlier and for such period the Section 80 amount shall be 2,922,605 note b.
Special Resolution That the power to allot relevant securities and equity securities conferred on the directors by Article 8.2 of the companys Articles of Association be and is hereby granted for the period ending on 27th July 2008 or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the company to be held after the date of the passing of this Resolution whichever is the earlier and for such period the Section 89 amount shall be 603,870 note b.
Special Resolution That, in accordance with Article 10 of its Articles of Association and Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985, the company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of any of its own ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the board of directors may from time to time determine PROVIDED THAT the general authority conferred by this Resolution shall: 114 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued i be limited to 12,077,395 ordinary shares of 10p each: ii not permit the payment per share of more than 105% of the average middle market price quotation on the London Stock Exchange for the ordinary shares on the five previous dealing days or less than 10p in each case exclusive of advance corporation tax if any and expenses payable by the company : and iii expire on 27th July 2008 or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the company to be held after the date of the passing of this Resolution whichever is the earlier, save that if the company should before such expiry enter into a contract of purchase then the purchase may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry note b.
By order of the board Tim Haywood Secretary 12th February 2007 Sir Stanley Clarke House 7 Ridgeway Quinton Business Park Birmingham B32 1AF Notes a Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to remain in office and a resolution to reappoint them as auditors of the company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting see note on audit tender process on page 48. b The existing general authority of the directors to allot shares and the current disapplication of the statutory pre-emption rights expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Article 8.2 of the companys Articles of Association contains a general authority for the directors to allot shares in the company for a period not exceeding five years the prescribed period and up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount the Section 80 amount approved by a Special or Ordinary Resolution of the company.
Article 8.2 also empowers the directors during the prescribed period to allot shares for cash in connection with a rights issue and also to allot shares for cash in any other circumstances up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount approved by a Special Resolution of the company the Section 89 amount.
The board has no intention at present to exercise the authority to allot shares.
Resolution 8, which will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution, provides for the Section 80 amount to be 2,922,605 being an amount equal to the authorised but unissued share capital of the company at the date of this report and representing 24% of the companys issued share capital at that date.
Resolution 9, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution, provides for the Section 89 amount to be 603,870 representing 5% of the companys issued share capital.
The prescribed period for which these powers and authorities are granted will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held next year or on 27th July 2008 if earlier when the directors intend to seek renewal of the authorities.
115 c Renewal of the authority for the company to purchase certain of its own shares Resolution 10.
This resolution renews an existing authority for a further year.
The directors believe it is advantageous to have such authority but would only exercise it if it was believed to be in the best interests of shareholders.
At present, the board has no intention to exercise the authority.
d A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint another person whether a member or not as his her proxy, to attend and, on a poll, vote for him her.
Forms of proxy, one of which is enclosed, must be signed by the appointer and must be lodged at the registrars office at least 48 hours before the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
e Copies of the contracts of service between the company and Mr C. C. A. Glossop, Mr W. A. Oliver, Mr S. J. Burke and Mr T. P. Haywood are available for inspection at the registered office of the company on each business day during normal business hours and will be available on the day of the meeting, at the place of the meeting, from at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting until its conclusion.
A register of directors interests will also be available for inspection from the commencement of the meeting until its conclusion.
f In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the company gives notice that only those shareholders entered on the relevant register of members the Register for certificated or uncertificated shares of the company as the case may be at 6 p. m. on Wednesday 25th April 2007 the Specified Time will be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at the time.
Changes to entries on the Register after the Specified Time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at that meeting.
Should the meeting be adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
Should the meeting be adjourned for a longer period, then to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Register at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in the notice.
g Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
116 Glossary of terms Annualised net rents are gross rents as at a reporting date plus, Interest cover is the number of times group net interest payable is where rent reviews are outstanding, any increases to estimated covered by profit before interest and taxation.
rental value as determined by the groups external valuers, less any ground rents payable under head leases.
IPD is the Investment Property Databank Ltd. a company that produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
BREEAM Building Research Environmental Assessment Method an industry wide system of standards to assess sustainable Knock-out options are interest rate swap contracts in which the developments and measure the environmental impact of buildings.
bank has the right to terminate at a fixed point during the contract.
Capital allowances deferred tax provision.
In accordance with Marshalling is the process of progressing projects through planning IAS 12, full provision has been made for the deferred tax arising on and development.
the benefit of capital allowances claimed to date.
However, in the groups experience, the liabilities in respect of capital allowances Net rental income is the rental income receivable in the period after provided are unlikely to crystallise in practice and are therefore payment of ground rents and net property outgoings.
excluded when arriving at EPRA NAV.
Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale CESR Community, environmental and social responsibility.
of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Community interest company is a limited company conducting a groups external valuers.
business or other activity for community benefit, not purely for private advantage.
The assets and profits are dedicated to In accordance with usual practice, the groups external valuers community purposes.
report valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
Compulsory purchase order CPO is the compulsory acquisition of land by a planning authority, undertaken in the public interest and Pre-sold projects are those projects where we are constructing with pre-defined timescales and compensation arrangements.
buildings that have been specified by, and designed for, or adapted by, a specific client under a specific construction contract.
On such EPRA is the European Public Real Estate Association a body that projects, profit is recognised using the stage completion method.
has put forward recommendations for best practice for financial reporting by real estate companies.
Property profits includes profits made on sales of investment properties, properties held for sale and properties under construction.
EPRA net asset value EPRA NAV are the balance sheet net assets, excluding fair value adjustments for debt and related Rent roll is the gross rent plus rent reviews that have been agreed derivatives, deferred taxation on revaluation and capital allowances.
EPRA net assets per share is EPRA net assets divided by the Return on shareholders equity.
A key performance indicator, diluted number of shares at the period end.
measuring profit before tax as a percentage of average shareholders equity.
Estimated rental value ERV is the groups external valuers opinion as to the open market rent, which on the date of valuation, Section 106 agreements are legally binding agreements reached could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or with local planning authorities under S106 of the Town and Country rent review of the property.
They address the impact of proposed developments on the local community and often involve a financial Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and contribution by the developer.
reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce based on the timing of the income received.
Voids is the estimated rental value of vacant properties expressed as a percentage of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, Gearing is the level of the groups bank borrowing excluding cash excluding development properties.
and finance leases expressed as a percentage of net assets.
Each tranche of group debt is Hopper is the bank of property comprising all of the land under the multiplied by the remaining period to its maturity and the result is groups control, whether wholly owned or through joint ventures or divided by total group debt in issue at the period end.
Weighted average interest rate is the group loan interest and IFRS International financial reporting standards.
derivative costs per annum at the period end, divided by total group debt in issue at the period end.
Initial yield is the annualised net rent expressed as a percentage of the valuation.
01 01 RAF Bentley Priory In the desperate summer of 1940, possibly the darkest period in the Second World War, Bentley Priory was at the heart of Britains fight for survival.
It was Air Chief 2 2 Marshal Sir Hugh Dowdings HQ in the Battle of Britain.
Now one of the sites acquired This document has been produced on Mega Silk coated paper 350gm and 170gm with 50% recovered fibre and 50% total chlorine free pulp from sustainable sources.
by VSM, the joint venture between Vinci PLC and St. Modwen, its redevelopment will see the original house at the heart of the complex retained, a tribute to the wartime Design strategy and project management by College Design heritage created, and the latter day military buildings replaced by a high quality residential development.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Head Office and Midlands Regional Office Sir Stanley Clarke House 7 Ridgeway Quinton Business Park Birmingham B32 1AF Tel 0121 222 9400 Fax 0121 222 9401 www.
