The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 38 Directors report continued Employees we understand the importance of creating and maintaining a working environment where the basic rights of all of our employees are recognised.
It is our policy not to discriminate between employees, or potential employees, on any grounds examples include but are not limited to: age, gender, sexual orientation, nationality, political orientation, creed, race, ethnic origin, marital status or disability, and we are committed to promoting equal opportunities for all.
We recognise that attracting, retaining and motivating appropriately skilled people is essential to our success: it is through their sustained efforts that we strive to meet or exceed our customers expectations.
Recruitment, promotion and the development of our employees are all based on each individuals aptitude, abilities and skills, and we are committed to providing our employees with suitable training according to their role and responsibilities.
It is group policy to ensure there should be effective communication with all employees who, subject to practical and commercial considerations, are consulted and involved in decisions which affect their current jobs or future prospects.
Textile Suppliers we fully support Convention No.
138 of the International Labour Organisation, which seeks to ensure the effective abolition of child labour and to raise progressively the minimum age for admission to employment or work to a level consistent with the fullest physical and mental development of young persons.
All of our businesses are required to seek conrmation that suppliers, and in particular overseas textile suppliers, adopt appropriate labour practices including a fair and honest approach to their employees and anyone with whom they trade.
These labour practices should cover not only the employees age but also their working conditions and general treatment.
In 2006 the major sourcing companies within the group have placed increasing focus on how suppliers are adopting appropriate labour standards, which has involved the signing of cooperation agreements and visits by business unit management to review working standards.
The Community we give due consideration to the obligations we have to the communities in which we operate.
We respect all local resident cultures and religions, and develop and maintain constructive relationships with local communities.
For example, many of our sites are in suburban areas and therefore we monitor carefully the impact that our operations have on local residents: in particular we work together with them regarding both noise and pollution.
Creditor payment policy It continues to be the groups policy to agree the terms of payment with each of its suppliers at the commencement of the trading relationship and to abide by those terms provided that the supplier has performed in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
Trade creditor days of the company for the year ended 31st December 2006 were 10 days 2005: 8 days and for the groups major trading companies were 35 days 2005: 31 days.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in ofce and a resolution that they may be reappointed will be proposed at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
The directors are confident that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
The directors have taken all steps that ought to have been taken in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the board David Lawler Company Secretary 23rd February 2007 Directors responsibilities for the financial statements The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the Report on directors remuneration.
The financial statements on pages 41 to 87 have been prepared on a going concern basis, suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the group and company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the board David Lawler Company Secretary 23rd February 2007 Financial statements Group 40 Independent auditors report 41 Consolidated income statement 42 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 43 Consolidated balance sheet 44 Consolidated cash ow statement 45 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements 50 Notes to financial statements
