The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 45 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements Basis of preparation Business combinations The group financial statements have been prepared in accordance Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations are with EU Endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, accounted for using the purchase method acquisition IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 1985 applicable to accounting.
The cost of a business acquisition is the aggregate companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial of fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities statements have been prepared under the historical cost incurred or assumed, equity instruments issued by the acquirer and any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
convention, as modied by the assets held for sale and financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value The cost of a business combination is allocated at the acquisition through income statement.
date by recognising the acquirees identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria, at their fair These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with values at that date.
The acquisition date is the date on which the the accounting policies, set out below, which have been acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
An intangible consistently applied to all the years presented, except for those asset, such as customer contracts, brands, patents or royalties, is where IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial recognised if it meets the denition of an intangible asset in IAS 38 Reporting Standards, permitted companies adopting IFRS for the Intangible assets, and its fair value can be measured reliably.
first time last year to take exemptions.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded The following standards, amendments and interpretations as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value to published standards are mandatory for accounting periods of the groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, beginning on or after 1st January 2006 but they are not relevant the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
or have no material impact to the groups operation: IAS 21 Amendment, Net investment in a foreign operation.
Foreign currency translation IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Amendment, Financial guarantee contracts.
a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the IAS 39 Amendment, Fair value option.
groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary IAS 39 Amendment, Cash ow hedge accounting of forecast economic environment in which the entity operates the intragroup transactions.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the companys functional IAS 19 Amendment, Employee benets.
The following standards and interpretations have been published b Group companies and are mandatory for the groups accounting period beginning The results of group entities that have a functional currency 1st January 2007 or later periods but which the group has not different from the presentation currency Sterling are translated early adopted: into Sterling at the average exchange rate and the balance sheets IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and the complimentary are translated at year-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements arising on retranslation are taken directly to shareholders equity.
The standard introduces new disclosures and In addition, exchange differences arising from the translation of does not impact the groups valuation of financial instruments.
borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2.
IFRIC 8 requires consideration of of such investments are also taken to shareholders equity.
transactions involving the issuance of equity instruments where Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition the identiable consideration received is less than the fair value of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign of the equity instruments issued.
The group will apply IFRIC 8 entity and translated at the closing rate.
from 1st January 2007 but it is not expected to have any impact on the accounts.
Revenue recognition IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
IFRIC 10 Group revenue comprises the fair value for the rendering of prohibits the impairment losses recognised in an interim period on services, net of value added tax and other similar sales based taxes, goodwill and investments in equity instruments and in financial rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the group.
assets carried at cost to be reversed at a subsequent balance sheet Revenue is recognised as follows: date.
The group will apply IFRIC 10 from 1st January 2007 but it is a Rental service income not expected to have any impact on the accounts.
Rental assets such as garments, linen and washroom equipment Modeluxe has been presented as a discontinued operation in both which are owned by the group entities where substantially all the the current and prior year, following the disposal in October 2006. risks and rewards of ownership of such equipment is retained by group entities are capitalised as xed assets and depreciated over Consolidation their estimated useful lives.
The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements Income received or receivable in respect of service income is of the company and all its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are all entities credited to revenue as and when services are rendered in respect over which the group has the power to govern the financial and of linen and washroom services.
Rental income from rental assets operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more is accounted for on an operating lease basis and is credited to than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated revenue on a time apportioned basis.
from the date on which control is transferred to the group and are fide-consolidated from the date on which control ceases.
b Sale of goods revenue For non-contract based business, revenue represents the value All intra-group transactions are eliminated as part of the of goods delivered.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 46 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements Share capital Costs that are directly associated with the production of identiable Ordinary shares are classied as equity and are recorded at par and unique software products controlled by the group, and that value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Where shares it is estimated will generate economic benets exceeding costs are issued above par value, the proceeds in excess of par value are beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs recorded in the share premium account.
include the costs of software development employees.
Where any group company purchases the companys equity share Computer software development costs recognised as assets capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable are amortised over their estimated useful lives not exceeding incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to the five years.
companys shareholders until the shares are cancelled, reissued c Customer contracts or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or Intangible assets arising either from legal or contractual rights reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable which have been purchased are required to be separately identied incremental costs, is included in equity attributable to the from goodwill and are stated at historical cost, or in the case of companys shareholders.
intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination, at fair value.
The fair value attributable to the customer contracts is Segment reporting determined by discounting the expected future cash ows to be A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged generated from that asset at the risk adjusted weighted average in providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are cost of capital for the group.
This amount is amortised over the different from those of other business segments.
A geographical period in which the company is expected to benefit from the segment is engaged in providing services within a particular contracts acquired, over periods ranging from two to five years.
economic environment that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other Property, plant and equipment economic environments.
Land and buildings comprise mainly factories and ofces.
Based on the risks and returns, the directors consider that the All property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less subsequent depreciation and impairment, except for land, which is shown at primary reporting format is by business segment and that the cost less impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly secondary reporting format is by geographical analysis by origin attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight line method Exceptional items to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its Items that are either material in size or non operating in nature estimated useful life, as follows: are presented as exceptional items in the Income Statement.
The directors are of the opinion that the separate recording of a Land and buildings exceptional items provides helpful information about the groups Depreciated at a rate of 2% per annum on an estimate of the underlying business performance.
Examples of events, which may buildings value of freehold properties and leasehold properties with give rise to the classication of items as exceptional include, inter 50 or more years unexpired at the balance sheet date.
This rate has alia, restructuring of businesses, gains and losses on disposal of been determined having regard to the groups practice to maintain properties, impairment of goodwill and non-recurring income.
these assets in a continual state of sound repair and to extend and make improvements from time to time.
Freehold land is not Dividend distribution depreciated.
Short leasehold land and buildings are depreciated Final dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is recognised by equal instalments over the period of the lease.
as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
of the related asset or to the date of the next major renovation, Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
b Plant and machinery Intangible assets Depreciated at rates of 10% to 50% per annum, depending a Goodwill on the class of the asset.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over c Hire and rental inventory the fair value of the groups share of the net identiable assets Depreciated at rates of 20% to 33%, depending on class of asset, of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill net and augmented by amounts to cover wastage, obsolescence of amortisation prior to 1st January 2005 in respect of business and loss.
combinations made since 1st January 1998 is included within intangible assets.
Goodwill in respect of business combinations When properties, plant or equipment are sold, the difference made on or before 31st December 1997 remains eliminated between the sales proceeds and net book value is included in the against reserves.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating Residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed annually and units.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose amended where necessary.
An assets carrying amount is written of impairment testing.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is except for goodwill eliminated against reserves.
the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing value in use, assets are grouped at b Computer software Intellectual property rights the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable cash Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of ows cash-generating units and cash ow forecasts are made on the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
the assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date budgets and These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives not plans that have been formally approved by the directors.
These cash exceeding three years.
ows are discounted using the weighted average cost of capital for the group, adjusted for the particular risks of the cash generating unit being reviewed for impairment.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 47 Inventories Employee benets Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
a Pension obligations Cost is determined using the first in, first out FIFO method.
The group operates various pension schemes.
The schemes are The cost of nished goods and work in progress comprises of raw funded through payments to insurance companies or a trustee materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production administered fund, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the The group has both dened benefit and dened contribution plans.
ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
A dened benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of Full provision is made for obsolete, defective and slow moving stock.
pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and Trade receivables compensation.
A dened contribution plan is a pension plan under Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and which the group pays xed contributions into a separate entity.
subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for The group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all established when there is objective evidence that the group will not employees the benets relating to employee service in the current be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms and prior periods.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of dened benefit pension plans is the present value of the dened benefit Cash and cash equivalents obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains at call with banks, other short term highly liquid investments with or losses and past service costs.
The dened benefit obligation is original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected Bank overdrafts are shown separately from current liabilities unit credit method.
The present value of the dened benefit on the balance sheet.
obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that Borrowings are denominated in the currency in which the benets will be paid, Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised related pension liability.
Any difference between the amount initially recognised net Current and past service costs, to the extent they have vested, are of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the recognised in operating costs in the Income Statement together income statement over the period of the borrowings using the with interest costs on plan liabilities and the expected return on effective interest method.
Borrowings are classied as non-current liabilities where the group Cumulative actuarial gains and losses arising from experience has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at adjustments and change in actuarial assumptions are credited or least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
charged to the statement of recognised income and expense net of deferred tax.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction For dened contribution plans, the group pays contributions to or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily publicly or privately administered pension insurance or trustee take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended administered plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until the asset is basis.
The group has no further payment obligations once the complete and ready for use.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a in the period in which they are incurred.
cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Deferred income tax b Share based plans Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, The groups management awards employees share options, from on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets time to time, both on a discretionary and non-discretionary basis and liabilities and their carrying amounts.
Deferred income tax is which are subject to vesting conditions.
The economic cost of determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or awarding the share options to its employees is recognised as an substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected employee benefit expense in the Income Statement equivalent to to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised the fair value of the benefit awarded.
The fair value is determined or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
by reference to the Black-Scholes option pricing model, for those Schemes which have no market-based vesting conditions and the Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Monte-Carlo Model for the awards under the Performance Share probable that future taxable profits will be available against which Plan.
The charge is recognised in the Income Statement over the the temporary differences can be utilised.
vesting period of the award.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that The proceeds received are credited to share capital nominal value it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is and share premium when the options are exercised.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 48 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements c Termination benets Accounting for derivative financial instruments Termination benets are payable when an employment is and hedging activities terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured benets.
The group recognises termination benets when it is at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method of shown to be committed to either: terminating the employment recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination benets as nature of the item being hedged.
The group designates certain a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
derivatives as either i hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or ii hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
d Holiday pay Paid holidays are regarded as an employee benefit and as such The group documents at the inception of the transaction the are charged to the Income Statement as the benets are earned.
relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items and An accrual is made at the balance sheet date to reect the fair its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of value of holidays earned but not yet taken.
whether the derivatives that are used in the hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
Provisions The fair value of various derivative instruments used for hedging Provisions for vacant properties, restructuring costs and legal claims purposes are disclosed in note 17.
Movements on the hedging are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive reserve in shareholders equity are shown in note 24.
All outstanding obligation as a result of past events and it is more likely than not derivative fair values are classied as non-current as the remaining that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: maturity of the hedged items is greater than 12 months.
The group and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Leases a Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are fully designated a The group is the lessee and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement, Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group has together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and The group has one fair value hedge in respect of a cross currency the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease xed to oating interest rate swap.
If the hedge no longer meets payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges the criteria for hedge accounting, the exchange component of so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
the derivative will continue to be taken to the profit and loss The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are other gains and losses along with the exchange on the related included in other long term payables.
The interest element of the borrowings.
The interest component of the derivative item will finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease be amortised to the profit and loss over the period to maturity.
period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the b Net investment hedge remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Property, plant Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over portion of the hedge is recognised directly against reserves.
The gain the shorter of the assets useful life and the lease term.
or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and in the Income Statement.
rewards of ownership are classied as operating leases.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or received from the lessor are charged to the income statement sold.
For the groups business disposals in 2005 and 2006 this has on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
not been relevant as they have not formed part of a net investment b The group is the lessor hedge relationship.
Assets leased to third parties by the group are classied as c Cash ow hedge operating leases and are included in property, plant and equipment The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives in the balance sheet.
They are depreciated over their expected useful that are designated to qualify as cash ow hedges are recognised lives see property, plant and equipment section.
The groups cash ow hedges which are in respect of net of any incentives given to lessees is recognised on a straight cross-currency interest rate swaps and interest rate swaps result line basis over the lease term.
in recognition in either the currency translation component of equity or in the hedging reserve.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction ultimately occurs.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity will be transferred to the income statement.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 49 d Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting b Pensions and other post-employment benets Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not The group operates a number of dened benefit schemes within qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the the UK and the continent note 31.
As at 31st December 2006 income statement.
the present value of the groups dened benefit obligation for funded plans was 27.8 million and 14.3 million for e Energy contracts unfunded plans.
The group occasionally takes out energy contracts in relation to the supply of gas and electricity.
Such contracts are not recognised The calculations of the recognised assets and liabilities from as financial instruments as they are held with the purpose of the such plans are based upon statistical and actuarial calculations.
receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the In particular the present value of the dened benefit obligation entitys expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
is impacted by assumptions on discount rates used to arrive at the present value of future pension liabilities, and assumptions on Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty future increases in salaries and benets.
Furthermore, the groups The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in independent actuaries use statistically based assumptions covering conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and areas such as future withdrawals of participants from the plan assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported and estimates on life expectancy.
The actuarial assumptions used amounts of assets, liabilities, income, expenses and related may differ materially from actual results due to changes in market disclosures.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are based and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or on historical experience and various other factors that are believed longer or shorter life spans of participants and other changes in to be reasonable under the circumstances.
This forms the basis the factors being assessed.
These differences could impact the of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and assets or liabilities recognised in the balance sheet in future periods.
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The triannual valuation of the main UK pension scheme will take Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an c Income taxes ongoing basis.
Changes in accounting estimates may be necessary At 31st December 2006, the net liability for current income taxes if there are changes in the circumstances on which the estimate is 2.0 million and the net liability for deferred income taxes is was based, or as a result of new information or more experience.
28.1 million as disclosed in note 19.
Estimates may be required Such changes are recognised in the period in which the estimate in determining the level of current and deferred income tax assets is revised.
and liabilities, which management believes are reasonable and adequately recognises any income tax related uncertainties.
The key assumptions about the future and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a risk of causing a material Various factors may have favourable or unfavourable effects on the adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities within income tax assets and liabilities.
These include changes in tax laws, the next twelve months are described below.
tax rates, interpretations of existing tax laws, future levels of spending and in overall levels of future earnings.
a Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, including goodwill The group has property, plant and equipment with a carrying value of 392.3 million note 11, goodwill with a carrying value of 297.0 million note 9 and intangible assets with a carrying value of 29.5 million note 10.
These assets are reviewed annually for impairment as described above intangible assets and property, plant and equipment sections.
To assess if any impairment exists, estimates are made of the future cash ows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposal.
Actual outcomes could vary from such estimates of discounted future cash ows.
Factors such as changes in the planned use of buildings, machinery or equipment, or closure of facilities, the presence or absence of competition, or lower than anticipated sales could result in shortened useful lives or impairment.
