NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer or issue to or NOTICE OF ANNUAL in favour of ordinary shareholders on the register on a date fixed by the GENERAL MEETING Directors where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will all those shareholders are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the be held at The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JZ at 9.30 a. m. on respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on that date, but the Wednesday, 17 May 2007 for the purpose of considering and, if thought fit, Directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they consider passing the following resolutions which, in the case of resolutions numbered 1 expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems under to 9 inclusive, shall be proposed as ordinary resolutions and, in the case of the laws in any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or resolution numbered 10, will be proposed as a special resolution.
stock exchange: and b to the allotment other than under a above of equity securities having a nominal value not exceeding in aggregate 1,538,160.
ORDINARY BUSINESS and this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and financial statements for the meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or fifteen months year ended 31 December 2006. after the passing of this resolution, whichever shall be the sooner, save that the 2.
To confirm and declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares for the year Company may, before this authority expires, make an offer or agreement which ended 31 December 2006 of 1.67p per ordinary share payable to would or might require equity securities to be allotted after it expires and the shareholders on the register at the close of business on 16 March 2007.
Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired and provided further that this authority shall 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 supersede and revoke all previous authorities under Section 95 of the Act.
To re-appoint Mr A C Harris as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Mr J M Tonkiss as a Director of the Company.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD A D Reid 6.
To re-appoint Mr N A Porter as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Mr N P Hall as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors in accordance with Section 384 of Registered office: the Companies Act 1985 to hold office until the conclusion of the next The Core general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid and to authorise 40 St Thomas Street the Directors to determine their remuneration.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to 9.
THAT the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised, in attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to exercise A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice for all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined for the use at the meeting.
purposes of that Section up to a maximum nominal amount of 10,254,404 2.
To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy together with the power of attorney or other provided that this authority shall expire on the day five years after the passing of authority if any, under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, this Resolution unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company must be completed in accordance with the instructions set out on the form and deposited at or in general meeting, save that the Company may, before this authority expires, posted to the office of the registrars of the Company, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The make an offer of agreement which would or might require relevant securities to Pavilions, Bridgewater Road, Bristol BS13 3FB so as to be received not later than 9.30 a. m. on 15 be allotted after it expires and the Directors may allot relevant securities in May 2007.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending or voting at the meeting in person.
pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired and provided further that this authority shall supersede and revoke all previous 3.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, members will only be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting if they are registered on the Companys register of authorities under Section 80 of the Act.
members 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting, or any adjournment thereof.
THAT, in accordance with Section 95 of the Act, the Directors be given 4.
Copies of the Directors service contracts with the Company are available at the registered office of power to allot for cash equity securities as defined for the purpose of Section the Company for inspection during usual business hours on any weekday from the date of this 89 of the Act pursuant to the general authority conferred on them by notice until the date of the meeting and also on the day of the meeting at The Core, 40 St Thomas Resolution 9 above as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to the allotment, Street, Bristol BS1 6JZ from 9.15 a. m. until the conclusion of the meeting.
but this power shall be limited: 70
