Glossary Adjusted diluted NAV per share Stabilising properties The basic NAV per share figure is recalculated to take account of the Newly constructed properties generally take up to two years to achieve a existence of outstanding share options and adjusted to: consistent high level of occupancy.
exclude the impact of deferred tax UCAS exclude the mark to market of interest rate swaps UCAS is the central organisation that processes applications for full-time include the valuation gain not recognised on properties held at cost undergraduate courses at UK universities and colleges www.
Adjusted earnings per share UNIAID The diluted earnings per share excluding valuation gains, mark to market Uniaid Foundation is a charity that supports students in coping with the swap adjustment and deferred tax.
financial hurdles to higher education www.
Balance scorecard approach UNITE Letting Arrangements Developed to provide a new form of strategic management.
The balanced scorecard gives people a simple answer to the questions what does the Direct Let organisation need to do to succeed?
and how can we get all our people Properties where short-hold tenancy agreements are made directly between working in the same direction?.
the commercial operator and the student, save where the property is subject to Nominations.
HESA Lease The Higher Education Statistics Agency is the central source for the collection Properties which are leased to universities for a number of years.
and dissemination of statistics about publicly funded UK higher education.
Nominations Housing Act Properties where short-hold tenancy agreements are made with students, In 2004, the Government introduced the Housing Act, which requires with the university providing an occupancy guarantee in respect of a the private rented sector to meet certain basic standards and gives significant proportion of rooms for a period of at least ten years.
more protection to tenants from unscrupulous landlords.
Net rental growth The annual growth in income less costs from a property.
SDLT impact The impact on the value of the Groups properties resulting from the abolition of Stamp Duty Land Tax SDLT disadvantaged area relief in 2005.
This exemption was previously taken into account in arriving at the properties fair value.
