98 3i Report and accounts 2006 Returns and IRRs an explanation Our aim is to achieve market-beating returns by generating cash-to-cash vintage year IRRs of 20% for Buyouts and Growth Capital and 25% for Venture Capital What is an IRR measure?
What is a vintage and a vintage year?
How does 3is total return The Internal Rate of Return IRR is the A vintage is a collection of assets in which 3i equate to the IRR measures?
interim return earned by 3i investing in an makes its first investment during a defined Table 1 on page 16 shows an asset from the date of initial investment up period of time.
The most common time period analysis of 3is total return.
until a particular point in time.
It is calculated measured in the private equity industry is a as the annualised effective compound rate of year.
A vintage year at 3i includes all new Total return is calculated as the return, using monthly cash flows, generated investments made within our financial year, gross portfolio return plus other from the asset.
For assets that have yet to be ie vintage year 2006 covers new investments fee income, less costs and net sold, and therefore have not generated a final made from 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006. interest payable.
Total return cash inflow from sale proceeds, the asset Why does 3i track the performance of can be expressed as a quantum value at the date of calculation of the IRR is vintage years?
Looking at the performance eg 831 million for the year to used as the terminal cash flow.
An IRR can of a vintage enables us to assess the returns apply to a single asset or a pool of assets 31 March 2006 or as a percentage we are making on pools of assets invested eg all new investments made in financial year of opening shareholders funds during a vintage year.
It gives a measure of 2003 can be pooled to calculate an IRR for eg 22.5% for the year to 31 March the performance of each years investment vintage year 2003.
An IRR calculated using the current value of It also allows us to assess the return generated Gross portfolio return is made up the asset as the terminal cash flow is called a from assets over the length of time we of the income and value movement Fund IRR.
A Cash-to-cash IRR does not include hold them, rather than just looking at the both realised and unrealised any terminal value for unsold assets and is a performance between the beginning and end pure, more simple measure of cash invested generated from our portfolio.
of a financial year, which is shown in our yearly compared to cash returned as it does not total return statement.
The annual total return Costs include expenses and carried include any judgmental asset valuation for the analysis has limitations as a measure of interest payable.
longer-term performance as it is only a In the business line IRR tables included in the representation of how the assets have The elements that make up Business review, total investment represents performed in one financial year and is heavily the gross portfolio return are the all first and further investment in a vintage influenced by the valuation of the asset at the same constituents used in an and investment in externally managed funds, beginning and end of the year.
It does not IRR calculation.
while return flow consists of capital proceeds show the evolution of how a vintage year is and revenue.
Value remaining represents the performing over time.
Gross portfolio return stated as value still held within the vintages portfolio a percentage of opening portfolio To achieve this longer-term measure of based on our latest valuation.
performance over time, the IRR is the value will equate to an IRR standard measure used across the measure over time.
So, if 3i private equity industry.
achieves 20% gross portfolio returns each year, the long-term IRR will also move to 20%.
What is total shareholder return?
Total shareholder return is the change in share price over a period plus dividends reinvested.
3i Report and accounts 2006 Returns and IRRs an explanation 99 What IRR measures do 3i use to assess Chart 1 IRR evolution the performance of a vintage?
3i has published target Cash-to-cash IRRs for each business line.
These targets are 20% for 50 3i equity value uplift Buyouts and Growth Capital and 25% for 3i equity cost 35 30 Venture Capital.
3i shareholder loan A Cash-to-cash IRR cannot be meaningfully 25 25 25 25 used to measure the performance of a vintage until the majority of assets in that vintage are realised.
Therefore, 3i monitors the progress 75 75 75 75 of each vintage and the evolution of the IRR using a combination of the Fund IRRs and the extent to which a vintage is realised, to assess the interim performance.
Case A, depicted in Chart 1, is an example to show the interim Cash-to-cash IRR of an asset and clearly Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 indicates why, during the holding period of an Case A asset, the Fund IRR gives a more appropriate measure of performance.
Investment 100 Yield 6.5 6.5 6.5 Volatility, the portfolio effect and the Value at year end 130 135 holding period The published target IRRs are Sale proceeds 150 for each business line in aggregate.
It does not Fund IRR 0% 36% 22% 20% mean that the IRR for each asset in those Cash-to-cash IRR 100% 94% 71% 20% business lines will achieve the target IRRs individually.
There will always be a range of IRRs achieved on each of the individual assets Tracking our progress To monitor a vintage in each vintage year.
However, when assets year we use a combination of Fund IRRs and are pooled together, the portfolio effect will money multiples.
The Fund IRR to give a reduce this overall volatility in each vintage measure of performance and the money year.
The range of volatility we expect in any multiple to show how much cash has been one given vintage year is -10% for Buyouts, returned compared to cost eg Case A 1.7x -7% for Growth Capital and -15% for so that we can assess the extent to which that Venture Capital.
Across the cycle, we expect the volatility to We have published the Fund IRRs for each average out at -5% for Buyouts, -3% for business line within the Business review Growth Capital and -7% for Venture Capital.
Buyouts on page 23, Growth Capital on page 27 and Venture Capital on page 31 for the A 3i vintage year is made up of many assets.
All will have their own individual cash flows and different timings of when value uplift occurs and holding periods.
We believe that after three years the maturity of a vintage will have developed enough for the Fund IRR to give a good indication of the final outcome.
By seven years most vintage years will be largely realised.
