3i Report and accounts 2006 97 Private equity and venture capital a lexicon Definitions Private equity, as the term suggests, The investment lifecycle The investment lifecycle Drivers of private equity investment Some of the involves investment of equity capital in private for an investment can be broken down into five main drivers giving rise to investment opportunities businesses.
There are three broad categories of distinct phases, with each involving significant resource are as follows: investment within private equity: and capability on the part of the VC: Stock market conditions and M&A activity Venture capital investment this is investment in Origination the ability to access and create levels a strong stock market acts in many ways as start-up and early or late stage technology investment opportunities is critical to the an engine for private equity, since it allows businesses.
These businesses are usually engaged in PE investors business model.
acquisitive listed companies to purchase businesses life sciences research or technology development at attractive prices and also is more receptive to Developing and validating the investment case activities.
Here, the investor the VC would usually businesses seeking a listing.
The ability of the this phase involves capability in the areas of take a minority equity stake ie less than 50% of the PE investor to exit at reasonably high values is a judgment, knowledge and experience within the equity shares in the business as part of a syndicate key part of the investment model, and exit particular business area in which the opportunity lies: of venture investors: and the aim of the investment assumptions will be a key input to the pricing building a management team and working with it to is to provide funding for development or research parameters at the time of investing.
In addition, develop the value growth strategy: consideration expenditure through a series of investment rounds.
strong activity levels in the M&A market which will of the exit strategy: and due diligence on all Progress and prospects are re-assessed ahead of the often follow from good stock market conditions significant assumptions and inputs to the provision of further funding.
tend to provide a source of investment opportunities investment case.
when the acquiring group disposes of the unwanted Growth capital or development capital parts of the business acquired.
Structuring and making the investment this investment this involves the provision of capital phase involves financial structuring, negotiation to accelerate the growth of established businesses Restructuring by large corporate groups as and project management skills on the part of and generally involves the private equity investor corporate groups change strategic direction or the PE investor.
Relationships with banks, mezzanine PE investor taking a minority equity position.
focus on core activities, they will often seek to sell finance providers, intermediaries and others unwanted or non-core subsidiaries or divisions, It is a type of investment suited to a diverse range are also important.
of growth opportunities, including acquisitions, providing a good source of buyout opportunities.
increasing production capacity, market or product Implementing the value growth strategy Entrepreneurial culture this is to do with the development, turnaround opportunities, shareholder this phase involves actually making it happen, eagerness, across a society, of individuals to start up succession and change of ownership situations.
delivering value growth between making the or grow businesses or to give up a secure corporate investment and exit.
If the strategy involves Buyout investment this involves the purchase job for the opportunity to run or manage an corporate acquisitions or mergers, restructuring of an existing independent business or a subsidiary independent business.
the business, achieving growth in turnover or or division of a corporate group from its current operating profits, the PE investor would need to Growth strategies the pursuit of profits by owners.
This category of investment includes have the required capability to ensure these are businesses will often involve the use of growth management buyouts, management buy-ins, achieved.
As important is the ability to assess and strategies.
Whether the strategy is to grow institutional buyouts, etc.
Here, the equity in the strengthen the management team as the life cycle organically or through acquisition, there will usually post-buyout business is usually shared between be a funding requirement, which can be met through proceeds this might involve having access to a the management team and the PE investor, with pool of management talent in order to match a the provision of growth capital.
the PE investor usually holding a majority stake.
particular need to a particular management skill-set.
The finance for the buyout would generally comprise Regulatory factors regulatory factors will often around 60% of senior and mezzanine debt usually Exit this phase generally involves a trade sale or act to force corporations to sell off business units provided by banks and mezzanine providers, with flotation of the underlying business.
Exit prospects or to limit or restrict courses of action by parties substantially all of the balance of the purchase price and strategy should generally be reviewed on an operating in the complex world of business.
coming from the PE investor and a relatively small ongoing basis during the investments life and Additionally, regulatory factors can act to incentivise amount coming from the management team.
the sale or flotation itself requires resource and certain types of investment or courses of action.
In order to reflect the mismatch between the equity capability from the PE investor, since both are Either way, regulation can give rise to investment finance provided respectively by the PE investor and lengthy and complex processes.
the management team and the equity stake taken Developments in information technology and by each in the underlying business, a large part of Types of investment vehicle The predominant life sciences these act as engines for early stage the PE investors finance is generally provided in the vehicle in the industry is the independent, private, investment, as entrepreneurs seek to exploit the form of redeemable preference shares or fixed-life, closed-end fund, usually organised as a development and research opportunities arising.
These funds typically have a fixed life of 10 years.
Investments generally consist of an Succession issues especially in family-owned Investment objective Like any other investment, initial commitment of capital which is then drawn businesses, succession issues can give rise to the objective of the PE investor is to earn attractive down as the investment manager finds investment investment opportunities.
returns on its investment commensurate with the risk opportunities.
Capital is returned to the investor via being taken.
The returns come either in the form of earnings distributions and sales of investments.
income interest, dividends or fees or capital gains.
Some investment vehicles are organised as captive or The contrast with investment in quoted companies is semi-captive funds.
A captive fund invests only for that the PE investor will usually prefer to crystallise its the interest of its parent organisation which may capital gain through a trade sale ie a sale to a be, for example, a bank or investment bank, insurance corporate purchaser, a sale to a financial purchaser or company, university.
A semi-captive fund mixes a flotation on the public markets of the underlying capital from both outside investors and the parent business.
This preference tends to make private equity organisation.
Both captive and semi-captive funds investment medium to long term in nature, since tend to be evergreen in nature income from time is required to implement the value growth investments and proceeds received on the realisation strategy for the business and there will also be a of investments are substantially retained for further wish to optimise the timing of the exit.
investment rather than being returned to investors.
There are also a limited number of private equity investment companies, such as 3i, whose shares are listed on a stock exchange.
These tend to be evergreen in nature and offer investors a relatively liquid exposure to private equity.
