Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared for the first time in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted in the EU IFRS, and its interpretations adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB or the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee or their predecessors IFRIC, which had been approved by the European Commission as at 30 September 2006.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are set out in note 37.
In accordance with the transitional provisions set out in IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS and other relevant standards, the Group has applied the Companies Act 1985 and IFRS in force as at 30 September 2006 in its financial reporting with effect from 1 October 2004 with the exception of the standards relating to financial instruments which were applied from 1 October 2005, as described below.
Therefore in accordance with IFRS 1, the impact of adopting IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are not included in the 2005 comparatives.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair values: derivative financial instruments, financial assets held as available for sale and financial assets held for trading.
The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, are set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported values of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances and they are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Where estimates were previously made under UK GAAP, consistent estimates have been made on transition to IFRS.
Statement of compliance Both the parent company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with IFRS.
On publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form part of the approved financial statements.
First time adoption of IFRS Under the first time adoption procedures set out in IFRS 1, the Group is required to establish its IFRS accounting policies as at 1 October 2005 and to apply these retrospectively in the determination of prior period comparatives from 1 October 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
There are a number of optional exemptions to this general principle, the most significant of which are set out below.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations The Group has not applied IFRS 3 Business Combinations retrospectively to business combinations that occurred prior to the date of transition.
The carrying value of goodwill in the UK GAAP balance sheet as at 30 September 2004 has accordingly been brought forward without adjustment.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payments The Group has elected to apply IFRS 2 to all share based awards and payments granted after 7 November 2002 but not vested at 1 January 2005.
IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates Cumulative translation differences for all foreign exchange operations have been deemed to be zero at the date of transition.
Gains or losses on the subsequent disposal of any foreign operation shall exclude translation differences that arose before the date of transition.
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment The fair value of owner occupied property at the date of transition has been used as its deemed cost at that date.
Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of the financial statements necessitates the use of estimates, assumptions and judgements.
These estimates, assumptions and judgements affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 41 Accounting policies continued the balance sheet date as well as affecting the reported income and expenses for the year.
Although the estimates are based on managements best knowledge and judgement of information and financial data, the actual outcome may differ from these estimates.
The key assumptions which affect the results for the year and balances as at the year-end are specically identied, where appropriate, in the notes to the Group financial statements.
New standards and interpretations not applied During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued a number of new standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards will materially impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
The Group plans to apply these standards in the reporting period when they become effective.
The new standards include IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures which is effective for accounting periods starting after 1 January 2006.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will have to disclose additional information about its financial instruments, their signicance and the nature and extent of risks that they give rise to.
More specically the Group will need to disclose the fair value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater detail.
There will be no impact on reported income or net assets.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information in these financial statements incorporates the results, cash ows and financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries for the period to 30 September 2006.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company and their results are included from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant inuence commences until the date that significant inuence ceases.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant inuence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
All inter-company transactions, balances, income and expenses between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Revenue Revenue from the provision of asset management and property asset management services is recognised as the services are provided and includes management fees, transaction fees, performance fees and registration fees.
Initial income from the sale of shares in open ended investment companies received in advance is taken to the balance sheet and amortised over the period of the asset management service, which is estimated based on the Groups experience of the average holding periods by investors.
The Group has entitlement to earn performance fees from a number of clients where the actual fund performance of the clients assets exceed deferred benchmarks by an agreed level of outperformance in a set time period.
Performance fees are recognised when the quantum of the fee can be estimated reliably, which is normally at the end of the performance period, when this occurs on or before the reporting date, or where there is a period of less than six months remaining to the end of the performance period and there is evidence at the reporting date which suggests that the current performance will be sustainable.
Finance revenue Finance revenue comprises interest, dividends and expected return on pension assets.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues.
Dividend income is recognised when the Groups right to receive payment is established which, in the case of listed securities, is the ex-dividend date.
42 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Realised and unrealised gains and losses on investments Gains and losses both realised and unrealised on financial assets designated as held for trading are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Realised and unrealised gains are recognised as part of revenue.
Gains and losses on financial assets designated as available-for-sale are initially recognised through the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Upon disposal, any gain or loss taken through the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense is reversed out and the full gain or loss from purchase, after any impairment charge previously recognised, taken through the consolidated income statement.
Realised gains and losses on investments are calculated as the difference between the net sales proceeds and cost or amortised cost.
Unrealised gains and losses on investments represent the difference between the valuation of investments at the balance sheet date and their original cost, or if they have been previously revalued, the valuation at the last balance sheet date.
The movement in unrealised gains and losses recognised in the accounting period also includes the reversal of investment disposals in the current accounting period.
Finance costs Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, interest on pension liabilities and dividends on preference shares.
Leases All Group leases are operating leases, being leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset.
Rental payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised as a reduction in the rental expense, recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Pension costs The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is a self-administered money purchase scheme.
In addition overseas subsidiaries make contributions to various trade and state dened contribution schemes.
Benets from these schemes are based on contributions made.
Obligations for contributions to these dened contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement.
The Group also operates three legacy dened benefit pension schemes which arose on acquisitions.
All three schemes are closed to new membership and to future service accruals.
The Groups net obligation in respect of these schemes is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that members have earned in return for their service in prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
The benets are discounted at a rate equal to the yield on high credit rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualied actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The surplus or deficit in respect of dened benefit schemes is expressed as the excess or shortfall of the fair value of the assets of the scheme compared to the present value of the scheme liabilities and is recognised as an asset or liability of the Group.
Interest costs on the liability, expected return on plan assets and the costs of curtailments and settlements are recognised in the Income Statement.
All actuarial gains and losses as at 1 October 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, were recognised.
Actuarial gains and losses arising after 1 October 2004 are recognised in the period in which they occur directly in equity.
Employee benets Short term employee benets Short term employee benets are recognised as an undiscounted expense and liability when the employee has rendered services during an accounting period.
Short term accumulating compensated absences are recognised when the employee renders the service that increases his entitlement to future compensated absence.
Non-accumulating compensated absences are recognised when the absence occurs.
profit sharing and bonus payments These are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation to make such payments as a result of past events and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 43 Accounting policies continued Termination benets Termination benets are recognised as a liability and an expense when the Group is committed to the termination of employment before the normal retirement date.
A commitment to such termination benets arises when the Group has initiated detailed plans which cannot realistically be withdrawn.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding basis used for tax purposes.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method and is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability settled.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised, except: In respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Where the deferred liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination: and at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor loss.
Property, plant & equipment Property, plant & equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditure on property, plant & equipment is capitalised on initial recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised when it is probable that there will be future economic benets associated with the item and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other expenditure is recognised in the Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
Property, plant & equipment is depreciated so as to write off the cost of assets, on a straight line basis, over their estimated useful lives as follows: Heritable property: 50 years Leasehold property: over the period of the lease Property improvements: shorter of 5 years or the period of the lease Computers, xtures & ttings: 3 10 years Motor vehicles: 4 years The carrying value of these assets is reviewed at each reporting date.
An assessment is made as to whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired: if any such indication exists and where the carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Any impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation, representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised in the balance sheet.
The carrying value of goodwill at 1 October 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, is equivalent to the carrying value under UK GAAP.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cash-generating unit for the purpose of impairment testing.
44 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Management contracts The useful lives of management contracts in respect of open end funds are considered indefinite and are therefore not subject to amortisation.
The Group tests for impairment of these assets annually or more frequently if there is an indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Management contracts in respect of segregated mandates are considered to have a nite life and are therefore amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated average contract term of 10 years, with amortisation charged to the Income Statement.
Other intangible assets Purchased intangible assets have a nite life and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the Income Statement on a straight line basis according to the useful economic life of the intangible asset as follows: Software 3 years Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benets embodied in the specic asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made as to whether there is any indication that an asset in use may be impaired.
If any such indication exists and the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
They are categorised as described below.
Financial investments at fair value through profit or loss include investments held for trading purposes.
They are carried at fair value in the balance sheet and gains or losses are taken to the income statement.
The following assets and liabilities are classied as held for trading: Current assets Financial investments Stock of units and shares Current liabilities Investment contract liabilities Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair value in the balance sheet.
Movements in fair value are taken to the fair value reserve until derecognition of the asset, at which time the cumulative amount dealt with through this reserve is recognised in the income statement.
The following assets are designated as available for sale: Non-current assets Other financial investments Included in this category are the Groups investments in private equity partnerships.
The fair value of these investments represents the Groups direct investments and entitlement to carried interest distributions, both of which are measured with reference to the European Private Equity and Venture Capital Association Valuation Guidelines.
Loans and receivables and other financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The following assets and liabilities are classied as loans and receivables: Convertible bonds that can be converted to share capital at the option of the holder, where the number of shares issued does not vary with changes in their fair value, are accounted for as compound financial instruments with a liability and equity component.
Transaction costs that relate to the issue of a compound financial instrument are allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to the allocation of proceeds.
The equity component of the convertible bonds is calculated as the excess of the issue proceeds over the present value of the future interest and principal payments, discounted at the market rate of interest applicable to similar liabilities that do not have a conversion option.
The equity component is not remeasured annually.
The interest expense recognised in the income statement is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
IAS 32 39 has been adopted prospectively from 1 October 2005.
Prior to its adoption financial instruments were stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The Group has adopted trade date accounting.
Accordingly, a financial investment is recognised on the date the Group commits to its purchase and derecognised on the date on which the Group commits to its sale.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 45 Accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits and investments in money market instruments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the statement of cash ows.
Investment contracts The Group sells unit linked life and pension contracts through its insurance subsidiary, Aberdeen Asset Management Life and Pensions Limited L&P.
Management fees earned from these contracts are accounted for as described in the accounting policy for revenue.
L&P is consolidated into the Group financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
Unit linked policyholder assets held by L&P and related policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value taken to profit or loss.
Amounts received from and paid to investors under these contracts are treated as deposits received or paid and therefore not recorded in the Income Statement.
Charges due under these contracts are recognised in the Income Statement.
At the balance sheet date the value of these contracts is stated at an amount equal to the fair value of the net assets held to match the contractual obligations.
Investment in subsidiares In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less impairment.
Impairment The Group carries out annual impairment reviews in respect of goodwill and intangible xed assets with indefinite lives.
The Group carries out impairment reviews in respect of property, plant & equipment and other assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cashgenerating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount for any asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
Goodwill was tested for impairment at 1 October 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, even though no indication of impairment existed.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Preference share capital The issued preference capital is classied as an element of equity as it is irredeemable, except at the Companys option, and dividend payments are discretionary.
Dividends on preference shares are recognised as distributions within equity.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outow of economic benets will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specic to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
No provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured in that functional currency.
46 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences arising are taken to the Income Statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated to the functional currency using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction and so no exchange differences arise.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Where fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reected in the Income Statement, the corresponding exchange movements are also recognised in the Income Statement.
Where fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reected directly in equity, the corresponding exchange movements are also recognised directly in equity.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement on disposal.
Segment reporting The Groups primary reporting segments are its two operating divisions, namely the fund management division and the property division.
Share based payments The Executive Share Option Scheme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted after 7 November 2002 is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a trinomial lattice model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
The fair value of awards under the Groups long term incentive plan LTIP is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is initially measured at the date of the award and is spread over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of LTIP awards is based on the market price of the underlying shares at the date of the award, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the award was made.
Employee benets trust The Group has an Employee benefit Trust EBT which owns shares in the Company for the purposes of administering the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan.
The EBT is consolidated into the Groups and parent companys financial statements, with these shares deducted from equity.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 47
