Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-fourth Annual General Meeting of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC will be held at the Marcliffe at Pitfodels Hotel, North Deeside Road, Aberdeen, AB15 9YA at 12.00 noon on 19 January 2007 for the following purposes: For ease of reference, explanatory notes are attached to each resolution.
The formal resolutions are contained in bold text.
To receive the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2006 together with the Auditors Report thereon.
Each financial year, the Directors are required to present to the meeting the Audited Accounts and the Directors and Auditors Reports for the financial year.
To declare a final dividend of 2.4 pence per ordinary share of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company ordinary share.
The Board recommend that a final dividend of 2.4 pence per ordinary share is paid.
If approved by the shareholders, this dividend will be paid on 31 January 2007 to ordinary shareholders on the register of members at 6.00 pm on 15 December 2006.
To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration.
The Companys auditors must offer themselves for reappointment at each Annual General Meeting at which accounts are presented.
On the advice of the Audit Committee, the Board propose that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditor of the Company.
To re-elect as a Director Mr A A Laing who retires by rotation.
To re-elect as a Director Sir Malcolm Rifkind who retires by rotation.
To re-elect as a Director Mr C G H Weaver who retires by rotation.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that one third of the Directors must retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and that no Director may serve beyond three years without offering themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
In accordance with these provisions, Messrs Laing and Weaver and Sir Malcolm Rifkind offer themselves for re-election.
Biographies of each of these directors are contained on page 19.
The Chairman confirms that following the completion of the annual performance evaluation and appraisal exercise, the performance of the three Directors seeking re-election continues to be effective and that these Directors demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Their re-election is therefore recommended.
To approve the Remuneration Report.
The Companies Act 1985 requires the Directors to prepare an annual report detailing the remuneration of the Directors and the Companys remuneration policy and to seek shareholder approval to its contents.
The remuneration report is contained on pages 24 to 31.
To consider the following resolution which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution: 8.
That the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purpose of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers conferred pursuant to Article 12.2.
1 of the Companys Articles of Association up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 21,174,508 section 80 amount representing 33% of the present issued share capital provided that this authority shall expire unless previously renewed varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2008 the prescribed period.
This resolution seeks to renew the authority conferred on the Directors at last years Annual General Meeting to allot the authorised but unissued share capital up to a maximum nominal amount of 21,174,508, which represents approximately 33% of the Companys issued share capital at 11 December 2006.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting.
The Directors have no present intention to issue further ordinary shares in the Company.
As at 11 December 2006, the Company did not hold any treasury shares in the Company.
The Act now provides that ordinary shares of the Company which are repurchased by the Company in accordance with shareholder authority under the Act, can be held in treasury shares for up to six months.
Treasury shares can then inter alia be used to satisfy the exercise of options under employee share schemes or be sold in the market therefore ensuring efficient and effective management of share capital.
To consider the following resolutions which will be proposed as special resolutions: 9.
That each of Articles 87.1 and 87.2 of the Companys Articles of Association be amended by replacing the gure 400,000 with 500,000 where it so appears.
This resolution seeks to amend the Companys Articles of Association by increasing the amount that the Company is permitted to pay in the form of Directors fees to the Non Executive Directors.
The Company is currently permitted to pay a maximum of 400,000 increasing annually in line with the Retail Price Index.
The Board believes that this gure should be increased to 500,000, also to increase annually in line with the Retail Prices Index to ensure that the Company can continue to pay fees that are competitive and fully reect the time commitment and the responsibilities of the Non Executive Directors and to ensure that the Company is not unduly restricted in the event that it seeks to appoint additional Non Executive Directors in future.
The full terms of the proposed amended Articles of Association will be available for inspection from the date of this document until the close of the Annual General Meeting in the ofces of the Company at 10 Queens Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG and One Bow Churchyard, London EC4M 9HH and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before and during the Meeting.
Aber Aberdeen deen Asset Manag Asset Management PLC ement PLC Ann Annual R ual Repor eport and t and A Accounts 2006 ccounts 2006 101 101 Notice of Meeting continued 10.
That the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers conferred pursuant to Article 12.2.
2 of the Companys Articles of Association and pursuant to Section 94 2 to Section 94 3A of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 3,134,043 such authority to expire at the conclusion of the prescribed period the section 89 amount.
This resolution seeks to renew the authority conferred on the Directors at last years Annual General Meeting to issue equity securities of the Company for cash other than on a pre-emptive basis as provided by the Act.
Other than in connection with a rights or scrip dividend or other similar issue, the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to issues of ordinary shares and or sales of treasury shares representing an aggregate nominal value of 3,134,043, which in turn represents 5% of the issued ordinary share capital at 11 December 2006.
That the Company is, pursuant to Section 166 of the Act, hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of ordinary shares provided that:- 1 the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 31,340,433 representing 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: 2 the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10 pence per ordinary share: 3 the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be the higher of not more than i 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share on the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which any such purchase is made and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current bid on the London Stock Exchange: 4 the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which contract to purchase will be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make the purchase of the ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract and: 5 the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2008.
This resolution, renews the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting and gives the Company authority to buy back its own ordinary shares as permitted by the Act.
The authority limits the number of ordinary shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 31,340,433, representing 5% of the issued share capital at 11 December 2006 and sets the minimum and maximum prices that can be paid.
This authority would only be exercised if the Directors believed that to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the interests of the shareholders generally.
At present, the Directors have no current intention of utilising this authority.
By order of the Board Scott E Massie Secretary 10 Queens Terrace Aberdeen AB10 1YG 11 December 2006 Notes: 1.
A Member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
A Form of Proxy, in order to be valid, must be delivered to Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZR not later than 12.00 noon on 17 January 2007.
The following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered ofce on any weekday except Saturdays and public holidays, and at the place of the meeting for a period of fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting: i The Register of Directors Interests and those of their families in the share capital of the Company: ii Copies of all contracts of service and letters of appointment of Directors of the Company.
Only those Members entered on the Companys Register of Members not later than 6.00 pm on 17 January 2007 or, if the meeting is adjourned, shareholders entered on the Companys Register of Members not later than 48 hours before the time xed for the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
102 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
