DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The Directors are required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the net return for that period.
The Directors are also required to prepare a Directors Remuneration Report.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding  and other irregularities.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and appropriate accounting policies have been used and consistently applied.
Reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been used in the preparation of the financial statements and applicable UK accounting standards have been followed.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ABERFORTH SMALLER COMPANIES TRUST PLC We have audited the financial statements of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc for the year ended 31 December 2006, which comprise the Income Statement, Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 18.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Directors Responsibility Statement.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we required for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
