NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  be held at 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh on 1 March 2007 at 6.15 pm for the following purposes: To consider and, if thought t, pass the following Ordinary Resolutions: 1.
That the Report and Accounts for the year to 31 December 2006 be adopted.
That the payment of the final dividend of 9.15p per Ordinary Share be approved.
That Mr D R Shaw be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr H N Buchan be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr M L A Chiappelli be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr J E G Cran be re-elected as a Director.
That Prof P R Marsh be re-elected as a Director.
That Prof W S Nimmo be re-elected as a Director.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2006 be approved.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as Auditors and that the Directors be authorised to determine their remuneration.
To consider and, if thought t, pass the following Special Resolution: 11.
That pursuant to and in accordance with its Articles of Association, the Company be and it is hereby authorised in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company Shares, provided that: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company on the date on which this resolution is passed: b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 1p being the nominal value of a Share: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be 5% above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 31 July 2008 or, if earlier, at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2008, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under such authority which will or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
By Order of the Board Aberforth Partners LLP, Secretaries 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7NS 22 January 2007 The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 7 March 2007 to Shareholders on the Register at 9 February 2007.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
Such a proxy need not also be a member of the Company.
com and follow the instructions on screen.
You will require your investor code.
CREST users should note they can lodge their proxy votes for the meeting through the CREST proxy voting system.
For further instructions users should refer to the CREST User Manual.
Any CREST sponsored members should contact their CREST sponsor.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
The Directors letter of appointment will be available for inspection for 15 minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting.
