5 8 f I N A N C I A L S tAt e M e N t S IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosure Notes to the financial statements applicable for years commencing on or after 1 January 2007: and 1.
General information and basis of preparation Proposed amendment to IAS 1 Capital Admiral Group plc is a Company incorporated disclosures in England and Wales.
Its registered office is at Capital Tower, Greyfriars Road, Cardiff CF10 The application of IFRS 7 and the proposed 3AZ and its shares are listed on the London amendment to IAS 1 in the current year Stock Exchange.
would not have affected the balance sheet or the income statement as the standards are The financial statements comprise the concerned only with disclosure.
The Group results and balances of the Company and its plans to adopt these in 2007. subsidiaries together referred to as the Group for the two years ended 31 December 2005 The accounting policies set out below and 2006.
The financial statements of the have, unless otherwise stated, been applied Companys subsidiaries are consolidated in consistently to all periods presented in these the Group financial statements.
The Company Group financial statements.
controls 100% of the voting share capital of all its subsidiaries.
The Parent Company financial The financial statements are prepared on the statements present information about the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation Company as a separate entity and not about of financial assets classified as at fair value its Group.
In accordance with International through profit or loss.
Accounting Standard IAS 24, transactions or balances between Group companies that Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the have been eliminated on consolidation are not Group.
Control exists when the Group has reported as related party transactions.
the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity The consolidated financial statements have so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In been prepared and approved by the Directors assessing control, potential voting rights that in accordance with International Financial are currently exercisable or convertible are Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by taken into account.
The financial statements of the European Union EU.
The Company has subsidiaries are included in the consolidated elected to prepare its Parent Company financial financial statements from the date that control statements in accordance with UK Generally commences until the date that control ceases.
The preparation of financial statements Other than those listed below, the Group has in conformity with adopted IFRS requires applied all adopted IFRS and interpretations management to make judgements, estimates adopted by the EU at 31 December 2006, and assumptions that affect the application of including all amendments to extant standards policies and reported amounts of assets and that are not effective until later accounting liabilities, income and expenses.
and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors The following IFRS adopted by the EU were that are believed to be reasonable under the available for early adoption but have not circumstances, the results of which form the been applied by the Group in these financial basis of making the judgements about carrying statements: values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
