A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 5 9 The claims provisions are subject to The estimates and underlying assumptions independent review by the Groups actuarial are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is reviewed if this revision affects only that year, or in the year 3.
Significant accounting policies of the revision and future years if the revision a Revenue recognition affects both current and future years.
Premiums, ancillary income and profit commission: 2.
Significant estimates Estimation techniques used in calculation of Premiums relating to insurance contracts are claims provisions: recognised as revenue proportionally over the Estimation techniques are used in the period of cover.
calculation of the provisions for claims outstanding, which represents a projection of Income earned on the sale of ancillary the ultimate cost of settling claims that have products and income from policies paid occurred prior to the balance sheet date and by instalments is credited to the income remain unsettled at the balance sheet date.
statement over the period matching the Groups obligations to provide services.
Where The key area where these techniques are used the Group has no remaining contractual relates to the ultimate cost of reported claims.
obligations, the income is recognised A secondary area relates to the emergence of immediately.
An allowance is made for claims that occurred prior to the balance sheet expected cancellations where the customer date, but had not been reported at that date.
may be entitled to a refund of ancillary amounts charged.
The estimates of the ultimate cost of reported claims are based on the setting of claim Under some of the co-insurance and provisions on a case-by-case basis, for all but reinsurance contracts under which motor the simplest of claims.
premiums are shared or ceded, profit commission may be earned on a particular The sum of these provisions are compared year of account, which is usually subject to with projected ultimate costs using a variety performance criteria such as loss ratios and of different projection techniques including expense ratios.
The commission is dependent incurred and paid chain ladder and an average on the ultimate outcome of any year, with cost of claim approach to allow an actuarial income being recognised based on loss and assessment of their likely accuracy and to expense ratios used in the preparation of the include allowance for unreported claims.
The most significant sensitivity in the use of Income is allocated to profit commission the projection techniques arises from any in the income statement when the right to future step change in claims costs, which consideration is achieved, and is capable of would cause future claim cost inflation to reliable measurement.
This is most likely to arise from a change in the regulatory Revenue from Gladiator and Confused.
com: or judicial regime that leads to an increase Commission from these activities is credited to in awards or legal costs for bodily injury income on the sale of the underlying insurance claims that is significantly above or below the policy.
Financial statements 48 - 97 6 0 f I N A N C I A L S tAt e M e N t S Investment income: Translation differences on non-monetary items, Investment income from financial assets such as equities held at fair value through comprises interest income and net gains both profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair realised and unrealised on financial assets value gain or loss.
Translation differences on classified as fair value through profit and loss.
non-monetary items are included in the fair value reserve in equity.
b Segment reporting The Groups primary format for segment Translation of financial statements of reporting is business segments.
There is no foreign branches secondary segment.
A business segment is The financial statements of foreign branches defined as a group of assets and operations whose functional currency is not pounds engaged in providing products and services sterling are translated into the Group that are subject to risks and returns that are presentation currency sterling as follows: different from other business segments.
i Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet For the Group, the risks and returns of its presented are translated at the closing rate insurance broking activities, namely Gladiator at the date of that balance sheet: Commercial and Confused.
com, are clearly distinguishable from its motor insurance ii Income and expenses for each income segment.
This is reflected in the Groups statement are translated at average management and organisation structure and exchange rates unless this average is not a internal financial reporting systems.
reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the c Foreign currency translation transaction dates, in which case income and Functional and presentation currency: expenses are translated at the date of the Items included in the financial statements transaction : and of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic iii All resulting exchange differences are environment in which the entity operates recognised as a separate component of the functional currency.
financial statements are presented in thousands of pounds sterling, which is the Groups presentation currency.
d Insurance contracts and reinsurance assets Premium: Transactions and balances: The proportion of premium receivable on Foreign currency transactions are translated in-force policies relating to unexpired risks is into the functional currency using the exchange reported in insurance contract liabilities and rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
reinsurance assets as the unearned premium Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting provision gross and reinsurers share from the settlement of such transactions, and respectively.
from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated Claims: in foreign currencies are recognised in the Claims and claims handling expenses are income statement.
charged as incurred, based on the estimated direct and indirect costs of settling all liabilities arising on events occurring up to the balance sheet date.
A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 6 1 The provision for claims outstanding comprises e Intangible assets provisions for the estimated cost of settling all Goodwill: claims incurred but unpaid at the balance sheet All business combinations are accounted for date, whether reported or not.
Anticipated using the purchase method.
Goodwill has been reinsurance recoveries are disclosed separately recognised in acquisitions of subsidiaries, and as assets.
represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net Whilst the Directors consider that the identifiable assets acquired.
gross provisions for claims and the related reinsurance recoveries are fairly stated on the The classification and accounting treatment of basis of the information currently available to acquisitions occurring before 1 January 2004 them, the ultimate liability will vary as a result have not been reconsidered in preparing the of subsequent information and events and may Groups opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January result in significant adjustments to the amounts 2004 due to the exemption available in IFRS 1 provided.
Adjustments to the amounts of claims In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January provisions established in prior years are 2004, goodwill is included at the transition reflected in the income statement for the date on the basis of its deemed cost, which period in which the adjustments are made and represents the amount recorded under UK disclosed separately if material.
The methods GAAP, which was tested for impairment at the used, and the estimates made, are reviewed transition date.
On transition, amortisation of regularly.
goodwill has ceased as required by IFRS 1.
Provision for unexpired risks is made where Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated necessary for the estimated amount required impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to over and above unearned premiums to meet cash generating units CGUs according to future claims and related expenses.
business segment and is reviewed annually for impairment.
Reinsurance assets: Contracts entered into by the Group The Goodwill held on the balance sheet at with reinsurers under which the Group is 31 December 2006 is allocated solely to the compensated for losses on the insurance private motor insurance segment.
contracts issued by the Group are classified as reinsurance contracts.
A contract is only Impairment of goodwill: accounted for as an insurance or reinsurance The annual impairment review involves contract where there is significant insurance comparing the carrying amount to the risk transfer between the insured and the estimated recoverable amount by allocating insurer.
the goodwill to CGUs and recognising an impairment loss if the recoverable amount The benefits to which the Group is entitled under is lower.
Impairment losses are recognised these contracts are held as reinsurance assets.
through the income statement and are not subsequently reversed.
The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment on a regular basis, and in detail every The recoverable amount is the greater of the net six months.
If there is objective evidence that the realisable value and the value in use of the CGU.
asset is impaired, then the carrying value will be written down to its recoverable amount.
The value in use calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three year period.
Cash flows beyond this period are considered, but not included in the calculation.
Financial statements 48 - 97 6 2 f I N A N C I A L S tAt e M e N t S The key assumptions used in the value in use Impairment of property, plant and equipment: calculations are those regarding growth rates In the case of property, plant and equipment, and expected changes in pricing and expenses carrying values are reviewed at each balance incurred during the period.
Management sheet date to determine whether there are estimates growth rates and changes in pricing any indications of impairment.
If any such based on past practices and expected future indications exist, the assets recoverable changes in the market.
amount is estimated and compared to the carrying value.
The carrying value is the higher Deferred acquisition costs: of the net realisable value and the assets Acquisition costs comprise all direct and value in use.
Impairment losses are recognised indirect costs arising from the conclusion of through the income statement.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the proportion of acquisition costs g Leased assets incurred that corresponds to the unearned The rental costs relating to assets held under premiums provision at the balance sheet date.
operating leases are charged to the income This balance is held as an intangible asset.
It statement on a straight-line basis over the life is amortised over the term of the contract as of the lease.
Leases under the terms of which the Group Software: assumes substantially all of the risks and Purchased software is recognised as an rewards of ownership are classed as finance intangible asset and amortised over its leases.
Assets acquired under finance leases are expected useful life generally between two included in property, plant and equipment at and four years.
The carrying value is reviewed fair value on acquisition and are depreciated in every six months for evidence of impairment, the same manner as equivalent owned assets.
with the value being written down if any Finance lease and hire purchase obligations impairment exists.
Impairment may be reversed are included in creditors, and the finance costs if conditions subsequently improve.
are spread over the periods of the agreements based on the net amount outstanding.
f Property, plant and equipment and depreciation h Financial assets investments and All property, plant and equipment is stated receivables at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Financial assets are classified according to the Depreciation is calculated using the straightpurpose for which they were acquired.
The line method to write off the cost less residual Groups investments in quoted fixed income values of the assets over their useful economic and other debt securities are classified as lives.
These useful economic lives are as financial assets at fair value through profit or follows: loss at inception.
Financial assets classified as fair value through Motor vehicles 4 years profit and loss are initially recorded at cost Fixtures, fittings and equipment 4 years which equates to fair value and subsequently Computer equipment 2 to 4 years carried at fair value based on closing bid prices on the balance sheet date, or the last Improvements to short 4 years trading day before the balance sheet date with leasehold properties changes in the fair value of these investments being recognised through the income statement.
A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 6 Trade and other receivables are stated at their Non-market conditions such as profitability historic cost discounted if material unless they targets as well as staff attrition rates are are impaired.
Impairment losses are recognised included in assumptions over the number through the income statement.
of free shares to vest under the applicable scheme.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash At each balance sheet date, the Group revises in hand, deposits held at call with banks, its assumptions on the number of shares to be and other short-term deposits with original granted with the impact of any change in the maturities of three months or less.
j Share capital Refer to note 26 for further details on share Shares are classified as equity when there is no schemes.
obligation to transfer cash or other assets.
m Taxation k Loans and borrowings Income tax on the profit or loss for the periods Interest bearing loans and borrowings presented comprises current and deferred tax.
are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to Current tax: initial recognition, interest bearing loans and Current tax is the expected tax payable on the borrowings are stated at amortised cost with taxable income for the period, using tax rates in any difference between cost and redemption effect at the balance sheet date, and includes value being recognised in the income statement any adjustment to tax payable in respect of over the life of the borrowings on an effective previous periods.
Deferred tax: l Employee benefits Deferred tax is provided in full using the Pensions: balance sheet liability method, providing for The Group contributes to a number of defined temporary differences arising between the contribution personal pension plans for its carrying amount of assets and liabilities for employees.
The contributions payable to these accounting purposes, and the amounts used for schemes are charged in the accounting period taxation purposes.
The principal temporary differences arise from Employee share schemes: depreciation of property and equipment, share The Group operates a number of equity settled scheme charges and the tax treatment of compensation schemes for its employees.
schemes commencing 1 January 2004 and after, the fair value of the employee services received A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the in exchange for the grant of free shares under extent that it is probable that future taxable the schemes is recognised as an expense, with a profits will be available against which the asset corresponding increase in equity.
The total charge expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the free shares granted excluding the impact of non-market vesting conditions.
