A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 5 9 The claims provisions are subject to The estimates and underlying assumptions independent review by the Groups actuarial are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is reviewed if this revision affects only that year, or in the year 3.
Significant accounting policies of the revision and future years if the revision a Revenue recognition affects both current and future years.
Premiums, ancillary income and profit commission: 2.
Significant estimates Estimation techniques used in calculation of Premiums relating to insurance contracts are claims provisions: recognised as revenue proportionally over the Estimation techniques are used in the period of cover.
calculation of the provisions for claims outstanding, which represents a projection of Income earned on the sale of ancillary the ultimate cost of settling claims that have products and income from policies paid occurred prior to the balance sheet date and by instalments is credited to the income remain unsettled at the balance sheet date.
statement over the period matching the Groups obligations to provide services.
Where The key area where these techniques are used the Group has no remaining contractual relates to the ultimate cost of reported claims.
obligations, the income is recognised A secondary area relates to the emergence of immediately.
An allowance is made for claims that occurred prior to the balance sheet expected cancellations where the customer date, but had not been reported at that date.
may be entitled to a refund of ancillary amounts charged.
The estimates of the ultimate cost of reported claims are based on the setting of claim Under some of the co-insurance and provisions on a case-by-case basis, for all but reinsurance contracts under which motor the simplest of claims.
premiums are shared or ceded, profit commission may be earned on a particular The sum of these provisions are compared year of account, which is usually subject to with projected ultimate costs using a variety performance criteria such as loss ratios and of different projection techniques including expense ratios.
The commission is dependent incurred and paid chain ladder and an average on the ultimate outcome of any year, with cost of claim approach to allow an actuarial income being recognised based on loss and assessment of their likely accuracy and to expense ratios used in the preparation of the include allowance for unreported claims.
The most significant sensitivity in the use of Income is allocated to profit commission the projection techniques arises from any in the income statement when the right to future step change in claims costs, which consideration is achieved, and is capable of would cause future claim cost inflation to reliable measurement.
This is most likely to arise from a change in the regulatory Revenue from Gladiator and Confused.
com: or judicial regime that leads to an increase Commission from these activities is credited to in awards or legal costs for bodily injury income on the sale of the underlying insurance claims that is significantly above or below the policy.
