Principal accounting policies 71 BASIS OF PREPARATION SEGMENT REPORTING The Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 have The Groups primary format for segment reporting is business been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting segments and the secondary format is geographical segments.
Standards IFRSs, and International Financial Reporting Interpretations This reflects the fact that the risks and returns of the Groups Committee IFRIC interpretations.
These include standards and operations are primarily based on its business activities rather interpretations adopted by the EU.
In addition, the Financial than the geographical location of the Groups operations.
Statements have been prepared in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL IFRS.
The Financial Statements have been prepared primarily using In the event of a business combination, fair values are attributed to historical cost principles except that, as disclosed in the accounting the net assets acquired.
Goodwill, which represents the difference policies below, certain items, including derivatives, are measured between the purchase consideration and the fair value of the net at fair value.
assets acquired, is capitalised and subject to an impairment review at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with circumstances indicate that the goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP requires is treated as an asset of the relevant entity to which it relates, management to make judgments and assumptions that affect including foreign entities.
Accordingly, it is re-translated into pounds the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of Sterling at the closing rate of exchange at each balance sheet date.
contingencies at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT EXCLUDING Actual results could differ from these estimates.
BG Group believes DECOMMISSIONING ASSETS that the accounting policies associated with exploration expenditure, All property, plant and equipment is carried at depreciated historical depreciation, decommissioning, impairments, financial instruments cost.
Additions represent new, or replacements of specific components including commodity contracts and revenue recognition are the of, property, plant and equipment.
critical policies where changes in estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on the Financial Statements.
Further Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and discussion on these policies, estimates and judgments can be equipment including government grants are included in creditors found in the Financial review, pages 27 to 36, note 6, page 91, as deferred income and credited to the income statement over note 11, page 94 and note 21, page 102. the life of the assets.
Finance costs associated with borrowings used to finance major capital projects are capitalised up to the As permitted by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial point of commissioning.
Reporting Standards, the comparative information for the years ended prior to 1 January 2005 has not been prepared in accordance DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The financial information provided in respect Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant and of financial instruments for those years is based on BG Groups equipment, except exploration and production assets, is depreciated accounting policy under UK GAAP.
on a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write off the historical The presentation adopted by the Group for its results under IFRS cost less residual value of individual assets over their estimated is explained in note 2, page 80. useful economic lives.
The depreciation periods for the principal categories of assets are as follows: BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years The Financial Statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and incorporate the Mains, services and meters up to 60 years results of its share of jointly controlled entities and associates using Plant and machinery 5 to 30 years the equity method of accounting.
Consistent accounting policies Motor vehicles and office equipment up to 10 years have been used to prepare the consolidated Financial Statements.
Exploration and production assets are depreciated from the Most of BG Groups Exploration and Production activity is conducted commencement of production in the fields concerned, using the through jointly controlled operations.
BG Group accounts for its unit of production method based on the proved developed reserves own share of the assets, liabilities and cash flows associated with of those fields, except that a basis of total proved reserves is used these jointly controlled operations, using the proportional for acquired interests and for facilities.
Changes in these estimates consolidation method.
The results of undertakings acquired or disposed of are consolidated Asset lives are kept under review and complete asset life reviews are from or to the date when control passes to or from the Company.
Residual values are reassessed annually.
For the Company Financial Statements only, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for Intangible assets in respect of contractual rights are recognised at impairment.
They are amortised on a straight-line basis over the term of the related contracts.
PRESENTATION OF RESULTS The Group presents its results in the income statement to IMPAIRMENT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS separately identify the contribution of disposals, certain Any impairment of non-current assets is calculated as the difference re-measurements and impairments in order to provide readers with between the carrying values of cash generating units including a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating associated goodwill and their recoverable amount, being the higher performance of the Groups ongoing business, see presentation of of the estimated value in use or fair value less costs to sell at the non-GAAP measures, page 152, note 2, page 80 and note 10, page 94. date the impairment loss is recognised.
Value in use represents the net present value of expected future cash flows discounted on a pre-tax basis.
72 Principal accounting policies continued on the provision is included in the income statement within finance ASSETS HELD FOR SALE When an asset or disposal groups carrying value will be recovered costs.
Any changes to estimated costs or discount rates are dealt with prospectively.
principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in FOREIGN CURRENCIES respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into pounds Sterling the functional INVENTORIES currency of the Company and the presentation currency of the Group at closing rates of exchange.
Trading results of overseas Inventories, including inventories of gas and oil held for sale in the ordinary course of business, are stated at weighted average subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates historical cost less provision for deterioration and obsolescence or, are translated into pounds Sterling at average rates of exchange.
if lower, net realisable value.
Differences resulting from the retranslation of the opening net assets and the results for the year are taken to reserves.
Any differences arising from 1 January 2003, the date of transition to REVENUE RECOGNITION IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
Revenue associated with exploration and production sales of crude oil and petroleum products including natural gas is recorded when Exchange differences on monetary assets and liabilities are taken to title passes to the customer.
Revenue from the production of the income statement, with the exception of exchange differences natural gas and oil in which the Group has an interest with other on monetary items that form part of a net investment in a foreign producers is recognised based on the Groups working interest and operation.
These differences are taken to reserves until the related the terms of the relevant production sharing contracts entitlement net investment is disposed of.
All other exchange movements are method.
Differences between production sold and the Groups dealt with through the income statement.
share of production are not significant.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Sales of liquefied natural gas LNG and associated products are recognised when title passes to the customer as the product passes Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits with a the delivery point at the loading port or the tailgate of the maturity of three months or less and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
LNG shipping revenue is recognised over the period of the relevant contract.
DEFERRED TAX Revenue from gas transmission and distribution activities is Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on recognised in the same period in which the related volumes are temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and delivered to the customer.
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Financial Statements.
Power generation revenues are recognised based on the availability Currently enacted tax rates are used in the determination of status of the power station to produce at a given point in time.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the Revenue associated with the costs of actual production is extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available, recognised whenever power is generated.
against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
All other revenue is recognised when title passes to the customer.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference BG Group uses the successful efforts method of accounting for will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Exploration expenditure, including licence acquisition costs, is capitalised as an intangible asset when incurred and certain expenditure, such as geological and geophysical LEASES exploration costs, is expensed.
A review of each licence or field is Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in carried out, at least annually, to ascertain whether proved reserves property, plant and equipment at the lower of fair value and the have been discovered.
When proved reserves are determined, the present value of the minimum lease payments as determined at the relevant expenditure, including licence acquisition costs, is inception of the lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciated on of finance charges in respect of future periods, are determined at the a unit of production basis.
Expenditure deemed to be unsuccessful inception of the lease and included within borrowings.
The interest is written off to the income statement.
Exploration expenditure is element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest during the lease term to reflect the constant rate of interest on the that its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
For the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
purposes of impairment testing, exploration and production assets The Group has certain long-term arrangements under which it has may be aggregated into appropriate cash generating units based on acquired all of the capacity of certain property, plant and equipment.
considerations including geographical location, the use of common In circumstances where it is considered that the Group has the facilities and marketing arrangements.
majority of the risks and rewards of ownership of the plant, the arrangement is considered to contain a finance lease.
DECOMMISSIONING COSTS Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income Where a legal or constructive obligation has been incurred, provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost of statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
decommissioning at the end of the producing lives of fields.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FROM 1 JANUARY 2005 When this provision gives access to future economic benefits, an Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised and asset is recognised and then subsequently depreciated in line with subsequently measured at fair value.
the life of the underlying producing field, otherwise the costs are charged to the income statement.
The unwinding of the discount 73 Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Groups treasury designated as cash flow hedges of underlying commodity operations include interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, cross price exposures, certain gains and losses attributable to these currency interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, and forward instruments are deferred in equity and recognised in the income exchange contracts.
statement when the underlying hedged transaction crystallises.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges All other commodity contracts within the scope of IAS 39 in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Gains and losses are measured at fair value with gains and losses taken to arising from the re-measurement of these financial instruments are the income statement.
either recognised in the income statement or deferred in equity Gas contracts and related derivative instruments associated with depending on the type of hedging relationship.
When a hedging the physical purchase and re-sale of third-party gas are presented instrument is sold or expires, any cumulative gain or loss previously on a net basis within other operating income.
recognised in equity remains in equity until the hedged transaction is recognised in the income statement.
Movements in the fair value COMMODITY INSTRUMENTS TO 31 DECEMBER 2004 of derivative financial instruments not included in hedging The Group uses various commodity based derivative instruments to relationships are recognised in the income statement.
Loans held manage some of the risks arising from fluctuations in commodity by the Group are initially measured at fair value and subsequently prices.
Such contracts include physicaland cash-settled forwards, carried at amortised cost except where they form the underlying futures, swaps and options.
Under specified conditions, certain transaction in an effective fair value hedge relationship when the gains and losses attributable to cash-settled derivative contracts carrying value is adjusted to reflect fair value movements associated designated as hedging particular gas price exposures are deferred with the hedged risks.
Such adjustments are reported in the income and recognised in the income statement when the underlying statement.
Other financial instruments such as receivable balances hedged transaction crystallises.
All other gains and losses relating are measured at amortised cost less impairments.
Liabilities to net-settled commodity derivatives are taken to the income associated with financial guarantee contracts are initially measured statement on the maturity or termination of the instrument.
at fair value and re-measured at each balance sheet date.
Upstream gas trading contracts and related derivative instruments that are settled by the physical purchase and re-sale of third-party FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS TO 31 DECEMBER 2004 gas are presented on a net basis within E&Ps costs.
Derivatives used for hedging are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Termination payments made or received in respect of derivatives are PENSIONS spread over the shorter of the life of the original instrument or the life The amount recognised on the balance sheet in respect of liabilities of the underlying exposure in cases where the underlying exposure for defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans continues to exist.
Where the underlying exposure ceases to exist, represents the present value of the obligations offset by the any termination payments are taken to the income statement.
fair value of plan assets and excluding actuarial gains and losses Interest differentials on derivative instruments are recognised not recognised.
by adjusting the net interest charge.
Premiums or discounts on The cost of providing retirement pensions and related benefits is derivative instruments are amortised over the shorter of the life charged to the income statement over the periods benefiting from of the instrument or the underlying exposure.
Currency swap the employees services.
Current service costs are reflected in agreements and forward exchange contracts are retranslated operating profit and financing costs are reflected in finance costs at the rates ruling in the agreements and contracts.
Resulting in the period in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses which gains or losses are offset against foreign exchange gains or losses exceed the greater of 10% of plan assets or plan obligations are on the related borrowings or, where the instrument is used to spread over the average remaining service lives of the employees hedge a committed future transaction, are deferred until the participating in the plan and are reflected in operating profit.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS COMMODITY INSTRUMENTS FROM 1 JANUARY 2005 The cost of providing share-based payments to employees is Within the ordinary course of business the Group routinely enters charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the into sale and purchase transactions for commodities.
The majority related share options or share allocations.
The cost is based on the of these transactions take the form of contracts that were entered fair value of the options or shares allocated and the number of into and continue to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery awards expected to vest.
The fair value of each option or share is of the commodity in accordance with the Groups expected sale, determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or purchase or usage requirements.
Such contracts are not within the a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of award.
Market related performance conditions are reflected in the fair Certain long-term gas sales contracts operating in the UK gas value of the share.
Non market related performance conditions market have terms within the contract which constitute written are allowed for using a separate assumption about the number options, and accordingly they fall within the scope of IAS 39.
In of awards expected to vest: the final charge made reflects the addition, commodity instruments are used to manage certain price number actually vesting.
exposures in respect of optimising the timing of gas sales associated with contracted storage and pipeline capacity.
These contracts are RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE recognised on the balance sheet at fair value with movements in All research and advertising expenditure is written off as incurred.
fair value recognised in the income statement, see Presentation of Development expenditure is written off as incurred unless it meets Results above, Presentation of non-GAAP measures, page 152, note 2, the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Where page 80, and note 10, page 94. the recognition criteria are met, intangible assets are capitalised The Group uses various commodity based derivative instruments to and amortised over their useful economic lives.
manage some of the risks arising from fluctuations in commodity prices.
Such contracts include physical and net settled forwards, futures, swaps and options.
Where these derivatives have been
