SHAREHOLDER I SHAREHOLDER IN NFORMA FORMAT TION ION Additional shareholder information 139 On 16 October 2000, the Companys shareholders approved the THIS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS INCORPORATES demerger of certain businesses principally Transco to Lattice Group THE US FORM 20-F plc, effective on 23 October 2000.
This demerger created a new BG Group plc is the legal and commercial name of the SEC registrant.
listed company, Lattice Group plc which has since merged with BG Group plc is a public limited company listed on the London and National Grid plc and is now called National Grid plc.
The principal New York Stock Exchanges and registered in England.
This is the business demerged to Lattice Group was the gas transportation Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006. business carried out by Transco, which owned, operated and It complies with UK regulations and includes information for the developed the substantial majority of the gas transportation system Groups annual report on Form 20-F see cross-reference to Form 20-F, and all the LNG storage facilities in Great Britain at the time.
page 150 to meet US regulations.
The US Report of Registered Following demerger, the Company continued to own BG Energy Public Accounting Firm is included separately in the Groups Form Holdings Limited and its subsidiary undertakings consolidated with 20-F filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
An its share of joint ventures and associated undertakings, principally Annual Review including the Summary Financial Statement for the comprising the activities of E&P, LNG and the development, year ended 31 December 2006 has been issued to all shareholders management and supply of existing and newly emerging gas who have not elected to receive this Annual Report and Accounts.
The special rights redeemable preference share in the Company held by the UK Secretary of State for Trade HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMPANY and Industry was redeemed.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales on 30 December 1998 under the Companies Act 1985.
On 28 November 2001, BG Groups Storage segment was sold to Dynegy Inc. of the USA for a consideration of 421m.
The UK gas industry was nationalised in 1948 and the British Gas Corporation was established in 1973.
In April 1986, British Gas was The Groups principal activities are now focused on the E&P, LNG, incorporated as a public limited company and in December 1986 Transmission and Distribution T&D and Power business segments.
the UK Government sold substantially all its shareholdings in In E&P ongoing exploration activity and investment in the existing British Gas to the public.
asset-base has been supplemented by the acquisition of new assets such as the Panna Mukta and Tapti fields in India in February 2002.
Investment in the Exploration and Production E&P business resulted in expansions in the UK and overseas, including In LNG, there have been expansions at Atlantic LNG and the developments in Trinidad and Tobago, Thailand, Tunisia, Egypt and construction of new liquefaction facilities at Egyptian LNG in Egypt.
Investment in the Liquefied Natural The acquisition of capacity rights at the Lake Charles and Elba Island Gas LNG business overseas also began with the start of regasification terminals in the USA, which became effective from construction work in Trinidad and Tobago at Atlantic LNG in 1996.
2002 and 2003 respectively, secured access to a key gas market.
The Group also operates a shipping fleet to service its LNG business and With effect from 17 February 1997, Centrica plc demerged from has long-term contracts to purchase LNG from Egypt, Equatorial BG plc.
Following the Centrica demerger, BG plc retained the gas Guinea and Nigeria.
transportation and storage businesses, the majority of the exploration and production business, the international downstream In T&D, the Group develops markets for natural gas and provides business, the research and technology business and the property them with supplies from its and others reserves.
division of British Gas plc.
In connection with the Centrica demerger, In Power, the Group develops, owns and operates gas-fired power British Gas plcs gas sales, services and retail businesses, together generation plants in the UK and overseas, including Italy, Malaysia, with the gas production business of the North and South the Philippines and, with effect from 2006, in the USA.
Morecambe gas fields and its direct interest in Accord Energy Limited, were transferred to Centrica plc.
Investment in the gas value-chain continued and in April 1999 a controlling share in the Brazilian gas distribution business Companhia fide Gas fide So Paulo was acquired.
With effect from 1 May 1999, BG plc combined its exploration and production and international downstream businesses which principally engaged in gas and oil exploration and production and the integrated development and supply of gas markets.
With effect from 13 December 1999, the Group was restructured so that the Company, a newly incorporated company, became the new parent company of the Group.
The Company held the gas transportation business carried out by Transco plc Transco business in a separate sub-group, including BG Transco plc now called National Grid Gas plc, ring-fenced for regulatory purposes, from the sub-group containing the other Group businesses.
The restructuring was accompanied by a refinancing under which BG Transco Holdings plc now called National Grid Gas Holdings plc issued around 1.5bn of bonds which were transferred together with new shares in the Company to shareholders in exchange for their existing shares in BG plc now called National Grid Gas plc.
The UK Secretary of State for Trade and Industry held a special rights redeemable preference share in the Company.
140 Additional shareholder information continued LISTING AND PRICE HISTORY The principal trading market for the Companys ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange.
American Depositary Shares ADSs, each representing five ordinary shares and evidenced by ADRs, have been issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank as depositary and are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The table below sets out, for the periods indicated, the reported high and low quoted prices for the Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange and the high and low quoted prices for the shares in the form of ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange.
Past performance of the Companys ordinary shares cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
So far as the Company is aware, Number 3690065. other than as set out in the Directors report Substantial The Memorandum of the Company provides that the Company has Shareholders, see page 57, no person is the beneficial owner of 5% or general commercial objects including to act as a holding company more of the Companys ordinary shares.
or an investment holding company and to carry on the business As at 26 March 2007, 18 223 973 ADSs equivalent to 91 119 865 of transporting, manufacturing, processing, storing and dealing ordinary shares or approximately 2.68% of the total outstanding in different forms of energy including natural gases, petroleum ordinary shares were outstanding and held of record by 220 and electricity.
registered holders in the USA.
The Company is aware that many The Articles of Association Articles of the Company and applicable ADSs are held of record by brokers and other nominees and, English law contain, among others, provisions to the following effect: accordingly, the above numbers are not necessarily representative of the actual number of persons who are beneficial holders of ADSs Directors or the number of ADSs beneficially held by such persons.
General As at 26 March 2007, there were about 772 396 holders of record of Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of the Company, BG Group plc ordinary shares.
Of these holders, around 2 522 there must be at least four Directors.
A Director need not be a had registered addresses in the USA and held a total of some shareholder, but a Director who is not a shareholder can still attend 174 692 BG Group plc ordinary shares, approximately 0.03% of the and speak at shareholders meetings.
In addition, certain accounts At each Annual General Meeting AGM, any Director who was of record with registered addresses other than in the USA hold elected or last re-elected a Director at or before the AGM held in BG Group plc ordinary shares, in whole or in part, beneficially for the third calendar year before the current year shall automatically US persons.
A retiring Director is eligible for re-election by As far as is known to the Company, it is not directly or indirectly the shareholders.
No maximum age limit for Directors applies.
owned or controlled by another company or by any government or any other natural or legal person, and there are no arrangements known to the Company, the operation of which may result in a change of control.
SHAREHOLDER I SHAREHOLDER IN NFORMA FORMAT TION ION 141 There must be a quorum present at every general meeting.
Directors interests Unless otherwise provided in the Articles, a Director cannot cast provided otherwise in the Articles, a quorum is two people who are entitled to vote.
a vote on any contract, arrangement or any other kind of proposal in which he knows he has a material interest.
For this purpose, Unless a poll is demanded, a resolution that is put to the vote at interests of a person who is connected with a Director under Section a general meeting will be decided by a show of hands.
346 of the Companies Act 1985 are added to the interests of the Director himself.
Interests purely as a result of an interest in the Transfer of shares Companys shares, debentures or other securities are disregarded.
Unless otherwise provided in the Articles or the terms of issue of In relation to an alternate Director, an interest of his appointor shall any shares, any shareholder may transfer any or all of his shares.
be treated as an interest of the alternate Director, in addition to any However, the Directors can refuse to register a transfer a in interest which the alternate Director has in his own right.
A Director certificated form, if such shares are not fully paid up or the evidence may not be included in the quorum of a meeting in relation to any of entitlement to such shares is missing, b if it is in respect of more resolution on which he is not allowed to vote.
than one class of share, c if it is in favour of more than four persons jointly, or d if it is not properly stamped where required.
However, if any of those shares have been admitted to the Official List of the 3.
Borrowing powers London Stock Exchange, the Directors cannot refuse to register a So far as the relevant English law allows, the Directors can exercise transfer if this would stop dealings in the shares from taking place all the powers of the Company to a borrow money, b issue on an open and proper basis.
debentures and other securities, and c give any form of guarantee and security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or If the Directors decide not to register a transfer, they must notify of any third party.
the person to whom the shares were to be transferred within two months.
The Directors must limit the Borrowings as defined in the Articles of the Company and exercise all voting and other rights or powers The Directors can decide to suspend the registration of transfers of control exercisable by the Company in relation to its subsidiary by closing the Register, but the Register cannot be closed for more undertakings, so as to ensure that the total amount of all Borrowings than 30 days per year.
In the case of shares in uncertificated by the Group as defined in the Articles outstanding at any time form, the Register must not be closed without the consent of the will not exceed twice the Adjusted Total Capital and Reserves operator of a relevant system currently CRESTCo Limited, the as defined in the Articles at such time.
This limit may be exceeded operator of a relevant system under the UK CREST Regulations.
if the Companys consent has been given in advance by an ordinary resolution passed at a general meeting.
Share capital The Companys authorised share capital is 500 000 001, consisting 4.
Director indemnity of 5 000 000 010 ordinary shares of 10p each.
So far as the relevant English law and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority allow, every Director, Company Secretary or other Shareholders rights officer of the Company shall be indemnified by the Company out of 1.
Voting rights its own funds against a liability incurred by or attaching to him in When a shareholder is entitled to attend a general meeting and vote, connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty, or breach of he has only one vote on a show of hands.
A proxy cannot vote on a trust by him in relation to the Company or any associated company show of hands.
Where there is a poll, subject to any special rights or other than i any liability to the Company or any associated restrictions attaching to any class of shares, a shareholder who is company and ii any liability of the kind referred to in Sections entitled to be present and to vote has one vote for every share that 309B 3 or 4 of the Companies Act 1985: and b any other liability he holds.
incurred by or attaching to him in the actual or purported exercise of his powers and or otherwise in relation to or in connection with To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the notice his duties, powers or office.
Such indemnity shall extend to all costs, of the meeting can give a time by which people must be entered charges, losses and expenses and liabilities incurred by the Director.
on the Register which must not be more than 48 hours before the meeting.
Unless provided otherwise in the Articles, the only people who can attend or vote at general meetings are shareholders who Shareholder meetings There are two types of meetings of shareholders, AGMs and have paid the Company all calls, and all other sums, relating to the shares that are due at the time of the meeting.
The Company must hold an AGM in each calendar year, not more than 15 months from the previous AGM.
The Directors will decide when and where to hold 2.
Restrictions on shareholders rights the AGM.
Any other general meeting is known as an EGM.
If a shareholder has been properly served with a notice under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 requiring information about The Directors can decide to call an EGM at any time.
In addition, interests in shares, and has failed to supply such information within an EGM must be called by the Directors promptly in response to 14 days of the notice, then subject to the Articles and unless the a requisition by shareholders under the relevant English law.
When Directors otherwise decide the shareholder is not for so long as the an EGM is called, the Directors must decide when and where to hold default continues entitled to attend or vote at a shareholders it.
At least 21 clear days notice in writing or, where the relevant meeting or to exercise any other right in relation to a meeting as legislation permits, by electronic mail must be given for every AGM holder of any shares held by the shareholder in default.
and for any other meeting where it is proposed to pass a special resolution or to pass some other resolution of which special notice Any person who acquires shares in relation to which a default has under the Companies Act 1985 has been given to the Company.
occurred Default Shares is subject to the same restrictions unless: For every other general meeting, at least 14 clear days notice in x the transfer was an approved transfer pursuant to a takeover writing or, where the relevant legislation permits, by electronic mail or one which, to the Directors satisfaction, is a bona fide sale must be given.
to a person unconnected with the shareholder: or 142 Additional shareholder information continued x the transfer was by a shareholder who was not himself in default The Directors can recommend the shareholders to pass an ordinary in supplying the information required by the notice and a the resolution to direct all or part of a dividend to be paid by distributing transfer is of only part of his holding and b the transfer is specific assets.
The Directors must give effect to such a resolution.
accompanied by a certificate in a form satisfactory to the If a dividend has not been claimed for one year, the Directors may Directors stating that, after due and careful enquiries, the invest the dividend or use it in some other way for the benefit of the shareholder is satisfied that none of the shares included in the Company until the dividend is claimed.
Any dividend which has not transfer are Default Shares.
been claimed for 12 years may be forfeited and belong to the Where the Default Shares represent 0.25% or more of the existing Company if the Directors so decide.
shares of a class, the Directors can, in their absolute discretion, by notice to the shareholder direct that a any dividend or other Winding up money which would otherwise be payable on the Default Shares If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the authority shall be retained by the Company without any liability to pay of an extraordinary resolution and any other sanction required by interest when that dividend or money is finally paid to the relevant law, divide among the shareholders all or part of the assets shareholder and or b the shareholder will not be allowed to of the Company or transfer any part of the assets to trustees on choose to receive shares in place of dividends and or c no transfer trust for the benefit of the shareholders.
No past or present of any of the shares held by the shareholder will be registered unless shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or other one of the provisos specified above is satisfied.
property under the Articles which carries a liability.
Variation of rights Rights of foreign shareholders If the Companys share capital is split into different classes of shares, There are no limitations imposed by the relevant English law or the subject to the relevant English law and unless the Articles or rights Articles on the rights to own securities, including the rights of nonattaching to any class of shares provide otherwise, the special rights resident or foreign shareholders to hold or exercise voting rights on which are attached to any of these classes can be varied or abrogated the securities.
as provided by those rights or approved by an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of that class.
Alternatively, the holders of Notification of interest in shares at least three-quarters of the existing shares of the class by nominal Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985 requires any shareholder, value can give their consent in writing.
subject to exceptions, who acquires an interest of 3% or more or, in the case of certain interests, 10% or more in the shares to notify the Alteration of share capital Company of their interest within two business days following the The shareholders can by ordinary resolutions a increase the day on which the obligation to notify arises.
After the 3% or 10%, Companys authorised share capital, b consolidate, or consolidate as the case may be, level is exceeded, similar notification must and then divide, all or any of the Companys share capital into be made in respect of the whole percentage figure increases shares of a larger nominal amount than the existing shares, or decreases.
c cancel any shares which have not been taken, or agreed to be taken, by any person at the date of the resolution, and reduce MATERIAL CONTRACTS the amount of the Companys share capital by the amount of the No contract other than those entered into in the ordinary course of cancelled shares, and d subject to the relevant English law divide business has been entered into in the two years preceding the date some or all of the Companys shares into shares which are of of this document by the Company or its subsidiary undertakings a smaller nominal amount than is fixed in the Memorandum.
and is, or may be, material to the Company or the Group or has been entered into by the Company or its subsidiary undertakings The shareholders can, subject to the relevant English law, pass and contains obligations or entitlements which are, or may be, a special resolution to a reduce the Companys authorised share material to the Group.
capital in any way or b reduce any capital redemption reserve, share premium account or other undistributable reserve in any way.
EXCHANGE CONTROLS The Company can, subject to the relevant English law, buy back, or There are currently no UK exchange control laws, decrees or agree to buy back in the future, any shares of any class.
However, if regulations that restrict or would affect the transfer of capital or the Company has existing shares which are admitted to the Official payments of dividends, interest or other payments to US citizens or List of the London Stock Exchange and which are convertible into residents who are holders of the Companys securities except as equity shares, then the Company can only buy back equity shares otherwise set out under Taxation below.
of that class if either the terms of issue of the convertible shares permit the Company to buy back equity shares or the buy back or TAXATION agreement to buy back has been approved by an extraordinary The taxation discussion set out below is intended only as a general resolution passed by such holders.
summary of the principal US federal and UK tax consequences to US holders as described below of ADSs and does not purport to be Dividends a complete analysis or listing of all potential tax consequences of The shareholders can declare final or interim dividends by ordinary owning ADSs.
A US holder is a beneficial owner of ADSs who holds resolution.
No dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the ADSs as capital assets and is one of the following: a a citizen or the Directors.
No interim dividend shall be paid on shares which individual resident of the United States, b a corporation or certain carry deferred or non-preferred rights if, at the time of payment, any other entities taxable as corporations for US federal income tax preferential dividend is in arrears.
Unless the rights attaching to purposes organised under the laws of the United States or any shares or the terms of any shares provide otherwise, dividends are state thereof, c an estate whose income is subject to US federal paid based on the amounts which have been paid up on the shares income tax regardless of its source, or d a trust if a court within in the relevant period.
the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more US persons have the SHAREHOLDER I SHAREHOLDER IN NFORMA FORMAT TION ION 143 authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
If a taxpayers to determine the US Dollar amount to be included in partnership or other entity treated as a partnership for US tax income in the case of taxes withheld in a foreign currency.
Accrual purposes holds ADSs, the tax treatment of a partner generally will basis taxpayers therefore are urged to consult their own tax advisers depend upon the status of the partner and the activities of the regarding the requirements and elections applicable in this regard.
Investors are advised to consult their tax advisers with For purposes of computing allowable foreign tax credits for US respect to the tax consequences of their holdings and sales, federal income tax purposes, dividends paid will be treated as including the consequences under applicable US state and local law.
passive income or for certain US holders, as financial services The statements of US and UK tax laws set out below, except as income.
For taxable years beginning 1 January 2007, dividend otherwise stated, are based on the laws in force, and the published income generally will constitute passive category income, or in the practice of the UK tax authorities, as of the date of this report and case of certain US holders, general category income.
Certain US accounts and are subject to any changes which may have holders including individuals and some trusts and estates are retrospective effect occurring after that date in US or UK law or eligible for reduced rates of US federal income tax of a maximum relevant practice.
rate of 15% in respect of qualified dividend income received in The discussion is also based on the US-UK Income Tax Convention taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011, provided that the that entered into force on 31 March 2003, as amended by a Protocol US holder meets certain holding period and other requirements.
signed on 19 July 2002 the Income Tax Convention.
US holders The Company currently believes that dividends paid with respect should note that certain articles in the Income Tax Convention limit to its ADSs will constitute qualified dividend income for US federal or restrict the ability of a US holder to claim benefits under the income tax purposes, however, this is a factual matter and subject Income Tax Convention.
US holders should consult their own tax to change.
The Company anticipates that its dividends will be advisers concerning the applicability of the Income Tax Convention.
reported as qualified dividends on Form S1099DIV delivered to US holders.
US holders of ADSs are urged to consult their own tax This discussion does not address all aspects of US federal income advisers regarding the availability to them of the reduced dividend taxation that may apply to holders subject to special tax rules, rate in light of their own particular situation and the computations including US expatriates, insurance companies, tax-exempt of the foreign tax credit limitation with respect to any qualified organisations, banks and other financial institutions, regulated dividends paid to them, as applicable.
investment companies, securities broker-dealers, traders in securities who elect to apply a mark-to-market method of The US Treasury has expressed concern that parties to whom ADSs accounting, persons subject to the alternative minimum tax, are released may be taking actions inconsistent with the claiming of investors that own directly, indirectly or by attribution 10% or more reduced rates in respect of qualified dividend incomes by US holders of the outstanding share capital or voting stock of the Company, of ADSs.
Accordingly, the analysis above of the availability of persons holding their ADSs as part of a straddle, hedging qualified dividend treatment could be affected by future actions transaction or conversion transaction, persons who acquired their that may be taken by the US Treasury.
ADSs pursuant to the exercise of options or similar derivative securities or otherwise as compensation, or persons whose TAXATION OF CAPITAL GAINS functional currency is not the US Dollar, among others.
Those A holder of ADSs will be liable for UK tax on capital gains accruing holders may be subject to US federal income tax consequences on a disposal of ADSs only if such holder is resident or ordinarily different from those set forth below.
resident for tax purposes in the UK or if such holder carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch, agency or For the purposes of the Income Tax Convention and the convention permanent establishment and the ADSs are used, held or acquired between the USA and UK for the avoidance of double taxation with for the purposes of the trade, profession or vocation of the branch, respect to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Convention and for agency or permanent establishment.
Special rules can also impose the purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended, UK capital gains tax on disposals by individuals who recommence as discussed below, a US holder of ADSs will be treated as the UK residence after a period being non-resident or not ordinarily beneficial owner of the underlying ordinary shares represented resident in the UK.
US citizens or corporations who are so liable for thereby.
Furthermore, deposits or withdrawals by a US holder of UK tax may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on ordinary shares for ADSs, or of ADSs for shares, will not be subject the disposal of ADSs.
However, such persons will generally be to US federal income tax.
entitled to a tax credit against their US federal tax liability for the amount of the UK tax paid in respect of such gain subject to Taxation of dividends applicable credit limitations.
UK taxation of dividends Under current UK tax legislation, no UK tax will be withheld from For US federal income tax purposes, a US holder generally will dividend payments made by the Company.
recognise a capital gain or loss on the sale or other disposition of ADSs held as capital assets, in an amount equal to the difference US federal income taxation of dividends between the US Dollar value of the amount realised on the disposition and the US holders adjusted tax basis, determined in The gross amount of dividends paid to a US holder of ADSs will be taxable as ordinary income.
The amount to be included in gross US Dollars, in the ADSs.
Such gain or loss generally will be treated as US source gain or loss, and will be treated as a long-term capital income will be the US Dollar value of the payment at the time the gain or loss if the US holders holding period in the ADSs exceeds distribution is actually or constructively received by the ADS one year at the time of disposition.
In the case of a US holder who Depositary.
For foreign tax credit limitation purposes, dividends paid is an individual, capital gains, if any, will generally be subject to US by the Company will be income from sources outside the United federal income tax at preferential rates if specified minimum States.
Pounds Sterling received by a US holder of ADSs will have a holding periods are met.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject tax basis equal to the value at the time of the distribution.
Any gain to significant limitations.
or loss realised on a subsequent sale or other disposition of the pounds Sterling will be US source ordinary income or loss.
Special rules govern and specific elections are available to accrual method 144 Additional shareholder information continued US INFORMATION REPORTING AND BACKUP WITHHOLDING DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY A US holder who holds ADSs may in certain circumstances be All reports and other information that BG Group files with the SEC subject to information reporting to the Internal Revenue Service may be inspected at their public reference facilities at Room 1580, the IRS and possible US backup withholding at a current rate of 100 F Street, N. E. Washington, DC 20549, USA.
These reports may 28% with respect to dividends on ADSs and proceeds from the sale, also be accessed via the SECs website at www.
gov exchange or other disposition of ADSs unless such holder furnishes a correct taxpayer identification number or certificate of foreign AUDIT COMMITTEE PRE-APPROVAL POLICY AND PROCEDURES status and makes any other required certification, or is otherwise The Audit Committee annually agrees on a framework of non-audit exempt from backup withholding.
US persons who are required to activities, which are described with sufficient specificity to enable establish their exempt status generally must provide IRS Form W-9 the Committee to ensure that the proposed activity will not Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification.
compromise the independence of the external Auditors.
For each Non-US holders generally will not be subject to US information activity, the Committee approves a budget for the financial year.
However, such holders may be Accordingly, the Audit Committee is deemed to have given its prerequired to provide certification of non-US status generally on IRS approval in respect of individual assignments where the fees fall Form W-8BEN in connection with payments received in the within the agreed framework and agreed budget for that service.
US or through certain US-related financial intermediaries.
Backup Pre-approval of assignments which are either outside the agreed withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld as backup framework, or are within the agreed framework but not within withholding may be credited against a holders US federal income the agreed budget is delegated to the Audit Committee Chairman tax liability.
A holder may obtain a refund of any excess amounts or, in his absence, any other member of the Committee.
At each withheld under the backup withholding rules by filing the meeting, the Committee receives a list of all the non-audit services appropriate claim for refund with the IRS and furnishing any provided by the external Auditors, the specific nature of the work required information.
and the fees involved, for their review.
INHERITANCE TAX During 2006, 100% of Audit fees, 100% of Audit-related fees, 100% of ADSs held by an individual, who is domiciled in the US for the Tax fees and 100% of all other fees for services provided to BG Group purposes of Estate Tax Convention and is not for the purposes of the by  LLP were approved by the Audit Estate Tax Convention a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK Committee pursuant to the pre-approval policy and procedures.
inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a transfer of the ADSs during the individuals lifetime unless the ADSs form part of the business property of a permanent establishment situated in the UK or pertain to a fixed base in the UK used for the performance of independent personal services.
In the exceptional case where ADSs are subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate Tax Convention generally provides for the tax paid in the UK to be credited against tax payable in the US or for the tax paid in the US to be credited against tax payable in the UK based on priority rules set forth in the Estate Tax Convention.
UK STAMP DUTY AND STAMP DUTY RESERVE TAX No UK stamp duty will be payable on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs if there is no instrument of transfer.
If there is an instrument of transfer then provided that the instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK and remains at all times outside the UK then in practice no UK stamp duty will be payable.
An agreement to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs will not give rise to a liability to stamp duty reserve tax.
The transfer of, and an agreement to purchase, ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs, will normally give rise to a charge to UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the price.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax is generally the liability of the purchaser.
If such ordinary shares are thereafter transferred to a depositary, further stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax will normally be payable at the rate of 1.5% of the price payable for the ordinary shares so transferred.
A transfer of ordinary shares by a depositary by means of an instrument of transfer to the relevant ADS holder without transfer of beneficial ownership will in principle give rise to UK stamp duty at the rate of 5 per transfer.
Transfers that are not sales will generally be exempt from the 5 stamp duty charge if made under the CREST system for paperless share transfers.
