152 Presentation of non-GAAP measures BG Group gives certain additional information in a non-statutory Unrealised gains and losses in respect of long-term gas sales format in order to provide readers with an increased insight into the contracts, commodity instruments used to optimise the timing underlying performance of the business.
The measures BG Group of gas sales associated with contracted UK storage and pipeline uses are explained below.
facilities and interest rate and foreign exchange exposure in respect of financial instruments which cannot be designated as hedges Business Performance under IAS 39 are disclosed separately within disposals, reBusiness Performance excludes disposals, certain re-measurements measurements and impairments'.
Realised gains and losses relating and impairments see below and is presented as exclusion of these to these instruments are included in Business Performance.
This items provides readers with a clear and consistent presentation of presentation best reflects the underlying performance of the the underlying operating performance of the Groups ongoing business.
business since it distinguishes between the temporary timing differences associated with re-measurements under IAS 39 rules BG Group uses commodity instruments to manage price exposures and actual realised gains and losses.
associated with its marketing and optimisation activity in the UK and US.
This activity enables the Group to take advantage of BG Group has also separately identified profits and losses associated commodity price movements.
It is considered more appropriate to with the disposal of non-current assets and impairments of noninclude both unrealised and realised gains and losses arising from current assets as they require separate disclosure in order to the mark-to-market of derivatives associated with this activity in provide a clearer understanding of the results for the period.
For a reconciliation between the overall results and Business Performance and details of disposals, re-measurements and Disposals, re-measurements and impairments impairments, see note 2, page 80.
BG Groups commercial arrangements for marketing gas include the use of long-term gas sales contracts.
Whilst the activity surrounding Joint ventures and associates these contracts involves the physical delivery of gas, certain UK Under IFRS the results from jointly controlled entities joint gas sales contracts are classified as derivatives under the rules of ventures and associates, accounted for under the equity method, International Accounting Standard IAS 39, Financial Instruments: are required to be presented net of finance costs and tax on the face Recognition and Measurement, issued by the International of the income statement.
Given the relevance of these businesses Accounting Standards Board and are required to be measured at within BG Group, the results of joint ventures and associates are fair value at the balance sheet date.
Unrealised gains and losses presented before interest and tax, and after tax.
This approach on these contracts reflect the comparison between current market provides additional information on the source of BG Groups gas prices and the actual prices to be realised under the gas operating profits.
For a reconciliation between operating profit and sales contract.
earnings including and excluding the results of joint ventures and associates, see note 2, page 80, and note 10, page 94.
BG Group also uses commodity instruments to manage certain price exposures in respect of optimising the timing of its gas sales Exchange rates and prices associated with contracted UK storage and pipeline capacity.
These BG Group also discloses certain information, as indicated, at instruments are also required to be measured at fair value at the constant US$ UK exchange rates and upstream prices.
The balance sheet date under IAS 39.
However, IAS 39 does not allow the presentation of results in this manner is intended to provide matching of these fair values to the economically hedged value of additional information to explain further the underlying trends the related gas in storage taking account of gas prices based on the in the business.
The disclosure recalculates the current year profit forward curve or expected delivery destination and the associated on the basis that the US$ UK exchange rate and the upstream storage and capacity costs.
commodity prices were the same as in the previous year so BG Group also uses financial instruments, including derivatives, to providing a comparable base in respect of these two factors.
manage foreign exchange and interest rate exposure.
These instruments are required to be recognised at fair value or amortised Net borrowings funds cost on the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 39.
Most of these BG Group provides a reconciliation of net borrowings funds and an instruments have been designated either as hedges of foreign analysis of the amounts included within net borrowings funds as exchange movements associated with the Groups net investments this is an important liquidity measure for the Group.
in foreign operations, or as hedges of interest rate risk.
Where these Return on average capital employed ROACE represents profit instruments represent effective economic hedging activities but before tax excluding disposals, re-measurements and impairments cannot be designated as hedges under IAS 39, unrealised plus net interest payable on net borrowings, as a percentage of movements in fair value are recorded in the income statement.
