Notes to the financial statements of an invested entity so as to obtain 1 Foreign currencies General Information benefits from its activities.
All intra-group Transactions in currencies other than The Alliance Trust PLC is a company transactions, balances, income and sterling are recorded at the rates of incorporated in the United Kingdom under expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
exchange applicable to the dates of the the Companies Acts 1862-1886.
At each balance sheet date, of the registered office is given on page 59. monetary items and non-monetary assets Presentation of income statement The nature of the Group's operations and and liabilities that are fair valued and are its principal activities are a global In order better to reflect the activities of an denominated in foreign currencies are investment trust.
investment trust company and in retranslated at the rates prevailing on the 38 These financial statements are presented accordance with guidance issued by the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses in sterling because that is the currency of AITC, supplementary information which arising on retranslation are included as the primary economic environment in analyses the income statement between capital net profit or loss for the period which the Group operates.
Foreign items of a revenue and capital nature has where investments are classified as fair operations are included in accordance with been presented alongside the income value through profit or loss.
the policies set out in note 2. statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment Expenses company under section 266 of the 2 Summary of Significant Companies Act 1985, net capital returns All expenses are accounted for on an Accounting Policies may not be distributed by way of dividend.
In respect of the analysis Additionally, the net revenue is the between revenue and capital items measure the directors believe appropriate presented within the income statement, all Basis of accounting in assessing the Companys compliance expenses have been presented as revenue The financial statements of the Group have with certain requirements sets out in items except as follows: been prepared in accordance with Section 842 Income and Corporation Taxes Expenses which are incidental to the International Financial Reporting Act 1988. acquisition of an investment are Standards IFRSs, which comprise included within the cost of that standards and interpretations approved by investment.
the International Accounting Standards Goodwill Board IASB, International Accounting Expenses which are incidental to the Capitalised goodwill is the excess of the Standards and Standing Interpretations disposal of an investment are deducted cost of the acquisition of a subsidiary or Committee and interpretations approved by from the disposal proceeds of the business over the fair value of the Groups the International Accounting Standards investment.
Goodwill is Committee IASC that remain in effect reviewed annually for impairment.
The directors have determined to and to the extent that they have been allocate annual bonus and Senior adopted by the European Union.
The Management Equity Incentive Plan disclosures required by IFRS 1 First-time Income costs which relate to the achievement Adoption of International Financial of investment manager performance Dividend income from investments is Reporting Standards IFRS 1 concerning objectives and total stockholder return recognised when the shareholders' rights the transition from UK GAAP to IFRSs are performance objectives against capital to receive payment have been established, given in note 26. profits and those that relate to the normally the ex-dividend date.
The financial statements have been achievement of job performance Where the Group has elected to receive its prepared on the historical cost basis, objectives against revenue profits.
dividends in the form of additional shares except for the revaluation of certain fixed The directors have determined to rather than cash, the amount of cash assets.
The principal accounting policies allocate two thirds of the cost of bank dividend foregone is recognised as income.
adopted are set out below.
Where indebtedness incurred to finance Any excess in the value of shares received presentational guidance set out in the investment against capital profits with over the amount of cash dividend foregone Statement of Recommended Practice the balance being allocated against is recognised as a capital gain in the SORP for investment trusts issued by revenue profits.
the Association of Investment Trusts The expenses related to the repayment AITC in January 2003 as revised in Interest income is accrued on a time basis, of the Company's Preference stock and December 2005 is consistent with the by reference to the principal outstanding redemption of its Debenture stock have requirements of IFRS, then the directors and at the effective interest rate applicable, been allocated against capital.
have sought to prepare the financial which is the rate that exactly discounts statements on a basis compliant with the estimated future cash receipts through the recommendations of the SORP, save that Pension costs expected life of the financial asset to that whilst the Group allocates certain expenses asset's net carrying amount.
Employer contributions to pension against capital profits, it does not allocate Special dividends are treated as repayment arrangements for staff are charged against all direct expenditure on the same basis.
of capital or as income depending on the revenue.
facts of each particular case.
Basis of consolidation Contributions in respect of defined benefit Underwriting commission is recognised as provision are calculated by reference to The consolidated financial statements earned.
actuarial valuations carried out for the incorporate the financial statements of the Trustees at intervals of not more than Savings and pension plan transaction Company and entities controlled by the three years, and represent a charge to charges and set-up fees are accounted for Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 cover the accruing liabilities on a on the date on which the underlying January each year.
Control is achieved continuing basis.
Annual charges are where the Company has the power to applied over the period to which they relate.
The liability recognised in the balance govern the financial and operating policies
