Notes to the financial statements of an invested entity so as to obtain 1 Foreign currencies General Information benefits from its activities.
All intra-group Transactions in currencies other than The Alliance Trust PLC is a company transactions, balances, income and sterling are recorded at the rates of incorporated in the United Kingdom under expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
exchange applicable to the dates of the the Companies Acts 1862-1886.
At each balance sheet date, of the registered office is given on page 59. monetary items and non-monetary assets Presentation of income statement The nature of the Group's operations and and liabilities that are fair valued and are its principal activities are a global In order better to reflect the activities of an denominated in foreign currencies are investment trust.
investment trust company and in retranslated at the rates prevailing on the 38 These financial statements are presented accordance with guidance issued by the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses in sterling because that is the currency of AITC, supplementary information which arising on retranslation are included as the primary economic environment in analyses the income statement between capital net profit or loss for the period which the Group operates.
Foreign items of a revenue and capital nature has where investments are classified as fair operations are included in accordance with been presented alongside the income value through profit or loss.
the policies set out in note 2. statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment Expenses company under section 266 of the 2 Summary of Significant Companies Act 1985, net capital returns All expenses are accounted for on an Accounting Policies may not be distributed by way of dividend.
In respect of the analysis Additionally, the net revenue is the between revenue and capital items measure the directors believe appropriate presented within the income statement, all Basis of accounting in assessing the Companys compliance expenses have been presented as revenue The financial statements of the Group have with certain requirements sets out in items except as follows: been prepared in accordance with Section 842 Income and Corporation Taxes Expenses which are incidental to the International Financial Reporting Act 1988. acquisition of an investment are Standards IFRSs, which comprise included within the cost of that standards and interpretations approved by investment.
the International Accounting Standards Goodwill Board IASB, International Accounting Expenses which are incidental to the Capitalised goodwill is the excess of the Standards and Standing Interpretations disposal of an investment are deducted cost of the acquisition of a subsidiary or Committee and interpretations approved by from the disposal proceeds of the business over the fair value of the Groups the International Accounting Standards investment.
Goodwill is Committee IASC that remain in effect reviewed annually for impairment.
The directors have determined to and to the extent that they have been allocate annual bonus and Senior adopted by the European Union.
The Management Equity Incentive Plan disclosures required by IFRS 1 First-time Income costs which relate to the achievement Adoption of International Financial of investment manager performance Dividend income from investments is Reporting Standards IFRS 1 concerning objectives and total stockholder return recognised when the shareholders' rights the transition from UK GAAP to IFRSs are performance objectives against capital to receive payment have been established, given in note 26. profits and those that relate to the normally the ex-dividend date.
The financial statements have been achievement of job performance Where the Group has elected to receive its prepared on the historical cost basis, objectives against revenue profits.
dividends in the form of additional shares except for the revaluation of certain fixed The directors have determined to rather than cash, the amount of cash assets.
The principal accounting policies allocate two thirds of the cost of bank dividend foregone is recognised as income.
adopted are set out below.
Where indebtedness incurred to finance Any excess in the value of shares received presentational guidance set out in the investment against capital profits with over the amount of cash dividend foregone Statement of Recommended Practice the balance being allocated against is recognised as a capital gain in the SORP for investment trusts issued by revenue profits.
the Association of Investment Trusts The expenses related to the repayment AITC in January 2003 as revised in Interest income is accrued on a time basis, of the Company's Preference stock and December 2005 is consistent with the by reference to the principal outstanding redemption of its Debenture stock have requirements of IFRS, then the directors and at the effective interest rate applicable, been allocated against capital.
have sought to prepare the financial which is the rate that exactly discounts statements on a basis compliant with the estimated future cash receipts through the recommendations of the SORP, save that Pension costs expected life of the financial asset to that whilst the Group allocates certain expenses asset's net carrying amount.
Employer contributions to pension against capital profits, it does not allocate Special dividends are treated as repayment arrangements for staff are charged against all direct expenditure on the same basis.
of capital or as income depending on the revenue.
facts of each particular case.
Basis of consolidation Contributions in respect of defined benefit Underwriting commission is recognised as provision are calculated by reference to The consolidated financial statements earned.
actuarial valuations carried out for the incorporate the financial statements of the Trustees at intervals of not more than Savings and pension plan transaction Company and entities controlled by the three years, and represent a charge to charges and set-up fees are accounted for Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 cover the accruing liabilities on a on the date on which the underlying January each year.
Control is achieved continuing basis.
Annual charges are where the Company has the power to applied over the period to which they relate.
The liability recognised in the balance govern the financial and operating policies sheet in respect of the defined benefit plan when it relates to items charged or such unquoted equity instruments, they is the present value of the Companys credited directly to equity, in which case are carried at cost, subject to any provision defined benefit obligation at the balance the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets, together with adjustments for Financial instruments Office premises unrecognised past service costs.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are Office premises are shown at the valuation Actuarial gains and losses are recognised recognised on the Group's balance sheet as at 31 January 2004 carried out by in full in the period in which they occur when the Group becomes a party to the chartered surveyors on the basis of market through equity.
39 contractual provisions of the instrument.
No depreciation has been charged The Group shall offset financial assets and on this asset as, in the opinion of the Taxation financial liabilities if the Group has a board, any provision for depreciation would legally enforceable right to set off the be immaterial in relation to the revenue for The Company carries on its business as an recognised amounts and interests and the year and the assets of the Company.
investment trust and conducts its affairs so intends to settle on a net basis.
as to qualify as such under the provisions of Section 842 of the Income and Intangible assets Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Other receivables The external costs associated with the The tax expense represents the sum of the Other receivables do not carry any interest development and procurement of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
and are stated at their nominal value as significant technology systems are reduced by appropriate allowances for capitalised and stated at cost less The tax currently payable is based on estimated irrecoverable amounts.
On the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit completion of each project amortisation is differs from net profit as reported in the charged so as to write off the value of these income statement because it excludes Investments assets over periods up to five years.
items of income or expense that are Investments are recognised and taxable or deductible in other years and it derecognised on the trade date where a further excludes items that are never purchase or sale is under a contract whose Motor vehicles taxable or deductible.
The Group's liability terms require delivery within the for current tax is calculated using tax rates Motor vehicles are held at cost less timeframe established by the market that have been enacted or substantively accumulated depreciation, which is charged concerned, and are initially measured at enacted by the balance sheet date.
to write off the value of the vehicle over cost, including transaction costs.
In line with the recommendations of the Investments are principally designated as SORP, the allocation method used to fair value through profit and loss calculate tax relief on expenses presented Financial liabilities and equity investments, and are measured at against capital returns in the subsequent reporting dates at fair value, supplementary information in the income Financial liabilities and equity instruments which is either the bid price or the last statement is the marginal basis.
Under are classified according to the substance of traded price, depending on the convention this basis, if taxable income is capable of the contractual arrangements entered into.
of the exchange on which the investment is being offset entirely by expenses presented An equity instrument is any contract that quoted.
Where securities are fair-value in the revenue return column of the income evidences a residual interest in the assets designated investments, gains and losses statement, then no tax relief is transferred of the group after deducting all of its arising from changes in fair value are to the capital return column.
included in net profit or loss for the period Deferred tax is the tax expected to be as a capital item.
Foreign exchange gains payable or recoverable on differences and losses for fair-value designated Bank borrowings between the carrying amounts of assets investments are included within the and liabilities in the financial statements Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts changes in its fair value.
and the corresponding tax bases used in are recorded at the proceeds received, net Investments in property are valued at fair the computation of taxable profit, and is of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, value and changes in fair value are accounted for using the balance sheet including premiums payable on settlement recognised through the income statement.
Deferred tax liabilities are or redemption and direct issue costs, are generally recognised for all taxable accounted for on an accrual basis to the In respect of unquoted instruments, or temporary differences and deferred tax income statement using the effective where the market for a financial instrument assets are recognised to the extent that it interest method and are added to the is not active, fair value is established by is probable that taxable profits will be carrying amount of the instrument to the using valuation techniques, which may available against which deductible extent that they are not settled in the include using recent arms length market temporary differences can be utilised.
period in which they arise.
transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties, if available, reference to the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets current fair value of another instrument is reviewed at each balance sheet date and Other payables that is substantially the same, discounted reduced to the extent that it is no longer cash flow analysis and option pricing Other payables are not interest bearing probable that sufficient taxable profits will models.
Where there is a valuation be available to allow all or part of the asset and are stated at their nominal value.
technique commonly used by market to be recovered.
participants to price the instrument and Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that technique has been demonstrated to Equity instruments that are expected to apply in the period provide reliable estimates of prices Equity instruments issued by the Company when the liability is settled or the asset is obtained in actual market transactions, are recorded at the proceeds received, net realised.
Deferred tax is charged or that technique is utilised.
Where no of direct issue costs.
credited in the income statement, except reliable fair value can be estimated for
