Shareholder information Contents page Dividends 139 Major shareholders 139 Markets 139 Share price information 140 Purchases of equity securities by the issuer 142 Exchange controls 143 Taxation 143 Constitution 145 Subsidiary information 148 Related-party transactions 148 Material contracts 148 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 137 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 138 138 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 139 5.
Shareholder information Dividends Major shareholders We have a progressive dividend policy.
This means that we seek to BHP Billiton Limited steadily increase or at least maintain the dividend in US dollars at The tables in the Directors Report set forth, at 30 June 2006, each half yearly payment provided that we generate sufficient 2005 and 2004, the holdings of Directors and executive officers profit and cash flow to do so.
The amount of any cash dividend of BHP Billiton Limited, as a group, of BHP Billiton Limiteds voting paid by BHP Billiton Limited in respect of each BHP Billiton Limited securities.
No person beneficially owned more than 5 per cent share will normally be matched by an equivalent cash dividend by of BHP Billiton Limiteds voting securities at 30 June 2006.
BHP Billiton Plc in respect of each BHP Billiton Plc share, and vice BHP Billiton Limited is not directly or indirectly controlled by versa.
If one Company has insufficient profits or is otherwise another corporation or by any government.
Other than as unable to pay the agreed dividend, the other Company will, as far described in DLC structure previously, no major shareholder as practicable, enter into such transactions as are necessary so as possesses voting rights that differ from those attaching to all to enable both Companies to pay the equivalent quantum of of BHP Billiton Limiteds voting securities.
The matching dividend will be calculated before the deduction of any withholding taxes or tax payable by, or on behalf At 30 June 2006, there were 1,492 registered holders of BHP of, or any tax benefit arising to, a shareholder.
Billiton Limiteds voting securities in the United States, holding a total of 4,675,787 shares in BHP Billiton Limited or 0.13 per cent BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution allows for the issue of an of the outstanding shares.
In addition, at 30 June 2006, there Equalisation Share to a member of the BHP Billiton Plc Group and were 1,055 registered holders of BHP Billiton Limiteds American BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association allows for the issue of an Depository Receipts ADRs in the United States, holding a total Equalisation Share to a member of the BHP Billiton Limited Group.
of 284,885,572 shares in BHP Billiton Limited 142,442,786 ADRs If issued, distributions may be made on the Equalisation Shares.
The each ADR represents two BHP Billiton Limited shares, or 8.15 per amount of any such distribution would be such as the relevant Board cent of the outstanding shares.
determines to be necessary, for example, to assist or enable the other Company to pay matching dividends on its shares.
Whether or BHP Billiton Plc not Equalisation Shares are issued, the Boards of Directors retain the The following table sets forth, at 30 June 2006, 2005 and 2004, flexibility to decide from case to case whether to make contractual the holdings of each person known to us, or ascertainable from payments from one Company to the other, or to take any other public filings, to be the beneficial owner of more than 3 per cent action considered appropriate by the Boards to ensure the DLC of BHP Billiton Plcs voting securities, and the holdings of Directors equalisation principles are observed.
The shareholders of both and executive officers of BHP Billiton Plc, as a group, of BHP Companies will not have any interest in any Equalisation Shares Billiton Plcs voting securities.
issued and the Equalisation Shares will carry no voting rights.
BHP Billiton Plc is not directly or indirectly controlled by another BHP Billiton Limited will declare its dividends and other distributions corporation or by any government.
Other than as described in in US dollars but will continue to pay its dividends in Australian DLC structure above, no major shareholder possesses voting dollars or other currencies as its shareholders may elect in cases rights that differ from those attaching to all of BHP Billiton Plcs determined by the BHP Billiton Limited Board.
BHP Billiton Plc will voting securities.
continue to declare its dividends and other distributions in US dollars and make payments in pounds sterling to its shareholders registered on its principal register in the United Kingdom and South African rand to its shareholders registered on its branch register in South Africa, or in other currencies as its shareholders may elect in cases determined by the Board of BHP Billiton Plc.
Number Percent of class at 30 June b b b Title of class Identity of person or group owned 2006 2005 2004 a Ordinary shares Old Mutual Plc 213,220,031 8.70% 9.06% 8.01% Ordinary shares Legal and General Investment Management Ltd 75,230,880 3.07% 3.05% 3.05% Ordinary shares Directors and executive officers as a group 1,719 418 0.07% 0.05% 0.04% a Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Limited holds 120,438,409 shares representing 4.88 per cent of the total disclosed for Old Mutual Plc group companies.
b The percentages quoted are based on the issued share capital of 2,468,147,002 ordinary shares.
The percentage for year 2006 is based on issued share capital of 2,449,327,002 ordinary shares.
At 30 June 2006, there were 65 registered holders of BHP Billiton Plcs voting securities in the United States, holding a total of 226,558 shares in BHP Billiton Limited or 0.009 per cent of the outstanding shares.
In addition, at 30 June 2006, there were 53 registered holders of BHP Billiton Plcs ADRs in the United States, holding a total of 9,888,092 shares in BHP Billiton Plc 4,944,046 ADRs each ADR represents two BHP Billiton Plc shares or 0.40 per cent of the outstanding shares.
Markets The principal trading market for BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange LSE.
BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares The principal trading market for BHP Billiton Limiteds ordinary are also listed on stock exchanges in South Africa Johannesburg, shares is the Australian Stock Exchange Ltd ASX.
BHP Billiton and in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs in the US Limited ordinary shares are also listed on stock exchanges in New York NYSE:BBL.
ADSs evidenced by American Depositary Germany Frankfurt, Switzerland Zurich, and in the form of Receipts ADRs, for which JPMorgan Chase Bank is the Depositary, American Depositary Shares ADSs in the United States New York have been listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc NYSE:BHP.
ADSs evidenced by American Depositary Receipts since 25 June 2003 prior to this date BHP Billiton Plcs ADRs ADRs, for which JPMorgan Chase Bank is the Depositary, have traded on the over-the-counter market.
Each ADS represents the been listed for trading on the NYSE since 28 May 1987.
Each ADS right to receive two ordinary shares.
represents the right to receive two ordinary shares.
Shareholder information continued Share price information BHP Billiton Limited The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the highest and lowest closing market quotations for BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares reported on the Daily Official List of the ASX, and the highest and lowest closing prices for ADSs quoted on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, adjusted to reflect stock dividends.
b Under the terms of the DLC structure, for each existing BHP Billiton Limited share held on 5 July 2001, the holder was entitled to 1.0651 additional BHP Billiton Limited shares.
Accordingly, historical share prices have been restated to reflect this change.
The total market capitalisation of BHP Billiton Limited at 30 June 2006 was A$101.4 billion, which represented approximately 8.3 per cent of the total market capitalisation of all companies listed on the ASX.
The closing price for BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares on the ASX on such date was A$29.00.
140 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 141 BHP Billiton Plc The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the highest and lowest closing market quotations for BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares reported on the Daily Official List of the LSE, and the highest and lowest closing prices for ADSs quoted on the NYSE, adjusted to reflect stock dividends.
b The prices have been adjusted to reflect the terms of the DLC structure and the bonus issue allotted to existing BHP Billiton Plc shareholders in July 2002.
Accordingly, historical share prices have been restated to reflect these changes.
The total market capitalisation of BHP Billiton Plc at 30 June 2006 was 25.7 billion, which represented approximately 1.44 per cent of the total market capitalisation of all companies listed on the LSE.
The closing price for BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares on the LSE on such date was 10.49.
Shareholder information continued Purchases of equity securities by the issuer Unless noted otherwise, the shares in column a were purchased to satisfy awards made under the various BHP Billiton Limited and Plc employee share schemes.
b As at 30 June 2006, these shares in BHP Billiton Limited could be repurchased pursuant to the on-market share buy-back program.
Since 30 June 2006, the program has been extended by 12 months to 30 September 2007 and the number of shares that may be repurchased under the program has been reduced to 349,000,000. c These shares in BHP Billiton Plc may be repurchased pursuant to the authority granted by the BHP Billiton shareholders at the 2004 and 2005 Annual General Meetings.
A renewal of this authority is being sought at the 2006 Annual General Meetings.
d On 3 April 2006, the BHP Billiton Group completed an off-market buy-back of 95,950,979 BHP Billiton Limited shares.
In accordance with the structure of the buy-back, US$145 million was allocated to the share capital of BHP Billiton Limited and US$1,475 million was allocated to retained earnings.
These shares were then cancelled.
The final price for the buy-back was A$23.45 per share, representing a discount of 14 per cent to the volume weighted average price of BHP Billiton Limited shares over the five days up to and including the closing date of the buy-back.
e On 16 May 2006, the BHP Billiton Group completed an on-market buy-back of 18,820,000 BHP Billiton Plc shares.
All BHP Billiton Plc shares bought back are held as treasury shares within the share capital of BHP Billiton Plc.
The shares were repurchased at an average price of 11.5356, representing a discount of 8.8 per cent to the average BHP Billiton Limited share price between 27 April 2006 and 16 May 2006.
142 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 143 Exchange controls acquire a relevant interest in shares in a listed company or an unlisted company with more than 50 members if this will result in BHP Billiton Plc a persons voting power increasing to more than 20 per cent, or There are no UK foreign exchange controls or other restrictions on increasing from a starting point that is above 20 per cent and the export or import of capital or on the payment of dividends to below 90 per cent.
Those restrictions, and the applicable non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Plc shares.
However, there are provisions contained in the takeovers code under UK law, are also certain sanctions adopted by the UK government implementing entrenched in the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the resolutions of the Security Council of the United Nations against Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
certain countries, entities and individuals, including senior officials There are no other statutory or regulatory provisions of Australian of the previous government of Iraq and their immediate families law or ASX requirements that restrict foreign ownership or control and those linked with the Taliban, Al Qaeda and other terrorist of BHP Billiton Limited.
There are no restrictions under BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Taxation Association or under UK law that limit the right of non-resident The taxation discussion set forth below describes the material or foreign owners to hold or vote BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
Australian income tax, UK tax and US federal income tax consequences of a US holder as hereinafter defined owning BHP BHP Billiton Limited Billiton Limited ordinary shares or ADSs or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary The Reserve Bank of Australia does not inhibit the import and shares or ADSs.
The discussion is based on the Australian, UK and export of funds, and no permission is required by BHP Billiton US tax laws currently in effect, as well as on the double taxation Limited for the movement of funds in and out of Australia.
convention between Australia and the US the Australian Treaty, However, certain Australian foreign exchange and other controls the double tax convention between the UK and the US the UK are in place against certain countries, entities and individuals, Treaty and the estate tax conventions between the UK and the US including: individuals or entities linked with the Taliban, Al Qaeda the UK Estate Tax Treaty.
For purposes of this discussion, a US and other terrorist organisations: senior officials of the previous holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs who is, for government of Iraq and their immediate families: individuals and US federal income tax purposes, a citizen or individual resident of entities associated with the regime of former President of the US, a domestic corporation, an estate whose income is subject Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic: and certain ministers and senior to US federal income tax regardless of its source, or a trust if a US officials of the Government of Zimbabwe.
These controls impose court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts certain approval and reporting requirements on transactions administration and one or more US persons are authorised to involving such countries, entities and individuals and or assets control all substantial decisions of the trust.
controlled or owned by them.
We recommend that holders of ordinary shares or ADSs consult Remittances of any dividends, interest or other payments by their own tax advisers regarding the Australian, UK and US federal, BHP Billiton Limited to non-resident holders of BHP Billiton state and local tax and other tax consequences of owning and Limiteds securities are not restricted by exchange controls or disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular other limitations save that, in certain circumstances, BHP Billiton circumstances.
may be required to withhold Australian taxes.
Shareholdings in BHP Billiton Limited There are no limitations, either under the laws of Australia or under the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited, to the right of Australia taxation non-residents to hold or vote BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares In this section references to resident and non-resident refer to other than as set out below.
residence status for Australian income tax purposes.
The Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 Cth the Dividends Takeovers Act applies to an acquisition by a foreign person of an Under the Australian Treaty, dividends paid by BHP Billiton Limited interest in the shares of an Australian company with total assets of to a US holder who or which is eligible for treaty benefits and A$50 million or more, which results in the acquisition of or whose holding is not effectively connected with a permanent addition to a substantial interest in the Australian company.
establishment in Australia or, in the case of a shareholder who However, as a result of the US Free Trade Agreement performs independent personal services from a fixed base Implementation Act 2004 Cth, at 30 June 2006 this threshold is situated therein, is not connected with that fixed base, may be increased to A$831 million for investments in non-sensitive sectors subject to Australian withholding tax at a rate not exceeding and A$52 million for investments in sensitive sectors such as 15 per cent of such gross dividend.
banking and media for investors from the United States.
Dividends paid to non-residents of Australia are exempt from A substantial interest is defined to be any single foreign person withholding tax to the extent to which such dividends are franked and its associates controlling 15 per cent or more, or two or more under Australias dividend imputation system or as declared by foreign persons and their associates in aggregate controlling BHP Billiton Limited to be conduit foreign income CFI.
Dividends 40 per cent or more, of shares or voting power.
Accordingly, any are considered to be franked to the extent that they are paid out proposed acquisition that would result in these thresholds being of post 1986-87 income on which Australian income tax has been exceeded must be notified to the Treasurer of the Commonwealth levied.
CFI is made up of certain amounts that are earned by BHP of Australia in advance of the acquisition.
Billiton Limited that are not subject to tax in Australia, such as The Takeovers Act, therefore, affects BHP Billiton Limited and its dividends remitted to Australia by foreign subsidiaries.
Any part of subsidiaries in two ways.
First, because BHP Billiton Limited is an a dividend paid to a US holder that is not franked and is not CFI Australian incorporated company, it may affect the right of nonwill generally be subject to Australian withholding tax unless a Australian residents, including US residents, to hold ordinary specific exemption applies.
shares in BHP Billiton Limited.
It will not affect the voting or other rights attached to those shares if they are acquired or held in Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs accordance with the terms of the Takeovers Act.
Second, because A US citizen who is a resident of Australia other than certain at 30 June 2006 BHP Billiton Limited and it subsidiaries are temporary residents or a US corporation that is a resident of considered foreign persons for the purposes of the Takeovers Act, Australia by reason of carrying on business in Australia and either BHP Billiton Limited and its subsidiaries must apply to the Treasurer being managed and controlled in Australia or having its voting for prior approval under the Takeovers Act before certain activities power controlled by shareholders who are residents of Australia are undertaken, including the acquisition of shares in Australian may be liable for income tax on any profit on disposal of ordinary companies, meeting the thresholds described above.
shares or ADSs, or Australian capital gains tax on the disposal of Under the Corporations Act 2001 Cth, residents and nonordinary shares or ADSs acquired after 19 September 1985. residents of Australia must not, subject to certain exceptions, BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 143 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 144 5.
Shareholder information continued Under Australian law as currently in effect, no income or other tax fact receive it.
The dividend is taxable to the holder when the is payable on any profit on disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs holder in the case of ordinary shares, or the Depositary in the case held by persons not resident in Australia except if the profit is of of ADSs, receives the dividend, actually or constructively.
an income nature and sourced in Australia, or the sale is subject to If you are a non-corporate US holder, dividends paid to you on Australian capital gains tax.
If the profit is sourced in Australia, it shares or ADSs in taxable years before 1 January 2011 will be will not be taxable in Australia if it represents business profits of taxable to you at the rate applicable to long-term capital gains an enterprise carried on by a US holder entitled to treaty benefits generally at a maximum rate of 15 per cent provided that the and the enterprise does not carry on business in Australia through ADSs remain readily tradeable on an established securities market a permanent establishment situated in Australia.
in the US and you hold the shares or ADSs for more than 60 days Any gain upon disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs, if held by a during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the experson not resident in Australia, may be subject to capital gains tax dividend date and meet other holding period requirements.
In the if the non-resident together with associates, if any beneficially case of a corporate US holder, dividends on shares and ADSs are owns or owned at any time during so much of the period of five taxed as ordinary income and will not be eligible for the dividends years preceding the disposal, 10 per cent or more by value of the received deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect issued share capital of BHP Billiton Limited excluding share capital of dividends received from other US corporations.
carrying no right to participate beyond a specified amount in a Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and distribution of profits or capital, or where the ordinary shares or profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be ADSs have been used by the non-resident in carrying on a trade or treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the business through a permanent establishment in Australia.
holders basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter as a Amendments currently being considered by the Australian capital gain.
Parliament will, if enacted, further limit the application of the Subject to certain limitations, Australian tax withheld in capital gains tax rules for non-residents.
accordance with the Australian Treaty and paid over to Australia Australian capital gains tax is generally payable upon the net will be creditable against your US federal income tax liability.
capital gain arising from the sale of assets acquired after Special rules apply in determining the foreign tax credit limitation 19 September 1985.
For individuals, only 50 per cent of the capital with respect to dividends that are taxed at the capital gains rate.
gain calculated with no indexation of the cost base and after To the extent a refund of the tax withheld is available to a US offsetting capital losses, if any arising from the sale of assets holder under Australian law or under the Australian Treaty, the acquired on or after 11.45 am Australian Eastern Standard Time amount of tax withheld that is refundable will not be eligible for 21 September 1999, is subject to capital gains tax provided the credit against the holders US federal income tax liability.
asset is held for at least 12 months.
For assets acquired between Dividends will be income from sources outside the US, but 20 September 1985 and 21 September 1999 but sold after generally will be, for taxable years beginning before 1 January 21 September 1999, individuals have the choice of calculating the 2007, passive income or financial services income or, for taxable capital gain as either 50 per cent of the capital gain calculated years beginning after 31 December 2006, passive or general with no indexation of the cost base and after offsetting capital income, which in either case is treated separately from other types losses, if any or the disposal proceeds less the cost indexed for of income for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit inflation up to 30 September 1999.
If an asset is held for less than allowable to a US holder.
12 months, 100 per cent of the net capital gain calculated with no indexation of the cost base is subject to capital gains tax.
Capital Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs losses are calculated with no indexation of the cost base and can only be offset against capital gains.
A US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax US taxation purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised and its tax basis, determined in US dollars, in This section describes the material US federal income tax those ordinary shares or ADSs.
The capital gain of a non-corporate consequences to a US holder of owning ordinary shares or ADSs.
US holder that is recognised before 1 January 2011 is generally It applies only to ordinary shares or ADSs that are held as capital taxed at a maximum rate of 15 per cent where the holder has a assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to a holder of holding period greater than 12 months.
The gain or loss will ordinary shares or ADSs who is a member of a special class of generally be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign holders subject to special rules, including a dealer in securities, a tax credit limitation purposes.
trader in securities that elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for its securities holdings, a tax-exempt organisation, a Shareholdings in BHP Billiton Plc life insurance company, a person liable for alternative minimum The UK and the US entered into a new double tax convention on tax, a person who actually or constructively owns 10 per cent or more of the voting stock of BHP Billiton Limited, a person who 31 March 2003.
The commentary below is based on this treaty.
holds ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or UK taxation conversion transaction, or a US holder whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
Dividends Under UK law, no UK tax is required to be withheld at source from This section is based in part upon the representations of the dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs.
Depositary and the assumption that each obligation in the deposit agreement and any related agreement will be performed in Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs accordance with its terms.
US holders will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains realised on In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a holder of ADSs disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs unless: will be treated as the owner of the ordinary shares represented by they are resident or ordinarily resident in the UK or those ADSs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs for they carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a ordinary shares, will generally not be subject to US federal income branch or agency for the years in which the disposal occurs and tax.
the shares or ADSs have been used, held or acquired for the Dividends purposes of such trade or profession or vocation, branch or agency.
In the case of a trade, the term branch includes a Under the US federal income tax laws, a US holder must include in permanent establishment.
its gross income the gross amount of any dividend paid by BHP Billiton Limited out of its current or accumulated earnings and Individuals resident in the UK for tax purposes on or after profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
The 17 March 1998 and who become US holders while so resident may holder must include any Australian tax withheld from the dividend become subject to UK tax on capital gains if they dispose of shares payment in this gross amount even though the holder does not in or ADSs while resident for tax purposes in the US but resume UK 144 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 145 tax residence within five complete UK tax years of the disposition.
Dividends Under the UK Treaty, US holders who are eligible for treaty benefits Under the US federal income tax laws, a US holder must include in are entitled to claim US tax paid on such a disposition as a credit their gross income the gross amount of any dividend paid by BHP against any corresponding UK tax payable.
Billiton Plc out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
A US holder is generally eligible for benefits under the UK Treaty if the holder i is a resident of the US for the purposes of the UK The dividend is taxable to the holder when the holder, in the case Treaty, ii does not maintain a permanent establishment or fixed of ordinary shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, receives base in the UK to which ordinary shares or ADSs are attributable the dividend, actually or constructively.
and through which the US holder carries on or has carried on If you are a non-corporate US holder, dividends paid to you on business or, in the case of an individual, performs or has shares or ADSs in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 performed independent personal service, iii is otherwise eligible will be taxable to you at the rate applicable to long-term capital for benefits under the UK Treaty with respect to income and gain gains generally at a maximum rate of 15 per cent provided that from ordinary shares, and iv satisfies the limitations of benefits the ADSs remain readily tradeable on an established securities article of the UK Treaty.
market in the US and you hold the shares or ADSs for more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the UK inheritance tax ex-dividend date, and meet other holding period requirements.
In An individual who, under the UK Estate Tax Treaty, is a US holder the case of a corporate US holder, dividends on shares and ADSs and is domiciled in the US and not domiciled in the UK will not be are taxed as ordinary income and will not be eligible for the subject to UK inheritance tax on the disposal of the ordinary dividends received deduction generally allowed to US corporations shares or ADSs by way of a gift or upon the individuals death.
in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
The exception to this is where the ordinary shares or ADSs are part of the business property of a UK permanent establishment of the Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and individual US holder or pertain to a UK fixed base of an individual profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be who performs independent personal services.
treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the holders basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter as a Special rules apply to ADSs held in trust.
In all other cases, UK inheritance tax may apply to the gift of the Dividends will be income from sources outside the US, but ordinary shares or ADSs or on the individuals death.
The UK Estate generally will for taxable years beginning before 1 January 2007, Tax Treaty provides a credit mechanism where an individual is be passive income or financial services income or, for taxable subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US federal estate or years beginning after 31 December 2006, passive or general gift tax.
income, which in either case is treated separately from other types of income for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax allowable to a US holder.
Stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable on the transfer of ordinary shares to the depository or their nominee where those Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs shares are for inclusion in the ADSs.
The current rate of stamp duty A US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or reserve tax is 1.5 per cent on the purchase price or market value of ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax the transferred shares.
purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of Transfer of the ADSs will not give rise to stamp duty if the the amount realised and its tax basis, determined in US dollars, in instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK and remains those ordinary shares or ADSs.
The capital gain of a non-corporate outside the UK.
US holder that is recognised before 1 January 2011 is generally taxed at a maximum rate of 15 per cent where the holder has a Transfers of ordinary shares to persons other than the depository holding period greater than 12 months.
The gain or loss will or their nominee will give rise to stamp duty or stamp duty reserve generally be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax at the time of transfer.
The relevant rate is currently 0.5 per tax credit limitation purposes.
cent of the amount payable for the shares.
The purchaser normally pays the stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax.
Constitution Special rules apply to transactions involving intermediates and The following text summarises the Constitution of BHP Billiton stock lending.
Limited and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
The Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association US taxation of BHP Billiton Plc are, so far as possible, identical for ease of This section describes the material US federal income tax administration.
Where the term BHP Billiton is used in this consequences to a US holder of owning ordinary shares or ADSs.
description of the Constitution and Articles of Association, it can It applies only to ordinary shares or ADSs that are held as capital be read to mean either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
This section does not apply to a holder of ordinary shares or ADSs who is a member of a special class of Directors holders subject to special rules, including a dealer in securities, a The management and control of the business and affairs of BHP trader in securities who elects to use a mark-to-market method of Billiton are vested in the Board of Directors, which, in addition to accounting for their securities holdings, a tax-exempt organisation, the powers and authorities conferred on it by the Constitution and a life insurance company, a person liable for alternative minimum Articles of Association, may exercise all powers and do everything tax, a person who actually or constructively owns 10 per cent or that is within the power of BHP Billiton, other than what is more of the voting stock of BHP Billiton Plc, a person who holds required to be exercised or done by BHP Billiton in a general ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or meeting.
conversion transaction, or a US holder whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
Power to vote where materially interested This section is based in part upon the representations of the A Director may not vote in respect of any contract or arrangement or any other proposal in which he or she has a material personal Depositary and the assumption that each obligation in the deposit agreement and any related agreement will be performed in interest.
A Director shall not be counted at a meeting in relation to any resolution on which he or she is not entitled to vote.
In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a holder of ADSs will be treated as the owner of the ordinary shares represented by those ADSs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs for ordinary shares, will generally not be subject to US federal income tax.
Shareholder information continued Power to vote in relation to compensation remuneration Voting rights Subject to the provisions of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and the United Kingdom Companies Act, a Director is entitled to is in the first instance to be conducted by a show of hands unless a vote, and be counted in the quorum, in respect of any resolution poll is demanded by any of the following except in relation to the concerning any of the following matters, namely where the election of a chairman of a meeting or, unless the Chairman material personal interest: otherwise determines, the adjournment of a meeting : arises because the Director is a shareholder of BHP Billiton and the Chairman is held in common with the other shareholders of BHP Billiton any shareholder under the law or arises in relation to the Directors remuneration as a Director of the holder of the BHP Special Voting Share.
BHP Billiton In addition, at any general meeting a resolution, other than a relates to a contract BHP Billiton is proposing to enter into that is procedural resolution, put to the vote of the meeting on which the subject to approval by the shareholders and will not impose any holder of the BHP Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall be obligation on BHP Billiton if it is not approved by the decided on a poll.
shareholders On a show of hands, every shareholder present, except the holder arises merely because the Director is a guarantor or has given an of the BHP Special Voting Share, has one vote.
Where a shareholder indemnity or security for all or part of a loan, or proposed loan, has appointed more than one person as representative, proxy or to BHP Billiton attorney for that shareholder, none of the representatives, proxies arises merely because the Director has a right of subrogation or attorneys are entitled to vote on a show of hands.
On a poll, in relation to a guarantee or indemnity referred to above however, votes may be given either personally or by proxy.
relates to a contract that insures, or would insure, the Director Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc is in the first against liabilities the Director incurs as an officer of BHP Billiton, instance to be conducted by a show of hands unless a poll is but only if the contract does not make BHP Billiton or a related demanded by any of the following: body corporate the insurer the Chairman relates to any payment by BHP Billiton or a related body corporate in respect of a permitted indemnity, as defined under not less than five members present in person or by proxy and law, or any contract relating to such an indemnity or entitled to vote is in a contract, or proposed contract with, or for the benefit of, a member or members present in person or by proxy and or on behalf of, a related body corporate and arises merely representing not less than 5 per cent of the total voting rights of because the Director is a Director of a related body corporate.
all the members having the right to vote at the meeting or the holder of the Billiton Special Voting Share.
Borrowing powers In addition, at any general meeting a resolution, other than a Any Director may lend money to BHP Billiton at interest with or procedural resolution, put to the vote of the meeting on which the without security or may, for a commission or profit, guarantee the holder of the Billiton Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall repayment of any money borrowed by BHP Billiton and underwrite be decided on a poll.
or guarantee the subscription of shares or securities of BHP Billiton or of any corporation in which BHP Billiton may be interested.
In On a show of hands, every shareholder present, except the terms of actual borrowing power, the Board may entrust to any holder of the Billiton Special Voting Share, has one vote.
Director holding any executive office any of the borrowing powers Where a shareholder has appointed more than one person as exercisable under the Constitution or the Articles of Association.
representative, proxy or attorney for that shareholder, none of the representatives, proxies or attorneys are entitled to vote on a show Retirement of Directors of hands.
On a poll, however, votes may be given either personally A person who has attained the age of 70 may by special resolution or by proxy.
be appointed or reappointed as a Director of BHP Billiton to hold Rights to share in BHP Billiton Limiteds profits office until the conclusion of BHP Billitons next Annual General Meeting.
A person who has attained the age of 70 during that The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Limited, as persons tenure as a Director may continue to act as a Director regards the participation in the profits available for distribution, during the period that starts on the day on which they turn 70 are as follows: and ends at the conclusion of the first Annual General Meeting of The holders of any preference shares shall be entitled, in priority BHP Billiton after that day.
to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other class of shares, to a preferred right to participate as regards dividends In relation to retirement generally, at every general meeting one up to but not beyond a specified amount in distribution.
third of the Directors or, if their number is not a multiple of three, Subject to the special rights attaching to any preference shares then the number nearest to but not less than one-third, must retire but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes of from office.
The Directors to retire are those longest in office since shares, the holder of the Equalisation Shares shall be entitled to last being elected.
As between Directors who were elected on the be paid such dividends as are declared.
same day, the Directors to retire are determined by lot in default of agreement between them.
Further, a Director must retire from Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions shall be office at the conclusion of the third Annual General Meeting after payable to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares which the Director was elected or re-elected.
and the BHP Special Voting Share in equal amounts per share.
Rights attaching to shares Dividend rights Under law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of profits available for distribution.
The Constitution and Articles of Association provide that payment of any dividend may be made in any manner, by any means and in any currency determined by the Board.
All unclaimed dividends may be invested or otherwise used by the Board for the benefit of BHP Billiton until claimed or otherwise disposed of according to law.
146 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 147 Rights to share in BHP Billiton Plcs profits The preference shares are to confer on the holders: the right on redemption and on a winding up to payment in The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Plc, in relation to cash in priority to any other class of shares of i the amount the participation in the profits available for distribution, are as paid or agreed to be considered as paid on each of the follows: preference shares, and ii the amount, if any, equal to the The holders of the cumulative preference shares shall be entitled, aggregate of any dividends accrued but unpaid and of any in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other arrears of dividends class of shares, to be paid a fixed cumulative preferential the right, in priority to any payment of dividend on any other dividend Preferential Dividend at a rate of 5.5 per cent per class of shares, to the preferential dividend.
annum, to be paid annually in arrears on 31 July in each year or, if any such date shall be a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday in There is no equivalent provision in the Articles of Association of England, on the first business day following such date in each BHP Billiton Plc.
Payments of Preferential Dividends shall be made to holders on the register at any date selected by the Directors up to 42 Capital calls days prior to the relevant fixed dividend date.
Subject to the terms on which any shares may have been issued, Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference the Board may make calls on the shareholders in respect of all shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other moneys unpaid on their shares.
Each shareholder is liable to pay classes of shares, the holder of the Billiton Special Voting Share the amount of each call in the manner, at the time and at the place shall be entitled to be paid a fixed dividend of US$0.01 per specified by the Board.
A call is considered to have been made at annum payable annually in arrears on 31 July.
the time when the resolution of the Board authorising the call was Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference passed.
shares and the Billiton Special Voting Share, but in priority to any Changes to rights of shareholders payment of dividends on all other classes of shares, the holder of the Equalisation Share shall be entitled to be paid such dividends Rights attached to any class of shares issued by either BHP Billiton as the Board may decide to pay thereupon.
Limited or BHP Billiton Plc can only be varied where such variation is approved both: Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions under the above distributions shall be payable to the holders of the by the Company that issued the relevant shares, as a special BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares in equal amounts per BHP Billiton resolution Plc ordinary share.
by the holders of the issued shares of the affected class, either at a special meeting by resolution passed by not less than threeLiquidation quarters of the holders present at the meeting and by voting, or On a return of assets on liquidation, the assets of BHP Billiton in writing signed by the holders of at least three-quarters of the Limited remaining available for distribution among shareholders, issued shares of that class.
after giving effect to the payment of all prior ranking amounts The Board may determine that the resolution to be passed by the owed to all creditors and holders of preference shares, shall be relevant Company is either a Class Rights Action or a Joint applied in paying to the holders of the BHP Special Voting Share Electorate Action, and accordingly the resolution may need to be and the Equalisation Share an amount of up to A$2.00 on each passed by the shareholders of both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP such share, on an equal priority with any amount paid to the Billiton Plc.
holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares, and any surplus remaining shall be applied in making payments solely to the Various rights attaching to all shares issued by either BHP Billiton holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares in accordance Limited or BHP Billiton Plc can only be varied where such variation with their entitlements.
is approved as either a Class Rights Action or a Joint Electorate Action, depending on the type of right to be varied.
The Subject to the payment of prior ranking amounts owed to the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association creditors of BHP Billiton Plc and prior ranking statutory of BHP Billiton Plc set out those rights that may only be varied as a entitlements, the assets of BHP Billiton Plc to be distributed Class Rights Action, and those rights that may only be varied as a on a winding up shall be distributed to the holders of shares Joint Electorate Action.
in the following order of priority: For a description of a Class Rights Action and a Joint Electorate to the holders of the cumulative preference shares, the repayment of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up or Action, refer to the Organisational structure voting section of credited as paid up on the cumulative preference shares held this Report.
by them and accrual, if any, of the Preferential Dividend whether These conditions are more significant than is required by Australian such dividend has been earned or declared or not, calculated and UK law to the extent that the Board determines the relevant up to the date of commencement of the winding up, and resolution is either a Class Rights Action or a Joint Electorate to the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares and to the Action.
holders of the Billiton Special Voting Share and the Equalisation Share, the payment out of surplus, if any, remaining after the Conditions governing general meetings distribution under the previous bullet point above of an equal All provisions relating to general meetings apply to any special amount for each Billiton ordinary share, the Billiton Special meeting of any class of shareholders that may be held.
Therefore, Voting Share and the Equalisation Share, if issued, subject to a the following information relates equally to Annual General maximum in the case of the Billiton Special Voting Share and the Meetings and extraordinary general meetings.
Equalisation Share of the nominal capital paid up on such The Board may and shall on requisition in accordance with shares.
applicable laws call a general meeting.
No shareholder may Redemption convene a general meeting of BHP Billiton except where entitled under law to do so.
Any Director may convene a general meeting If BHP Billiton Limited at any time proposes to create and issue any whenever the Director thinks fit.
Notice of a meeting must be preference shares, the preference shares may be issued on the given in the form and manner in which the Board thinks fit.
terms that they are to be redeemed or, at the option of either or Five shareholders present constitute a quorum for a meeting.
A both BHP Billiton Limited and the holder, are liable to be shareholder who is entitled to attend and cast a vote at a general redeemed, whether out of share capital, profits or otherwise.
meeting of BHP Billiton Limited may appoint a person as a proxy to The preference shares confer on the holders the right to convert attend and vote for the shareholder in accordance with the law.
the preference shares into ordinary shares if, and on the basis, the Board determines at the time of issue of the preference shares.
Shareholder information continued Limitations on rights to own securities Neither the Constitution nor the Articles of Association impose any limitations on the rights to own securities other than restrictions that reflect the takeovers codes under relevant Australian and UK law.
In addition, the Australian Foreign Acquisition and Takeovers Act 1975 imposes a number of conditions, which restrict foreign ownership of Australian-based companies.
Share control limits imposed by the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc, as well as relevant laws are described under the Organisational structure, Equalisation of economic and voting rights, Voting, Matching actions and Takeover provisions above.
Documents on display You can consult reports and other information about BHP Billiton Limited that it has filed pursuant to the rules of the ASX at www.
You can consult reports and other information filed for publication by BHP Billiton Plc pursuant to the rules of the UK Listing Authority at the Authoritys document viewing facility.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc both file annual and special reports and other information with the SEC.
You may read and copy any document that either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc files at the SECs public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1,580, Washington, DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or access the SEC website at www.
gov for further information on the public reference room.
The SEC filings of BHP Billiton Limited since November 2002, and those of BHP Billiton Plc since April 2003, are also available on the SEC website.
American Depositary Shares representing ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Limited are listed on the NYSE, and its ordinary shares are listed on the ASX.
American Depositary Shares representing ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Plc are also listed on the NYSE and its ordinary shares are admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority being the Financial Services Authority acting in its capacity as the competent authority for the purposes of Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, and the London Stock Exchange Plc for trading on the LSEs market for listed securities.
You can consult reports and other information about BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc that each has filed pursuant to the rules of the NYSE at the exchange.
Subsidiary information Information on our significant subsidiaries is included in note 37 Subsidiaries to the financial statements.
Related-party transactions The BHP Billiton Group is a group of approximately 450 subsidiaries.
The BHP Billiton Group operates around the world.
A list of the major entities, together with their place of incorporation and percentage of ownership, is listed in note 37 Subsidiaries in the financial statements.
Related-party transactions are outlined in note 34 Related-party transactions in the financial statements.
Material contracts DLC agreements The DLC structure was implemented on 29 June 2001.
The DLC agreements entered into upon completion of the DLC arrangement were as follows: a the Sharing Agreement b the Special Voting Shares Deed c the BHP Deed Poll Guarantee d the Billiton Deed Poll Guarantee.
The effect of each of the agreements and the manner in which they operate are described in more detail in the organisational structure section above.
