5041 BHPB AR06 Pt2 13 9 06 10:11 PM Page 242 BHP Billiton Plc continued Notes to the BHP Billiton Plc unconsolidated parent company Balance Sheet 1 Principal accounting policies ii Foreign currencies i Basis of accounting The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out in note 1 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
The BHP Billiton Plc entity accounts are prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and applicable UK Generally iii Investments Accepted Accounting Policies UK GAAP using the historical cost Fixed asset investments are stated individually at cost less provisions convention and have been applied on a consistent basis with the year for impairments.
ended 30 June 2005, except for the changes in accounting policy effective 1 July 2005 noted below.
Fixed asset investments are assessed to ensure carrying amounts do not exceed estimated recoverable amounts.
The carrying amount of Effective 1 July 2005, the Company adopted FRS 17 Retirement each income generating unit is reviewed at least annually to evaluate Benefits.
Under the revised policy the liability recognised is based on whether the carrying amount is recoverable or more regularly if an underlying obligations and assets of the Companys defined benefit event or change in circumstances indicates that the carrying amount pension plan.
The net obligation is calculated by estimating the of an asset may not be recoverable.
If the asset is determined to be amount of future benefits employees have earned in return for their impaired, an impairment loss will be recorded and the asset written past service.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in down based on the amount by which the asset carrying amount retained earnings.
The effect of the accounting policy change was to exceeds the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
Value in increase shareholders funds at 30 June 2005 by US$0.71 million and use is generally determined by discounting expected future cash flows to increase attributable profit for the year ended 30 June 2005 by using a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate appropriate to the risks US$0.207 million.
The effect on attributable profit for the year ended inherent in the asset.
Effective 1 July 2005, the Company adopted FRS 20 Share-based iv Deferred taxation Payment.
Under the revised policy the estimated cost of share awards Tax-effect accounting is applied in respect of corporation tax.
Full made by the Company including shares and options is measured provision is made for deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets based on the fair value of those awards rather than intrinsic value as that represent the tax effect of timing differences which arise from previously used.
The effect of the accounting policy change was to the recognition in the accounts of items of revenue and expense in increase attributable profit for the year ended 30 June 2005 by periods different to those in which they are taxable or deductible for US$16.653 million and to increase attributable profit for the year corporation tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are ended 30 June 2006 by US$16.463 million.
The change in policy had measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the timing no effect on shareholders funds at 30 June 2005. differences are expected to reverse.
Effective 1 July 2005, the Company adopted FRS 21 Events After the v Share-based payments Balance Date.
Under the revised policy dividends payable are not recorded as a liability of the Company until formally declared by the The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out in Directors.
The effect of the accounting policy change was to increase note 1 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
Details shareholders funds at 30 June 2005 by US$358 million and to of the Employee Share Ownership Plans are contained in note 27 of decrease dividend payable by a corresponding amount.
The change in the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
Details of the accounting policy had no effect on attributable profit for the year terms and operation of the plans are set out in the Remuneration ended 30 June 2005 and 30 June 2006.
The Company adopted FRS 22 Earnings per Share, FRS 23 The vi Revenue recognition Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, FRS 24 Financial Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Dividend income Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies, FRS 25 Financial is recognised on declaration by subsidiaries.
Instruments: Disclosure and presentation, FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement and FRS 28 Corresponding Amounts vii Treasury shares with effect from 1 July 2005.
The adoption of these standards has not The consideration paid for the repurchase of BHP Billiton Plc shares impacted the amounts recorded in the BHP Billiton Plc parent which are held as treasury shares is recognised as a reduction in company financial statements.
shareholders funds and represents a reduction in distributable The corresponding amounts in these financial statements have been reserves.
restated in accordance with these new policies.
viii Pension costs and other post retirement benefits The changes in accounting policies have resulted in no measurement differences for the years ended 30 June 2005 and 30 June 2006 The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out between the application of the Groups accounting policies in in note 1 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
accordance with IFRS as set out in note 1 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group and the application of BHP Billiton Plcs accounting policies determined in accordance with UK GAAP.
2 Fixed assets At 30 June 2006 the Company held an investment of US$3,131 million 2005: US$3,131 million in BHP Billiton Group Ltd which represents 100 per cent of the ordinary shares in issue.
BHP Billiton Group Ltd is included in the consolidation of the BHP Billiton Group.
3 Creditors amounts falling due within one year BHP Billiton Plc 2006 2005 US$M US$M restated Bank overdraft 14 10 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,293 865 Accruals and deferred income 59 1,366 875 The audit fee payable in respect of the audit of the BHP Billiton Plc company financial statements was a nominal amount refer to note 4 of the BHP Billiton Group financial statements for fees for the Group as a whole.
This has been included within amounts owed to Group undertakings.
