Key information Selected financial information The selected financial information for BHP Billiton reflects the combined operations of both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and has been derived from the 2006 financial statements.
The selected financial information should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 2006 financial statements and notes thereto.
For the first time for 2005-06, the BHP Billiton Groups financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as such, the basis of preparation is different to that of the most recent comparative years annual financial report.
The 2004-05 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
IFRS differ in certain aspects from US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP.
Details of the principal differences between IFRS and US GAAP are set out in note 39 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures in the financial statements.
The BHP Billiton Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in US dollars.
Amounts in accordance with IFRS 30 June 30 June US$M except per share data 2006 2005 Consolidated Income Statement Revenue together with share of jointly controlled entities revenue 39,099 31,150 Less: share of jointly controlled entities external revenue included above 6,946 4,428 Revenue 32,153 26,722 Profit from operations 14,671 9,271 Profit attributable to members of BHP Billiton Group 10,450 6,396 Dividends per ordinary share paid during the period US cents 32.0 23.0 Dividends per ordinary share declared in respect of the period US cents 36.0 28.0 a Earnings per ordinary share basic US cents 173.2 104.4 a Earnings per ordinary share diluted US cents 172.4 104.0 Number of ordinary shares millions At period end 5,964 6,056 Weighted average 6,035 6,124 Diluted 6,066 6,156 Consolidated Balance Sheet Total assets 48,516 41,843 Share capital 3,242 3,363 Total equity attributable to members of BHP Billiton Group 24,218 17, 5 75 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 6 1.
Key information continued Amounts in accordance with US GAAP 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June b US$M except per share data 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Consolidated Income Statement Sales revenue 32,153 26,722 22,887 15,608 13,552 Operating income 9,043 6,554 3,489 2,780 1,698 Net income total 9,783 6,388 2,716 1,581 1,249 Net income from continuing operations 9,783 6,388 2,716 1,576 1,513 Net income loss from discontinued operations 5 264 a Per ordinary share: Net income attributable to members Basic from continuing operations US cents 159.7 104.3 43.7 25.5 25.1 Diluted from continuing operations US cents 158.9 103.7 43.5 25.4 25.0 Basic from discontinued operations US cents 4.4 Diluted from discontinued operations US cents 4.4 Basic total US cents 159.7 104.3 43.7 25.5 20.7 Diluted total US cents 158.9 103.7 43.5 25.4 20.6 Per American Depositary Share ADS : Net income attributable to members Basic total US cents 319.4 208.6 87.4 51.0 41.4 Diluted total US cents 317.8 207.4 87.0 50.8 41.2 Consolidated Balance Sheet Total assets 53,317 46,861 36,675 35,001 35,795 Share capital 3,242 3,363 3,603 3,537 4,895 Total equity attributable to members of BHP Billiton Group 27,839 22,004 18,802 16,832 17,147 a The calculation of the number of ordinary shares used in the computation of basic earnings per share is the aggregate of the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited after deduction of the number of shares held by the Billiton share repurchase scheme and the Billiton Employee Share Ownership Trust, the BHP Performance Share Plan Trust and the BHP Bonus Equity Plan Trust and adjusting for the BHP Billiton Limited bonus share issue.
Included in the calculation of fully diluted earnings per share are shares and options contingently issuable under employee share ownership plans.
b On 1 July 2005, we changed our US accounting policy for pension and other post retirement benefits.
Details of the impact on the 2005-06 year, and pro forma disclosures for the 2004-05 year had the policy been applied, are set out in note 39 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures in the financial statements.
Risk factors our sales are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of those countries where our mines and processing We believe that, because of the international scope of our plants are located and also by those currencies in which the costs operations and the industries in which we are engaged, numerous of imported equipment and services are determined.
The factors have an effect on our results and operations.
The following Australian dollar, South African rand, Chilean peso, Brazilian real describes the material risks that could affect the BHP Billiton Group.
and US dollar are the most important currencies influencing our Fluctuations in commodity prices may negatively impact our operating costs.
Given the dominant role of the US currency in our results affairs, the US dollar is the currency in which the BHP Billiton Group measures its financial performance.
It is also the natural The prices we obtain for our oil, gas, minerals and other currency for borrowing and holding surplus cash.
We do not commodities are determined by, or linked to, prices in world generally believe that active currency hedging provides long-term markets, which have historically been subject to substantial benefits to our shareholders.
We may consider currency protection variations because of fluctuations in supply and demand.
measures appropriate in specific commercial circumstances, The influence of hedge and other financial investment funds subject to strict limits established by our Boards.
Therefore, in any participating in commodity markets has increased in recent years particular year, currency fluctuations may have a significant impact contributing to higher levels of price volatility.
We expect that on our financial results.
volatility in prices for most of our commodities will continue for the foreseeable future.
This volatility creates the risk that our Failure to discover new reserves or enhance existing reserves operating results will be materially and adversely affected by could negatively affect our results and financial condition unforeseen declines in the prevailing prices of our products.
Because most of our revenues and profits are related to our oil, Our profits may be negatively affected by currency exchange gas and minerals operations, our results and financial conditions are directly related to the success of our exploration efforts and rate fluctuations our ability to replace existing reserves.
A failure in our ability to Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide discover new reserves or enhance existing reserves in sufficient variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the quantities to maintain or grow the current level of our reserves countries in which we operate.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates could negatively affect our results, financial condition and of those currencies may have a significant impact on our financial prospects.
The US dollar is the currency in which the majority of 6 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 7 We may have fewer mineral, oil or gas reserves than our Land tenure disputes may negatively impact our operations estimates indicate We operate in several countries where ownership of land is Our reserves estimations may change substantially if new uncertain and where disputes may arise in relation to ownership.
Fluctuations in the These disputes cannot always be predicted and hence there is a price of commodities, variation in production costs or different risk that this may cause disruption to some of our mining projects recovery rates may ultimately result in our estimated reserves and prevent our development of new projects.
If such a revision was to indicate a substantial In Australia, the Native Title Act 1993 provides for the reduction in proven or probable reserves at one or more of our establishment and recognition of native title under certain major projects, it could negatively affect our results, financial circumstances.
Like land ownership disputes, native title could condition and prospects.
negatively affect our new or existing projects.
Health, safety and environmental exposures and related In South Africa, the Extension of Security of Tenure Act 1997 regulations may impact our operations and reputation negatively prevents evictions from taking place in the absence of a court order.
Occupiers who reside on the owners land with the requisite The nature of the industries in which we operate means that our consent of the owner, have rights to remain in occupation unless activities are highly regulated by health, safety and environmental they breach their statutory obligations as occupiers.
As regulatory standards and expectations are constantly exists for long-term occupiers to enjoy life-long tenure.
However, developing, we may be exposed to increased litigation, compliance the legislation provides for the option of provision of suitable costs and unforeseen environmental remediation expenses.
Furthermore, the Restitution of The December 1997 Kyoto Protocol established a set of greenhouse Land Rights Act 1994 permits dispossessed communities to gas emission targets for developed countries that have ratified the reclaim land, but only where such dispossession occurred after Protocol.
The European Union Emissions Trading System EU ETS, 1913 and as a consequence of a discriminatory practice or law.
which came into effect on 1 January 2005, has had an impact on Both these Acts could negatively affect new or existing projects greenhouse gas and energy intensive businesses based in the EU.
of the BHP Billiton Group.
Our Petroleum assets in the UK are currently subject to the EU ETS as are our EU based customers.
Elsewhere there is existing and Actions by governments in the countries in which we operate emerging regulation, such as the mandatory renewable energy could have a negative impact on our business target in Australia which puts the onus on power producers to Our business could be adversely affected by new government ensure that the national grid has 2 per cent renewable energy by regulation such as controls on imports, exports and prices, new the year 2020 that will affect energy prices.
From a medium and forms or rates of taxation and royalties.
long-term perspective, we are likely to see changes in the margins In South Africa, the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development of our greenhouse gas intensive assets and energy intensive assets Act 2002 MPRDA came into effect on 1 May 2004.
The law as a result of regulatory impacts in the countries where we provides for the conversion of existing mining rights so called Old operate.
These regulatory mechanisms may be either voluntary or Order Rights to rights under the new regime New Order Rights legislated and may impact our operations directly or indirectly via subject to certain undertakings to be made by the company our customers.
Inconsistency of regulations may also change the applying for such conversion.
These new rights will also be subject attractiveness of the locations of some of our assets.
Assessments to revised state royalties in the case of certain minerals, but this is of the potential impact of future climate change regulation are only expected to be introduced in 2009.
The MPRDA also required uncertain given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in the development of a Broad Based Socio Economic Empowerment the 25 or more countries where we operate.
BBSEE Charter, known as the Mining Charter, for the mining The European Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of industry with the objectives of expanding opportunities, skills, Chemicals REACH system is anticipated to commence operation in ownership and employment for historically disadvantaged South the first half of 2007.
REACH will require manufacturers, importers Africans.
The Mining Charter requires that mining companies and downstream users of chemical substances, including metals achieve 15 per cent ownership by historically disadvantaged South and minerals, to establish that the substances can be used without Africans of South African mining assets within five years and negatively affecting health or the environment.
The draft 26 per cent ownership within 10 years.
If we are unable to convert legislation, which is currently undergoing review as it proceeds our South African mining rights in accordance with the MPRDA through the European Parliament for potential enactment, and the Mining Charter, we could lose some of those rights.
We contemplates a registration and authorisation process for identified also could be adversely affected by regulatory inquiries into our uses of products.
The extent to which our operations and customers business practices.
are affected by these changes will not be clear until the final form of the regulations is determined.
These potential compliance costs, Additional risks associated with emerging markets may negatively litigation expenses, regulatory delays, remediation expenses and impact some of our operations operational costs could negatively affect our financial results.
We operate in emerging markets, which may involve additional Our operational processes and geographic locations may be risks that could have an adverse impact upon the profitability subject to operational accidents or natural catastrophes such as of an operation.
These risks could include terrorism, civil unrest, earthquakes, hurricanes and tsunamis.
nationalisation, renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts, leases, permits or other agreements, and changes in laws and We may continue to be exposed to increased operational costs due policy as well as other unforeseeable risks.
If one or more of these to the costs and lost workers time associated with the HIV AIDS risks occurs at one of our major projects, it could have a negative infection rate of our southern African workforce.
effect on our operating results or financial condition.
Because we operate globally, we may be affected by potential We may not be able to successfully integrate our acquired avian flu outbreaks in any of the regions in which we operate.
businesses The effects of avian flu may manifest themselves directly on employees, offices and operation or indirectly on customers and We have grown our business in part through acquisitions.
that some of our future growth will stem from acquisitions.
There are numerous risks encountered in business combinations and we Despite our best efforts and best intentions, there remains a risk may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses or that health, safety and or environmental incidents or accidents generate the cost savings and synergies anticipated, which could may occur that may negatively impact our reputation and freedom negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Key information continued We may not recover our investments in exploration and new Forward looking statements mining and oil and gas projects This Annual Report contains forward looking statements, There is a risk that we will not be able to recover the funds we including statements regarding: spend identifying new mining and oil and gas properties through estimated reserves our exploration program.
Increasing requirements relating to trends in commodity prices regulatory, environmental and social approvals can potentially demand for commodities result in significant delays in construction and may adversely plans, strategies and objectives of management impact upon the economics of new mining and oil and gas closure or divestment of certain operations or facilities properties, the expansion of existing operations and our results including associated costs of operations.
anticipated production or construction commencement dates Our non-controlled assets may not comply with our standards expected costs or production output Some of our assets are controlled and managed by joint venture the anticipated productive lives of projects, mines and facilities partners or by other companies.
Management of our nonprovisions and contingent liabilities.
controlled assets may not comply with the BHP Billiton Groups Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of health, safety, environment and other standards, controls and terminology such as intend, aim, project, anticipate, procedures.
Failure to adopt equivalent standards, controls and estimate, plan, believes, expects, may, should, will, procedures at these assets could lead to higher costs and reduced continue or similar words.
These statements discuss future production and adversely impact our results and reputation.
expectations concerning the results of operations or financial Increased reliance upon the Chinese market may negatively condition or provide other forward looking statements.
impact our results in the event of a slowdown in consumption These forward looking statements are not guarantees or The Chinese market has become a significant source of global predictions of future performance and involve known and demand for commodities.
China now represents in excess of unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which 41 per cent of global seaborne iron ore demand, 22 per cent of are beyond our control and which may cause actual results to copper, 22 per cent of aluminum and 16 per cent of nickel demand.
differ materially from those expressed in the statements contained Chinas demand for these commodities has more than doubled in in this Annual Report.
the last five years, but this demand is expected to moderate as the For example, our future revenues from our operations, projects or government pursues measures to reduce economic overheating mines described in this Annual Report will be based, in part, upon and to increase capital efficiency.
the market price of the minerals, metals or petroleum produced, Whilst this increase represents a significant business opportunity, which may vary significantly from current levels.
These variations, our exposure to Chinas economic fortunes and economic policies if materially adverse, may affect the timing or the feasibility of the has increased.
Sales into China generated US$6.6 billion or development of a particular project or the expansion of certain 16.8 per cent of revenue, including our share of jointly controlled facilities or mines.
Other factors that may affect the actual entities revenue in the year ended 30 June 2006. construction or production commencement dates, costs or production output and anticipated lives of operations, mines or In recent times we have seen a synchronised global recovery, facilities include our ability to profitably produce and transport the resulting in upward movement in commodity prices driven partly minerals, petroleum and or metals extracted to applicable markets: by Chinas demand.
This synchronised demand has introduced the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the market prices increased volatility in BHP Billitons commodity portfolio.
Whilst of the minerals, petroleum or metals we produce: activities of this synchronised demand has, in recent periods, resulted in higher government authorities in some of the countries where we are prices for the commodities we produce, if Chinas economic growth exploring or developing these projects, facilities or mines, slows, it could result in lower prices for our products and therefore including increases in taxes, changes in environmental and other reduce our revenues.
regulations and political uncertainty: and other factors identified in Inflationary pressures and shortages of skilled personnel could the description of the risk factors above.
We cannot assure you negatively impact our operations and expansion plans that our estimated economically recoverable reserve figures, closure or divestment of such operations or facilities including The strong commodity cycle and large numbers of projects being associated costs, actual production or commencement dates, cost developed in the resources industry led to increased demand for or production output or anticipated lives of the projects, mines and skilled personnel, contractors, materials and supplies and facilities discussed in this Annual Report will not differ materially increased demands from governments.
This has led, and could from the statements contained in this Annual Report.
Except as continue to lead to, increased capital and operating costs and required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group does not difficulties in developing, acquiring and retaining skilled personnel, undertake any obligation to publicly update or review any forward which may in turn adversely affect the development of new looking statements, whether as a result of new information or projects, the expansion of existing operations, the results of those future events.
operations and our financial condition and prospects.
Information on the Company Contents page History and development of BHP Billiton 11 Business overview 12 Petroleum Customer Sector Group 12 Aluminium Customer Sector Group 18 Base Metals Customer Sector Group 22 Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group 26 Diamonds and Specialty Products Customer Sector Group 31 Energy Coal Customer Sector Group 33 Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group 36 Production 39 Petroleum 39 Minerals 40 Marketing 44 Minerals exploration 44 Technology 45 Government regulations 45 Health, Safety, Environment and Community 46 Employees 49 Organisational structure 50 Petroleum reserves 51 Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves 53 Aluminium Customer Sector Group 54 Base Metals Customer Sector Group 56 Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group 60 Diamonds and Specialty Products Customer Sector Group 70 Energy Coal Customer Sector Group 72 Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group 74 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 9 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 10 10 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006
