5041 BHPB AR06 Pt2 13 9 06 10:11 PM Page 206 Notes to Financial Statements continued 28 Financial instruments continued Credit risk Industry Credit risk is the risk that would be incurred as a result of nonIn line with our asset portfolio, the BHP Billiton Group sells into a performance by counterparties of their contractual obligations diverse range of industries and customer sectors.
This diversity means towards the BHP Billiton Group.
that the BHP Billiton Group is not materially exposed to any individual industry or customer.
To manage the risk the BHP Billiton Group maintains group-wide procedures covering the application for credit approvals, granting Management of financial risks and renewal of counterparty limits and daily monitoring of exposures Currency risks against these limits.
As part of these processes the financial viability of all counterparties is regularly monitored and assessed.
Capital expenditure hedging The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that BHP Billiton Groups credit risk exposure can be categorised under are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity the following headings: in the hedging reserve, together with gains and losses recorded on the Counterparties hedged capital expenditure item.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The BHP Billiton Group conducts transactions with the following major types of counterparties: When the capital expenditure occurs and a non-financial asset such as plant and equipment is recognised, associated amounts previously Receivables counterparties recognised in equity are included in the measurement of the initial The majority of sales to BHP Billiton Group customers are made cost of the asset.
The anticipated maturity of capital expenditure on open terms.
hedges is outlined in the forward exchange contract tables.
Amounts Payment guarantee counterparties capitalised into property, plant and equipment will be recognised in A proportion of sales to BHP Billiton Group customers occur via the income statement in accordance with the depreciation profile of secured payment mechanisms.
the relevant asset, as described in note 1.
Hedge counterparties Operational foreign currency risk management Counterparties to derivatives hedging contracts covering Derivatives used to manage short-term foreign currency cash flows commodity and financial price risk consist of a diverse number and non-US dollar exposures in marketing contracts do not qualify of financial institutions and physical participants in the relevant for hedge accounting.
Accordingly, changes in the fair value are markets.
recognised in the income statement.
Cash investment counterparties As part of managing cash flow and liquidity, the BHP Billiton Group Interest rate risk holds short term cash investments with a range of financial Changes in the fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency institutions.
interest rate swaps are recognised immediately in the income The BHP Billiton Group has no significant concentration of credit risk statement.
with any single counterparty or a group of counterparties.
Geographic The BHP Billiton Group trades in all major geographic regions.
Countries in which the BHP Billiton Group has a significant credit exposure include South Africa, Australia, the US, Japan and China.
Where appropriate, secured payment mechanisms and other risk mitigation instruments are utilised to protect revenues from credit risk losses.
29 Contingent liabilities 2006 2005 US$M US$M Contingent liabilities at balance date, not otherwise provided for in the financial report, are categorised as arising from: Jointly controlled entities a Other 355 136 355 136 Subsidiaries and jointly controlled assets including guarantees b Performance guarantees 1 1 a Other 220 123 221 124 Total contingent liabilities 576 260 a Other contingent liabilities relate predominantly to actual or potential litigation of the Group for which amounts are reasonably estimable but the liability is not probable and therefore the Group has not provided for such amounts in these financial statements.
The amounts relate to a number of actions against the Group, none of which are individually significant.
Additionally, there are a number of legal claims or potential claims against the Group, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at present, and for which no amounts have been included in the table above.
b The BHP Billiton Group has entered into various counter-indemnities of bank and performance guarantees related to its own future performance in the normal course of business.
c For US GAAP reporting purposes, the Group is also required to include as contingent liabilities amounts where 1 provisions have been made in the accounts but further amounts are reasonably possible and 2 additional amounts to the guarantees included above where the probability of a transfer of economic benefits is considered to be remote.
Not included in the table above are Group performance guarantees of US$nil million 2005: US$30 million and US$318 million 2005: US$349 million relating to other contingent liabilities for which provisions have been included in the Group accounts.
