4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 11 09 06 10:51 AM Page 14 The BHP Billiton way When it comes to applying the best possible solutions to common problems and gaining the economies of scale so essential to a Company as large as ours, sharing knowledge, expertise and ideas across our operations is vital.
With more than 100 operations and offices spanning 25 countries around the globe, that requires good communication, shared values and common goals.
At BHP Billiton, we have developed a series of best practice processes that govern the way we work at all of our operations and offices worldwide, be it a copper mine in Chile, an aluminium smelter in southern Africa or a metropolitan office in Australia.
These processes extend to policies such as our Zero Harm and Business Excellence policies, as well as to the processes we employ when undertaking investment approvals, the way we manage our people and how we work with our customers.
Knowledge-sharing networks help to identify and disseminate successful practices across every part of the Company.
This culture of information-sharing ensures that all parts of the Company can benefit from the lessons learned and experience gained by our vast network of colleagues around the globe.
Serge Nitiema Project Leader Democratic Republic of Congo DRC The difficult circumstances and environments often faced by exploration teams in Africa have been no match for Serges can do attitude.
Originally from Burkina Faso, Serge has led the discovery of a number of strategic mineral deposits for BHP Billiton and his teams achieve consistently strong HSEC performance.
Corporate Centre, Santiago Marketing Office, The Hague Marketing Office, Beijing Angostura, Trinidad and Tobago Forward thinking But our EKATI supply team had planned ahead.
EKATI prepared for a shorter The 500 kilometre Tibbitt to Contwoyto duration winter road by expediting supplies winter road is the essential lifeline of the and equipment to Yellowknife in advance diamond industry in Arctic Canada.
It of the road opening, so these materials carries the highest volume of traffic and were ready to haul as light loads as soon freight of any ice road in the world, but as the road was available.
Thanks to their provides only a 10-week window each understanding of local conditions and winter for mines operating in Canadas forward thinking, all critical supplies were Northwest Territories and Nunavut received and adverse business impacts diamond fields to transport as much freight were successfully mitigated when the as possible.
In 2006, unusually poor ice premature closure of the road occurred.
conditions meant that the road was late opening and then shut down early, significantly impacting many of the regions mines.
14 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 08 09 06 2:19 PM Page 15 Innovative solutions Cabrillo Port is our innovative proposal to meeting Californias growing energy needs.
It will be a floating regasification and storage unit positioned at a distant offshore location, which will receive liquefied natural gas LNG from specially designed tankers and then convert the LNG into natural gas for sale through the existing onshore natural gas system.
Cabrillo Port is a safe, secure and environmentally benign solution capable of meeting more than 10 per cent of Californias current daily natural gas need.
Continuous improvement From the beginning of its operations, Minera Escondida, the worlds largest copper mine, has not stopped growing.
After the successful completion of seven major expansion projects, Escondida, operated by BHP Billiton and located in Chiles Atacama Desert, has gone from producing 320,000 tonnes per year to 1.3 million tonnes per year.
Behind this growth is a decision taken during the first Corporate Centre, London months of operation 15 years ago to continuously add value through superior performance in safety, production and Advancing technology unit costs, ensuring its place for many more The Orion Operations group was formed years as the worlds largest single copper during the year to manage the deployment producer.
The application of continuous of BHP Billitons exclusive exploration improvement programs, business risk technologies FALCON, GEOFERRET management and control, and business and SOLIDEARTH.
Orion Operations cost controls have been crucial to our is involved in projects in both established success.
areas and new areas in emerging countries where its technologies are used to gain a competitive advantage.
Our FALCON technology was key to our ability to negotiate joint ventures to explore for copper and coal in Mongolia and we concluded agreements with three companies that hold licences in the South Gobi region.
One of our FALCON systems successfully completed over 60,000 km of survey flying over winter in the Gobi Desert.
These surveys have greatly increased the speed at which BHP Billiton can explore this difficult terrain.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 15 we see nickel and aluminium: matt is visualising the, presentation hes about to give at his 8.30am meeting... 4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 12 9 06 3:00 AM Page 16 Diversified across products, markets and regions, our asset base provides relatively stable cash flows regardless of variations and risks in areas such as commodity prices, currency exchange rates and geopolitical conditions.
This affords us the certainty to fund our long-term business plan, the ability to develop projects to meet demand and the scope to make opportunistic and counter-cyclical investments.
It is a foundation further strengthened by our strong A credit rating and the low-cost position of our asset portfolio.
Our investment approvals process targets investments that are aligned with our own values, priorities, strategies and policies.
Investments must have a high probability of success and must be capable of achieving optimal shareholder value with an acceptable degree of risk.
Our goal is to invest in opportunities that achieve returns in excess of the cost of capital.
Our capital management priorities are to reinvest in projects with attractive rates of return, ensure a solid balance sheet, and return capital to shareholders.
We maintained our progressive dividend policy with an increase of 29 per cent over the previous financial year, bringing the 2006 dividend payment to 36 cents per share.
We announced a further return to shareholders of US$5.0 billion through a combination of off and on-market share buy-backs.
Corporate Centre, London Nickel West, Australia Robin Bordie Economist, China Robin Bordie has been working with BHP Billiton since 2004.
She has extensive experience in econometrics and economics research, and an in-depth understanding of the Chinese economy and the developmental issues relating to Chinas growth.
With more than 20 years professional work experience, Robin brings to us the invaluable ability to analyse the complex economic situation and rapid changes in China our largest single-country market.
16 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 we see inside to the wiring and components made from copper and gold, but john is busy reading an email from a colleague in australia... 4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 08 09 06 2:19 PM Page 17 Financial strength and discipline Cannington, Australia BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 17
