5041 BHPB AR06 Pt2 13 9 06 10:11 PM Page 155 Notes to Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies Dual Listed Companies structure and basis of preparation of The full financial statements of BHP Billiton Limited single parent financial statements entity are available on the Companys website www.
com and are available to shareholders on request, free of charge.
Merger terms Basis of preparation On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Plc previously known as Billiton Plc, a UK listed company, and BHP Billiton Limited previously known as This general purpose financial report for the year ended 30 June 2006 BHP Limited, an Australian listed company, entered into a Dual Listed has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK Companies DLC merger.
This was effected by contractual Companies Act 1985 and Australian Corporations Act 2001 and with: arrangements between the Companies and amendments to their Australian equivalents to International Financial Reporting constitutional documents.
Standards as issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board AASB and interpretations effective as of 30 June 2006 The effect of the DLC merger is that BHP Billiton Plc and its subsidiaries the BHP Billiton Plc Group and BHP Billiton Limited and International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as its subsidiaries the BHP Billiton Limited Group operate together as a adopted by the European Union EU as of 30 June 2006 single economic entity the BHP Billiton Group, with neither assuming those standards and interpretations adopted early as described a dominant role.
Under the arrangements: below the shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have a The above standards and interpretations are collectively referred common economic interest in both Groups: to as IFRS in this report.
the shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited take key The comparative information has also been prepared on this basis, decisions, including the election of Directors, through a joint with the exception of certain items, details of which are given below, electoral procedure under which the shareholders of the two for which comparative information has not been restated.
Companies effectively vote on a joint basis: BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have a common Board of This is the BHP Billiton Groups first IFRS annual financial report.
The Directors, a unified management structure and joint objectives: basis of preparation is different to that of the most recent comparative dividends and capital distributions made by the two Companies are years annual financial report due to the first time adoption of IFRS.
equalised: and An explanation of how the transition to IFRS has affected the reported financial position and financial performance of the BHP Billiton Group BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited each executed a deed poll is provided in note 38.
This note includes reconciliations of equity and guarantee, guaranteeing subject to certain exceptions the profit for comparative periods previously reported under UK GAAP contractual obligations whether actual or contingent, primary or and Australian GAAP to those amounts reported under IFRS.
secondary of the other incurred after 29 June 2001 together with specified obligations existing at that date.
A reconciliation of the major differences between the financial information prepared under IFRS compared to US GAAP is included If either BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited proposes to pay a in note 39. dividend to its shareholders, then the other Company must pay a matching cash dividend of an equivalent amount per share to its This financial report has been prepared on the basis of IFRS in issue shareholders.
If either Company is prohibited by law or is otherwise that are effective, or except as described below, available for early unable to declare, pay or otherwise make all or any portion of such adoption at the BHP Billiton Groups first IFRS annual reporting date a matching dividend, then BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited will, of 30 June 2006.
Except as noted below, the BHP Billiton Group has so far as it is practicable to do so, enter into such transactions with elected to early adopt all Australian Accounting Standards, IFRS as each other as the Boards agree to be necessary or desirable so as to adopted by the EU and interpretations that have commencement enable both Companies to pay dividends as nearly as practicable at dates later than the BHP Billiton Groups IFRS transition date of the same time.
1 July 2004 and which permit early adoption.
The decision to early adopt those standards and interpretations ensures that policy The DLC merger did not involve the change of legal ownership of elections described below, including IFRS transition exemptions, any assets of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited, any change are available.
The principal standards and interpretations that have of ownership of any existing shares or securities of BHP Billiton Plc been early adopted are: or BHP Billiton Limited, the issue of any shares or securities or any payment by way of consideration, save for the issue by each Company IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources of one special voting share to a trustee company which is the means revised IAS 19 AASB 119 Employee Benefits by which the joint electoral procedure is operated.
In addition, to International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC achieve a position where the economic and voting interests of one pronouncement 5 Urgent Issues Group UIG Interpretation 5 share in BHP Billiton Plc and one share in BHP Billiton Limited were Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and identical, BHP Billiton Limited made a bonus issue of ordinary shares Environmental Rehabilitation Funds to the holders of its ordinary shares.
The BHP Billiton Group did not early adopt IFRS 7 AASB 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Treatment of the DLC merger for accounting purposes Arrangement Contains a Lease.
The potential impact had the The basis of accounting for the DLC merger was established under standards been adopted early has not been determined.
Australian and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP, IFRS 1 AASB 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial pursuant to the requirements of the Australian Securities and Reporting Standards, which governs the first time adoption of IFRS, Investments Commission ASIC Practice Note 71 Financial Reporting in general requires accounting policies to be applied retrospectively to by Australian Entities in Dual-Listed Company Arrangements, an order determine the opening balance sheet at the BHP Billiton Groups IFRS issued by ASIC under section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 on transition date of 1 July 2004, and allows certain exemptions on the 2 September 2002, and in accordance with the UK Companies Act transition to IFRS, which the BHP Billiton Group has elected to apply.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 AASB 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, Those elections considered significant to the BHP Billiton Group the same basis of accounting is applied under International Financial include decisions to: Reporting Standards.
Accordingly, this annual financial report presents not restate previous mergers or acquisitions and the accounting the merged BHP Billiton Group as follows: thereof Results for the years ended 30 June 2006 and 30 June 2005 are of measure property, plant and equipment at deemed cost, being the the combined merged entity comprising the BHP Billiton Plc Group carrying value of property, plant and equipment immediately prior and the BHP Billiton Limited Group: to the date of transition, with no adjustment made to fair value Assets and liabilities of the BHP Billiton Plc Group and the BHP not apply the recognition and measurement requirements of Billiton Limited Group were combined at the date of the merger IFRS 2 AASB 2 Share-based Payment to equity instruments at their existing carrying amounts: granted before 7 November 2002 Financial statements of the BHP Billiton Limited single parent entity recognise the cumulative effect of actuarial gains and losses on are presented in note 40 to the financial statements.
Financial defined benefit employee schemes in retained earnings as at the statements of the BHP Billiton Plc single parent entity are presented transition date on page 241 of the Annual Report.
transfer all foreign currency translation differences, previously held in reserves, to retained earnings at the transition date BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 155 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt2 13 9 06 10:11 PM Page 156 Notes to Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued In addition, as described below, BHP Billiton has applied the increase of US$634 million, and borrowings: increase of US$411 million.
exemption available under IFRS 1 AASB 1 whereby International The net impact on other balance sheet items was a debit of Accounting Standard IAS 32 AASB 132 Financial Instruments: US$3 million.
Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 AASB 139 Financial Principles of consolidation Instruments: Recognition and Measurement have been applied from 1 July 2005 and not for the year ended 30 June 2005.
The financial report of the BHP Billiton Group includes the consolidation of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their Basis of measurement respective subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by either The financial report is drawn up on the basis of historical cost parent entity.
Control exists where either parent entity has the power principles, except for derivative financial instruments and investments to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to held for trading or available for sale, which are measured at fair value.
obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial report from the date control commences until Currency of presentation the date control ceases.
Where the BHP Billiton Groups interest is less than 100 per cent, the interest attributable to outside shareholders is All amounts are expressed in millions of US dollars, unless otherwise reflected in minority interests.
The effects of all transactions between stated, consistent with the predominant functional currency of the entities within the BHP Billiton Group have been eliminated.
Joint ventures Change in accounting policy The BHP Billiton Group undertakes a number of business activities The accounting policies have been consistently applied by all entities through joint ventures.
Joint ventures are established through included in the BHP Billiton Group consolidated financial report and contractual arrangements that require the unanimous consent of are consistent with those applied in the prior year, except for: each of the venturers regarding the strategic financial and operating Financial instruments policies of the venture joint control.
The BHP Billiton Groups joint ventures are of two types: In the current year, the Group adopted IAS 32 AASB 132 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 AASB 139 Jointly controlled entities Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement from 1 July A jointly controlled entity is a corporation, partnership or other entity 2005.
Prior to 1 July 2005, the principal accounting policies affecting in which each participant holds an interest.
A jointly controlled entity financial instruments were as follows: operates in the same way as other entities, controlling the assets of Available for sale investments were classified as fixed asset the joint venture, earning its own income and incurring its own investments and, other than for joint ventures and associates, were liabilities and expenses.
Interests in jointly controlled entities are stated individually at cost less provisions for impairment.
accounted for using the equity method and are carried at the lower Trading investments were classified as current asset investments of the equity accounted amount and recoverable amount.
The share and valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In of jointly controlled entities net profit or loss is recognised in the determining net realisable values, market values were used in the income statement from the date that joint control commences until case of listed investments and Directors estimates were used in the date at which it ceases.
Movements in reserves are recognised the case of unlisted investments.
in the BHP Billiton Groups reserves.
Derivative financial instruments were accounted for using Australian GAAP and UK GAAP hedge accounting principles whereby Jointly controlled assets and operations derivatives were matched to specifically identified commercial risks The BHP Billiton Group has certain contractual arrangements with being hedged.
These matching principles were applied using accrual other participants to engage in joint activities that do not give rise accounting methods to both realised and unrealised transactions.
These arrangements involve the joint Derivatives undertaken as hedges of anticipated transactions were ownership of assets dedicated to the purposes of each venture.
These recognised when such transactions were recognised.
Upon contractual arrangements do not create a jointly controlled entity due recognition of the underlying transaction, derivatives were valued to the fact that the joint venture operates under the policies of the at the appropriate market spot rate.
When an underlying transaction venturers that directly derive the benefits of operation of their jointly could no longer be identified, gains or losses on a derivative owned assets, rather than deriving returns from an interest in a previously designated as a hedge of that transaction were taken separate entity.
to the income statement, whether or not the derivative was terminated.
When a hedge was terminated, the deferred gain or The financial report of the BHP Billiton Group includes its share of the loss that arose prior to termination was: assets in such joint ventures, together with the liabilities, revenues and expenses arising jointly or otherwise from those operations.
All a deferred and included in the measurement of the anticipated such amounts are measured in accordance with the terms of each transaction when it occurred: or arrangement, which are usually in proportion to the BHP Billiton b taken to the income statement when the anticipated transaction Groups interest in the jointly controlled assets.
was no longer expected to occur.
The premiums paid on interest rate options and foreign currency Intangible assets and goodwill put and call options were included in debtors and were deferred Amounts paid for the acquisition of identifiable intangible assets, and included in the settlement of the underlying transaction.
such as patents, trademarks and licences, are capitalised at the fair The adoption of IAS 32 AASB 132 Financial Instruments: Disclosure value of consideration paid and are recorded at cost less accumulated and Presentation and IAS 39 AASB 139 Financial Instruments: amortisation and impairment charges.
Identifiable intangible assets Recognition and Measurement has resulted in the Group recognising with a finite life are amortised on a straight-line basis over their available for sale investments and all derivative financial instruments expected useful life, which is typically no greater than eight years.
as assets or liabilities at fair value.
Accordingly, transitional The BHP Billiton Group has no identifiable intangible assets for which adjustments in respect of IAS 32 AASB 132 and IAS 39 AASB 139 have the expected useful life is indefinite.
been recorded in the opening balance sheet and against retained Where the fair value of the consideration paid for a business profits and reserves, as applicable, at 1 July 2005. acquisition exceeds the fair value of the identifiable assets and As a consequence of adopting IAS 32 AASB 132 and IAS 39 AASB 139 liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as goodwill.
Goodwill is at 1 July 2005, equity attributable to BHP Billiton Group shareholders not amortised, however the carrying amount of all goodwill and increased US$201 million as set out in the consolidated statement of identifiable intangible assets with an indefinite useful life is assessed recognised income and expense.
This was net of consequential annually against its recoverable amount as explained below under increases in deferred tax liabilities of US$37 million.
This represents Impairment of non-current assets.
the net gain on measuring at fair value qualifying hedges, embedded derivatives, available for sale investments and certain derivatives that do not qualify as hedges, which were not recognised on a fair value basis prior to 1 July 2005.
The major balance sheet items affected were financial assets: increase of US$1,279 million, financial liabilities: 156 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt2 13 9 06 10:11 PM Page 157 1 Accounting policies continued On the subsequent disposal or termination of a previously acquired In the majority of sales for most commodities, sales agreements business, any remaining balance of associated goodwill and specify that title passes on the bill of lading date, which is the date identifiable intangible assets is included in the determination of the the commodity is delivered to the shipping agent.
Revenue is profit or loss on disposal or termination.
recognised on the bill of lading date.
For certain sales principally coal sales to adjoining power stations and diamond sales, title passes and Foreign currencies revenue is recognised when the goods have been delivered.
The BHP Billiton Groups reporting currency and the functional currency In cases where the terms of the executed sales agreement allow for of the majority of its operations is the US dollar as this is the principal an adjustment to the sales price based on a survey of the goods by currency of the economic environments in which they operate.
the customer for instance an assay for mineral content, recognition of the sales revenue is based on the most recently determined Transactions denominated in foreign currencies currencies other estimate of product specifications.
than the functional currency of an operation are recorded using the exchange rate ruling at the date of the underlying transaction.
In the case of certain exchange traded commodities, the sales price is Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are determined on a provisional basis at the date of sale: adjustments to translated using the rate of exchange ruling at year end and the gains the sales price occurs based on movements in quoted market prices or losses on retranslation are included in the income statement, with up to the date of final pricing.
The period between provisional the exception of foreign exchange gains or losses on foreign currency invoicing and final pricing is typically between 60 and 120 days.
provisions for site restoration and rehabilitation, which are capitalised Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based on the in property, plant and equipment, and foreign exchange gains and estimated fair value of the total consideration receivable.
The revenue losses on foreign currency borrowings designated as a hedge of the adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales net assets of foreign operations.
arrangements has the character of a commodity derivative.
Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales price adjustment is The income statement of subsidiaries and joint ventures that have re-estimated continuously and changes in fair value recognised as functional currencies other than US dollars are translated to US dollars an adjustment to revenue.
In all cases, fair value is estimated by at the date of each transaction.
Assets and liabilities are translated at reference to forward market prices.
exchange rates prevailing at the year end.
Exchange variations resulting from the retranslation at closing rate of the net investment Revenue is not reduced for royalties and other taxes payable from in such subsidiaries and joint ventures, together with differences production.
between their income statement translated at actual and closing The BHP Billiton Group separately discloses sales of Group production rates, are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
from sales of third party products due to the significant difference in For the purpose of foreign currency translation, the net investment profit margin earned on these sales.
in a foreign operation is determined inclusive of foreign currency intercompany balances for which settlement is neither planned nor Exploration and evaluation expenditure likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
The balance of the foreign currency translation reserve relating to a foreign operation that is Exploration and evaluation activity involves the search for mineral disposed of, or partially disposed of, is recognised in the income and petroleum resources, the determination of technical feasibility statement at the time of disposal.
and the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource.
Exploration and evaluation activity includes: Share-based payments researching and analysing historical exploration data For share-based payments, the fair value at grant date of equity gathering exploration data through topographical, geochemical settled share awards made by the BHP Billiton Group is charged to the and geophysical studies income statement over the period for which the benefits of employee exploratory drilling, trenching and sampling services are expected to be derived.
The corresponding accrued determining and examining the volume and grade of the resource employee entitlement is recorded in the Employee Share Awards surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements reserve.
The fair value of awards is calculated using an option pricing conducting market and finance studies model which considers the following factors: exercise price Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific expected life of the award exploration area are charged to the income statement.
Licence costs paid in connection with a right to explore in an existing exploration current market price of the underlying shares area are capitalised and amortised over the term of the permit.
expected volatility expected dividends Exploration and evaluation expenditure including amortisation of capitalised licence costs is charged to the income statement as risk-free interest rate incurred except in the following circumstances, in which case the market-based performance hurdles expenditure is capitalised: Where awards are forfeited because non-market based vesting In respect of minerals activities: conditions are not satisfied, the expense previously recognised is the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area of interest proportionately reversed.
Where BHP Billiton Group shares are which was previously acquired in a business combination and acquired by on-market purchases prior to settling vested entitlements, measured at fair value on acquisition, or where a final feasibility the cost of the acquired shares is carried as treasury shares and study has been completed indicating the existence of commercially deducted from equity.
When awards are satisfied by delivery of recoverable reserves.
acquired shares, any difference between their acquisition cost and the remuneration expense recognised is charged directly to retained In respect of petroleum activities: earnings.
The tax effect of awards granted is recognised in income the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area of interest tax expense, except to the extent that the total tax deductions are for which it is expected that the expenditure will be recouped by expected to exceed the cumulative remuneration expense.
In this future exploitation or sale: or situation, the excess of the associated current or deferred tax is at the balance sheet date, exploration and evaluation activity has recognised in equity as part of the employee share awards reserve.
not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the Sales revenue existence of commercially recoverable reserves.
Revenue from the sale of goods and disposal of other assets is Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is recorded as a recognised when persuasive evidence, usually in the form of an component of property, plant and equipment at cost less impairment executed sales agreement, of an arrangement exists, indicating there charges.
As the asset is not available for use, it is not depreciated.
has been a transfer of risks and rewards to the customer, no further All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is monitored for work or processing is required by the BHP Billiton Group, the quantity indications of impairment.
Where a potential impairment is indicated, and quality of the goods has been determined with reasonable assessment is performed for each area of interest in conjunction with accuracy, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is the group of operating assets representing a cash generating unit reasonably assured.
This is generally when title passes.
CGU to which the exploration is attributed.
Exploration areas at BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 157 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt2 13 9 06 10:11 PM Page 158 Notes to Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued which reserves have been discovered but that require major capital The corresponding finance lease obligation is included within interest expenditure before production can begin are continually evaluated to bearing liabilities.
The interest element is allocated to accounting ensure that commercial quantities of reserves exist or to ensure that periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on additional exploration work is underway or planned.
To the extent that the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
capitalised expenditure is not expected to be recovered it is charged Operating lease assets are not capitalised and rental payments are to the income statement.
included in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Provision is made for the present value of future operating Development expenditure lease payments in relation to surplus lease space when it is first When proved reserves are determined and development is sanctioned, determined that the space will be of no probable future benefit.
capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is reclassified as Operating lease incentives are recognised as a liability when received Assets under construction, and is disclosed as a component of and subsequently reduced by allocating lease payments between property, plant and equipment.
Development expenditure for both rental expense and reduction of the liability on a straight-line basis.
minerals and petroleum activities is capitalised and classified as assets under construction.
As the asset is not available for use, it is not Impairment of non-current assets depreciated.
On completion of development, any capitalised exploration Formal impairment tests are carried out annually for goodwill, and evaluation expenditure, together with the subsequent development indefinite life intangible assets and intangible assets not yet available expenditure, is classified as either property, plant and equipment or for use.
Formal impairment tests for all other assets are performed other mineral assets and amortised on a unit of production basis.
when there is an indication of impairment.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indications of Property, plant and equipment impairment.
The BHP Billiton Group conducts annually an internal Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated review of asset values which is used as a source of information to depreciation and impairment charges.
assess for any indications of impairment.
External factors, such as changes in expected future processes, costs and other market factors Disposals are also monitored to assess for indications of impairment.
If any Disposals are taken to account in the income statement.
Where the indication of impairment exists an estimate of the assets recoverable disposal involves the sale or abandonment of a significant business amount is calculated.
The recoverable amount is determined as the or all of the assets associated with such a business the gain or loss higher of the fair value less costs to sell for the asset and the assets is treated as an exceptional item.
If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, Mineral rights the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the income Acquired mineral rights are capitalised and classified as other mineral statement so as to reduce the carrying amount in the balance sheet to assets and depreciated from commencement of production on a unit its recoverable amount.
of production basis over the estimated life of the asset.
Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained from The BHP Billiton Groups mineral leases are of sufficient duration the sale of the asset in an arms length transaction between or convey a legal right to renew for sufficient duration to enable all knowledgeable and willing parties.
Direct costs of selling the asset declared reserves on the leased properties to be mined in accordance are deducted.
Fair value for mineral assets is generally determined with current production schedules.
as the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset, including any expansion Depreciation of property, plant and equipment prospects, and its eventual disposal, using assumptions that a market The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment including participant could take into account.
These cash flows are discounted initial and any subsequent capital expenditure are depreciated to by an appropriate discount rate to arrive at a net present value NPV their estimated residual value over the estimated useful lives of the of the asset.
specific assets concerned, or the estimated life of the associated mine or mineral lease, if shorter.
Estimates of residual values and useful Value in use is determined as the present value of the estimated future lives are reassessed annually and any change in estimate is taken into cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset in its account in the determination of remaining depreciation charges.
The present form and its eventual disposal.
Value in use is determined by major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated applying assumptions specific to the Groups continued use and on a unit of production and or straight-line basis using estimated cannot take into account future development.
These assumptions are lives as follows: different to those used in calculating fair value and consequently the value in use calculation is likely to give a different result usually Buildings 25 to 50 years lower to a fair value calculation.
Land not depreciated Plant, machinery and equipment 4 to 30 years In testing for indications of impairment and performing impairment calculations, assets are considered as collective groups and referred Mineral rights based on the estimated life of to as cash generating units.
Cash generating units are the smallest reserves on a unit of production identifiable group of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that basis generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows Exploration, evaluation and over the life of the proved and from other assets or groups of assets.
development expenditure probable reserves on a unit of on mineral assets and production basis The impairment assessments are based on a range of estimates and other mining assets assumptions, including: Petroleum interests over the life of the proved Estimates assumptions: Basis: developed oil and gas reserves Future production Proved and probable reserves, resource on a unit of production basis estimates and, in certain cases, expansion Leasehold buildings over the life of the lease up to projects a maximum of 50 years Commodity prices Forward market and contract prices, and Vehicles 3 to 5 years straight-line longer-term price protocol estimates Capitalised leased assets up to 50 years or life of lease, Exchange rates Current forward market exchange rates whichever is shorter Discount rates Cost of capital risk adjusted for the resource concerned Leased assets Assets held under leases which result in the BHP Billiton Group receiving substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the property, plant and equipment or the estimated present value of the minimum lease payments.
158 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt2 13 9 06 10:11 PM Page 159 1 Accounting policies continued Overburden removal costs for income tax purposes, but has a deductible amount on sale or abandonment for capital gains tax purposes, that amount is included Overburden and other mine waste materials are often removed during in the determination of temporary differences.
The tax effect of certain the initial development of a mine site in order to access the mineral temporary differences is not recognised, principally with respect to deposit.
This activity is referred to as development stripping.
The goodwill: temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of directly attributable costs inclusive of an allocation of relevant assets or liabilities other than those arising in a business combination overhead expenditure are capitalised as development costs.
or in a manner that initially impacted accounting or taxable profit : Capitalisation of development stripping costs ceases, and depreciation and temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries, of those capitalised costs commences, at the time that saleable jointly controlled entities and associates to the extent that the BHP materials begin to be extracted from the mine.
Depreciation of Billiton Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary capitalised development stripping costs is determined on a unit of difference and the temporary difference is not expected to reverse production basis for each separate area of interest.
The amount of deferred tax recognised is Removal of waste material normally continues throughout the life based on the expected manner and timing of realisation or settlement of a mine.
This activity is referred to as production stripping and of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, with the exception of commences at the time that saleable materials begin to be extracted items that have a tax base solely derived under capital gains tax from the mine.
The costs of production stripping are charged to the legislation, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at period income statement as operating costs when the ratio of waste material end.
To the extent that an items tax base is solely derived from the to ore extracted for an area of interest is expected to be constant amount deductible under capital gains tax legislation, deferred tax throughout its estimated life.
When the ratio of waste to ore is not is determined as if such amounts are deductible in determining future expected to be constant, production stripping costs are accounted for assessable income.
as follows: A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable All costs are initially charged to the income statement and classified that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset as operating costs.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance When the current ratio of waste to ore is greater than the estimated sheet date and amended to the extent that it is no longer probable life-of-mine ratio, a portion of the stripping costs inclusive of an that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and allocation of relevant overhead expenditure is capitalised.
liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the In subsequent years when the ratio of waste to ore is less than the same taxation authority and the BHP Billiton Group has both the right estimated life-of-mine ratio, a portion of capitalised stripping costs and the intention to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net is charged to the income statement as operating costs.
The amount of production stripping costs capitalised or charged in Royalties and resource rent taxes are treated as taxation a financial year is determined so that the stripping expense for the arrangements when they have the characteristics of a tax.
This is financial year reflects the estimated life-of-mine ratio.
Changes to the considered to be the case when they are imposed under Government estimated life-of-mine ratio are accounted for prospectively from the authority and the amount payable is calculated by reference to date of the change.
revenue derived net of any allowable deductions after adjustment for items comprising temporary differences.
For such arrangements, Capitalised development stripping costs are classified as Plant and current and deferred tax is provided on the same basis as described equipment and capitalised production stripping costs are classified above for other forms of taxation.
Obligations arising from royalty as Other mineral assets.
These assets are considered in combination arrangements that do not satisfy these criteria are recognised as with other assets of an operation for the purpose of undertaking current provisions and included in expenses.
Provision for employee benefits Inventories stocks Provision is made in the financial statements for all employee benefits, Inventories stocks, including work in progress, are valued at the lower including on-costs.
In relation to industry-based long service leave of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined primarily on the funds, the BHP Billiton Groups liability, including obligations for basis of average costs.
For processed inventories, cost is derived on funding shortfalls, is determined after deducting the fair value of an absorption costing basis.
Cost comprises cost of purchasing raw dedicated assets of such funds.
materials and cost of production, including attributable mining and manufacturing overheads.
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary benefits, annual leave and accumulating sick leave obliged to be settled within Finance costs 12 months of the reporting date, are recognised in other creditors or Finance costs are generally expensed as incurred except where they provision for employee benefits in respect of employees services up relate to the financing of construction or development of qualifying to the reporting date and are measured at the amounts expected to assets requiring a substantial period of time to prepare for their be paid when the liabilities are settled.
Liabilities for non-accumulating intended future use.
sick leave are recognised when the leave is taken and measured at the rates paid or payable.
Finance costs are capitalised up to the date when the asset is ready for its intended use.
The amount of finance costs capitalised before The liability for long service leave for which settlement within 12 the effects of income tax for the period is determined by applying the months of the reporting date can not be deferred is recognised in the interest rate applicable to appropriate borrowings outstanding during current provision for employee benefits and is measured in accordance the period to the average amount of accumulated expenditure for the with annual leave described above.
The liability for long service leave assets during the period.
for which settlement can be deferred beyond 12 months from the reporting date is recognised in the non-current provision for employee Taxation benefits and measured as the present value of expected future Taxation on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and payments to be made in respect of services provided by employees up deferred tax.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement except to the reporting date.
Consideration is given to expected future wage to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in and salary levels, experience of employee departures and periods of which case the tax amounts are recognised in equity.
Expected future payments are discounted using market yields at the reporting date on national Government bonds with terms to Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the maturity and currency that match, as closely as possible, the year using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the year end, and estimated future cash outflows.
includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
It further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Superannuation, pensions and other post-retirement benefits Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, The BHP Billiton Group operates or participates in a number of pension providing for the tax effect of temporary differences between the including superannuation schemes throughout the world.
The funding carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting of the schemes complies with local regulations.
The assets of the purposes and the amounts used for tax assessment or deduction schemes are generally held separately from those of the BHP Billiton purposes.
Where an asset has no deductible or depreciable amount Group and are administered by trustees or management boards.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 159 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt2 13 9 06 10:11 PM Page 160 Notes to Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued For schemes of the defined contribution type or those operated restoration and rehabilitation cash flows are a normal occurrence in on an industry-wide basis where it is not possible to identify assets light of the significant judgements and estimates involved.
Factors attributable to the participation by the BHP Billiton Groups influencing those changes include revisions to estimated reserves, employees, the pension charge is calculated on the basis of resources and lives of operations: developments in technology: contributions payable.
regulatory requirements and environmental management strategies: changes in the estimated costs of anticipated activities, including the For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing pensions is charged effects of inflation and movements in foreign exchange rates: and to the income statement so as to recognise current and past service movements in interest rates affecting the discount rate applied.
costs, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, and the effect of any curtailments or settlements, net of expected returns on plan Financial instruments assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full directly in All financial assets are initially recognised at the fair value of equity.
An asset or liability is consequently recognised in the balance consideration paid.
Subsequently, financial assets are carried at fair sheet based on the present value of defined benefit obligations, less value or amortised cost less impairment charges in accordance with any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of plan assets, the requirements of IAS 39 AASB 139.
Where non-derivative financial except that any such asset can not exceed the total of unrecognised assets are carried at fair value, gains and losses on remeasurement past service costs and the present value of refunds from and are recognised directly in equity unless the financial assets have been reductions in future contributions to the plan.
designated as being held at fair value through profit, in which case Certain BHP Billiton Group companies provide post-retirement medical the gains and losses are recognised directly in the income statement.
In some cases the benefits are provided Financial assets are designated as being held at fair value through through medical care schemes to which the Group, the employees, the profit when this is necessary to reduce measurement inconsistencies retirees and covered family members contribute.
In some schemes for related assets and liabilities.
All financial liabilities other than there is no funding of the benefits before retirement.
These schemes derivatives are carried at amortised cost.
are recognised on the same basis as described above for defined Derivatives, including those embedded in other contractual benefit pension schemes.
arrangements but separated for accounting purposes because they are not clearly and closely related to the host contract, are initially Restoration and rehabilitation recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into and The mining, extraction and processing activities of the BHP Billiton are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of Group normally give rise to obligations for site restoration and recognising the resulting gain or loss on remeasurement depends on rehabilitation.
Restoration and rehabilitation works can include facility whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and, decommissioning and dismantling: removal or treatment of waste if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The measurement of fair materials: land rehabilitation: and site restoration.
The extent of work value is based on quoted market prices.
Where no price information required and the associated costs are dependent on the requirements is available from a quoted market source, alternative market of relevant authorities and the BHP Billiton Groups environmental mechanisms or recent comparable transactions, fair value is estimated policies.
based on the BHP Billiton Groups views on relevant future prices, net Provisions for the cost of each restoration and rehabilitation program of valuation allowances to accommodate liquidity, modelling and are recognised at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
other risks implicit in such estimates.
When the extent of disturbance increases over the life of an operation, The BHP Billiton Groups foreign exchange contracts held for hedging the provision is increased accordingly.
Costs included in the provision purposes are generally accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Interest encompass all restoration and rehabilitation activity expected to occur rate swaps held for hedging purposes are generally accounted for as progressively over the life of the operation and at the time of closure fair value hedges.
Derivatives embedded within other contractual in connection with disturbances at the reporting date.
Routine arrangements and commodity based transactions executed through operating costs that may impact the ultimate restoration and derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting.
rehabilitation activities, such as waste material handling conducted as an integral part of a mining or production process, are not included Fair value hedge in the provision.
Costs arising from unforeseen circumstances, such as Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and the contamination caused by unplanned discharges, are recognised qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, as an expense and liability when the event gives rise to an obligation together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or which is probable and capable of reliable estimation.
liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Any difference Restoration and rehabilitation provisions are measured at the between the change in fair value of the derivative and the hedged risk expected value of future cash flows, discounted to their present value constitutes ineffectiveness of the hedge and is recognised immediately and determined according to the probability of alternative estimates in the income statement.
of cash flows occurring for each operation.
Discount rates used are Cash flow hedge specific to the country in which the operation is located.
Significant judgements and estimates are involved in forming expectations of The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that future activities and the amount and timing of the associated cash are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity flows.
Those expectations are formed based on existing environmental in the hedging reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective and regulatory requirements or, if more stringent, BHP Billiton Group portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
environmental policies for which an obligation has been created.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement When provisions for restoration and rehabilitation are initially in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
However, recognised, the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the representing part of the cost of acquiring the future economic benefits recognition of a non-financial asset for example, plant and of the operation.
The capitalised cost of restoration and rehabilitation equipment purchases or a non-financial liability, the gains and activities is classified as Other mineral assets and amortised over the losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and estimated economic life of the operation on a units of production included in the measurement of the initial cost or carrying amount basis.
The value of the provision is progressively increased over time of the asset or liability.
as the effect of discounting unwinds, creating an expense recognised When a hedging instrument expires or is sold or terminated, or when in finance charges.
a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any Restoration and rehabilitation provisions are also adjusted for changes cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in in estimates.
Those adjustments are accounted for as a change in the equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately corresponding capitalised cost, except where a reduction in the recognised in the income statement.
When a hedged forecast provision is greater than the unamortised capitalised cost, in which transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative hedge case the capitalised cost is reduced to nil and the remaining gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred adjustment is recognised in the income statement.
Changes to the to the income statement.
capitalised cost result in an adjustment to future amortisation charges.
Adjustments to the estimated amount and timing of future 160 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt2 13 9 06 10:11 PM Page 161 1 Accounting policies continued Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves may change from period to period.
Changes in reported reserves may Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
affect the BHP Billiton Groups financial results and financial position Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not in a number of ways, including the following: qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Asset carrying values may be affected due to changes in estimated income statement.
Available for sale and trading investments Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged in the income statement may change where such charges are determined by the Available for sale and trading investments are measured at fair value.
units of production basis, or where the useful economic lives of Gains and losses on the remeasurement of trading investments are assets change.
recognised directly in the income statement.
Gains and losses on the remeasurement of available for sale investments are recognised Overburden removal costs recorded on the balance sheet or charged directly in equity and subsequently recognised in the income in the income statement may change due to changes in stripping statement when realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction ratios or the units of production basis of depreciation.
in fair value is judged to represent an impairment.
Decommissioning, site restoration and environmental provisions may change where changes in estimated reserves affect Application of critical accounting policies and estimates expectations about the timing or cost of these activities.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires The carrying value of deferred tax assets may change due to management to make judgements and estimates and form changes in estimates of the likely recovery of the tax benefits.
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial Exploration and evaluation expenditure statements, and the reported revenue and costs during the periods The BHP Billiton Groups accounting policy for exploration and presented therein.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its evaluation expenditure results in certain items of expenditure being judgements and estimates in relation to assets, liabilities, contingent capitalised for an area of interest where it is considered likely to be liabilities, revenue and costs.
Management bases its judgements and recoverable by future exploitation or sale or where the activities have estimates on historical experience and on other various factors it not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of existence of reserves.
This policy requires management to make which form the basis of the carrying values of assets and liabilities certain estimates and assumptions as to future events and that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may circumstances, in particular whether an economically viable extraction differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
Any such estimates and assumptions may change as new information becomes available.
If, after having The BHP Billiton Group has identified the following critical accounting capitalised the expenditure under the policy, a judgement is made that policies under which significant judgements, estimates and recovery of the expenditure is unlikely, the relevant capitalised amount assumptions are made and where actual results may differ from will be written off to the income statement.
these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and may materially affect financial results or the financial position reported in Development expenditure future periods.
Development activities commence after project sanctioning by the Reserve estimates appropriate level of management.
Judgement is applied by management in determining when a project has reached a stage at Reserves are estimates of the amount of product that can be which economically recoverable reserves exist such that development economically and legally extracted from the BHP Billiton Groups may be sanctioned.
In exercising this judgement, management is properties.
In order to calculate reserves, estimates and assumptions required to make certain estimates and assumptions similar to those are required about a range of geological, technical and economic described above for capitalised exploration and evaluation factors, including quantities, grades, production techniques, recovery expenditure.
Any such estimates and assumptions may change as rates, production costs, transport costs, commodity demand, new information becomes available.
If, after having commenced the commodity prices and exchange rates.
development activity, a judgement is made that a development asset Estimating the quantity and or grade of reserves requires the size, is impaired, the appropriate amount will be written off to the income shape and depth of ore bodies or fields to be determined by analysing statement.
geological data such as drilling samples.
This process may require complex and difficult geological judgements and calculations to Property, plant and equipment recoverable amount interpret the data.
In accordance with BHP Billiton Groups accounting policy, each asset The BHP Billiton Group is required to determine and report ore or cash generating unit is evaluated every reporting period to reserves in Australia and the UK under the Australasian Code for determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If any Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves September 1999, such indication exists, a formal estimate of recoverable amount is known as the JORC Code.
The JORC Code requires the use of performed and an impairment loss recognised to the extent that reasonable investment assumptions to calculate reserves.
Reserve carrying amount exceeds recoverable amount.
The recoverable reporting requirements for SEC United States of America filings are amount of an asset or cash generating group of assets is measured specified in Industry Guide 7 which requires economic assumptions at the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
to be based on current economic conditions, which may differ from Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained from assumptions based on reasonable investment assumptions.
For the sale of the asset in an arms length transaction between example, if current prices remain above long-term historical averages knowledgeable and willing parties, and is generally determined as for an extended period of time, internal assumptions about future the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to prices may involve the use of lower prices to estimate reserves under arise from the continued use of the asset, including any expansion the JORC Code.
Lower price assumptions generally result in lower prospects, and its eventual disposal.
Value in use is also generally estimates of reserves.
Accordingly, for SEC filings, assumed future determined as the present value of the estimated future cash flows, selling prices are based on existing contract prices for commodities but only those expected to arise from the continued use of the asset sold under long-term contracts, such as iron ore and coal, and the in its present form and its eventual disposal.
Present values are three-year historical average for commodities that are traded on the determined using a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate appropriate to London Metals Exchange, such as copper and nickel.
the risks inherent in the asset.
Future cash flow estimates are based Oil and gas reserves reported in Australia and the UK, and the US for on expected production and sales volumes, commodity prices SEC filing purposes, are based on prices prevailing at the time of the considering current and historical prices, price trends and related estimates as required under Statement of Financial Accounting factors, reserves see Reserve estimates above, operating costs, Standards No.
69 Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities, restoration and rehabilitation costs and future capital expenditure.
issued by the US Financial Accounting Standards Board.
This policy requires management to make these estimates and assumptions which are subject to risk and uncertainty: hence there is Because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter these projections, from period to period, and because additional geological data is BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 161 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt2 13 9 06 10:11 PM Page 162 Notes to Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued which may impact the recoverable amount of the assets.
In such in future depreciation and interest charges.
For closed sites, changes to circumstances, some or all of the carrying value of the assets may be estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
impaired and the impairment would be charged against the income In addition to the uncertainties noted above, certain restoration and statement.
rehabilitation activities are subject to legal disputes and depending on the ultimate resolution of these issues the final liability for these Defined benefit superannuation schemes matters could vary.
Management believes that it is reasonably possible For defined benefit schemes, other than certain industry-wide that, due to the nature of the liabilities for closed sites and the degree schemes, the cost of benefits charged to the income statement of uncertainty that surrounds them, our liabilities in relation to closed includes current and past service costs, interest costs on defined sites could be in the order of 30 per cent greater or in the order of benefit obligations and the effect of any curtailments or settlements, 20 per cent lower than that provided at year end.
net of expected returns on plan assets.
An asset or liability is consequently recognised in the balance sheet based on the present Taxation value of defined obligations, less any unrecognised past service costs The BHP Billiton Groups accounting policy for taxation requires and the fair value of plan assets.
For all other schemes, the cost of managements judgement as to the types of arrangements considered providing benefits is recognised based on contributions payable.
to be a tax on income in contrast to an operating cost.
Judgement is The accounting policy requires management to make judgements also required in assessing whether deferred tax assets and certain as to the nature of benefits provided by each scheme and thereby deferred tax liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet.
Deferred determine the classification of each scheme.
For defined benefit tax assets, including those arising from unrecouped tax losses, capital schemes, management is required to make annual estimates and losses and temporary differences, are recognised only where it is assumptions about future returns on classes of scheme assets, future considered more likely than not that they will be recovered, which remuneration changes, employee attrition rates, administration costs, is dependent on the generation of sufficient future taxable profits.
changes in benefits, inflation rates, exchange rates, life expectancy Deferred tax liabilities arising from temporary differences in and expected remaining periods of service of employees.
In making investments, caused principally by retained earnings held in foreign these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice tax jurisdictions, are recognised unless repatriation of retained provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
Where actual earnings can be controlled and are not expected to occur in the experience differs to these estimates, actuarial gains and losses are foreseeable future.
Refer to note 22 for details of the key Assumptions about the generation of future taxable profits and assumptions.
repatriation of retained earnings depend on managements estimates of future cash flows.
These depend on estimates of future production Provision for restoration and rehabilitation and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves, operating costs, The BHP Billiton Groups accounting policy requires the recognition restoration and rehabilitation costs, capital expenditure, dividends of provisions for the restoration and rehabilitation of each site.
The and other capital management transactions.
Assumptions are also provision recognised represents managements best estimate of the required about the application of income tax legislation.
These present value of the future costs required.
Significant estimates and estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty, hence assumptions are made in determining the amount of restoration and there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter rehabilitation provisions.
Those estimates and assumptions deal with expectations, which may impact the amount of deferred tax assets uncertainties such as: changes to the relevant legal and regulatory and deferred tax liabilities recognised on the balance sheet and the framework: the magnitude of possible contamination and the timing, amount of other tax losses and temporary differences not yet extent and costs of required restoration and rehabilitation activity.
In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying These uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing amount of recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities may require from the amounts currently provided.
adjustment, resulting in a corresponding credit or charge to the income statement.
The provision recognised for each site is periodically reviewed and updated based on the facts and circumstances available at the time.
Rounding of amounts Changes to the estimated future costs for operating sites are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting both the restoration and Amounts in this financial report have, unless otherwise indicated, rehabilitation asset and provision.
Such changes give rise to a change been rounded to the nearest million dollars.
Exchange rates The following exchange rates against the US dollar have been applied in the financial report: Average Average year ended year ended As at As at 30 June 2006 30 June 2005 30 June 2006 30 June 2005 a Australian dollar 0.75 0.75 0.74 0.76 Brazilian real 2.24 2.73 2.18 2.36 Canadian dollar 1.16 1.25 1.1 1 1.23 Chilean peso 532 595 546 579 Colombian peso 2,324 2,454 2,635 2,329 South African rand 6.41 6.21 7.12 6.67 Euro 0.82 0.79 0.78 0.83 UK pound sterling 0.56 0.54 0.55 0.55 a Displayed as US$ to A$1 based on common convention.
