NEW Pt 3 9 9 06 12:59 AM Page 72 Notes to the Summary Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies Basis of preparation Change in accounting policy This summary financial report for the year ended 30 June 2006 has The accounting policies have been consistently applied by all entities been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK included in the BHP Billiton Group consolidated financial report and Companies Act 1985 and Australian Corporations Act 2001 and with: are consistent with those applied in the prior year, except for: Australian equivalents to International Financial Reporting Standards Financial instruments as issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board and interpretations effective as of 30 June 2006 In the current year, the Group adopted IAS 32 AASB 132 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 AASB 139 International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement from 1 July adopted by the European Union EU as of 30 June 2006 2005.
Prior to 1 July 2005, the principal accounting policies affecting those standards and interpretations adopted early as described in financial instruments were as follows: the full financial statements.
Available for sale investments were classified as fixed asset The above standards and interpretations are collectively referred to as investments and, other than for joint ventures and associates, were IFRS in this Report.
stated individually at cost less provisions for impairment.
The comparative information has also been prepared on this basis Trading investments were classified as current asset investments and with the exception of certain items, details of which are given below, valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In determining for which comparative information has not been restated.
The net realisable values, market values were used in the case of listed comparative figures for the financial year ended 30 June 2005 are investments and Directors estimates were used in the case of not the statutory accounts of BHP Billiton Plc for that financial year.
Those accounts, which were prepared under UK Generally Accepted Derivative financial instruments were accounted for using Australian Accounting Principles GAAP, have been reported on by the GAAP and UK GAAP hedge accounting principles whereby Companys auditors and delivered to the registrar of companies.
derivatives were matched to specifically identified commercial risks The report of the auditors was unqualified and did not contain being hedged.
These matching principles were applied using accrual statements under Section 235 3, or 237 2 or 3 of the Companies accounting methods to both realised and unrealised transactions.
Derivatives undertaken as hedges of anticipated transactions were recognised when such transactions were recognised.
Upon This is a summary of BHP Billiton Groups first IFRS financial report.
recognition of the underlying transaction, derivatives were valued at The basis of preparation is different to that of the most recent the appropriate market spot rate.
When an underlying transaction comparative years annual financial report due to the first time could no longer be identified, gains or losses on a derivative adoption of IFRS.
An explanation of how the transition to IFRS has previously designated as a hedge of that transaction were taken to affected the reported financial position and financial performance of the income statement, whether or not the derivative was the BHP Billiton Group is provided in note 7.
When a hedge was terminated, the deferred gain or loss reconciliations of equity and profit for comparative periods previously that arose prior to termination was: reported under UK GAAP and Australian GAAP to those amounts deferred and included in the measurement of the anticipated reported under IFRS.
transaction when it occurred: or IFRS 1 AASB 1 First time adoption of International Financial Reporting taken to the income statement when the anticipated transaction Standards in general requires accounting policies to be applied was no longer expected to occur.
retrospectively in order to determine the opening balance sheet at the The premiums paid on interest rate options and foreign currency put BHP Billiton Groups IFRS transition date of 1 July 2004, and allows and call options were included in debtors and were deferred and certain exemptions on the transition to IFRS, which the BHP Billiton included in the settlement of the underlying transaction.
Group has elected to apply.
Those elections considered significant to the BHP Billiton Group include decisions to: The adoption of IAS 32 AASB 132 Financial Instruments: Disclosure not restate previous mergers or acquisitions and the accounting and Presentation and IAS 39 AASB 139 Financial Instruments: thereof Recognition and Measurement has resulted in the Group recognising available for sale investments and all derivative financial instruments measure property, plant and equipment at deemed cost, being the as assets or liabilities at fair value.
Accordingly, transitional carrying value of property, plant and equipment immediately prior to adjustments in respect of IAS 32 AASB 132 and IAS 39 AASB 139 have the date of transition, with no adjustment made to fair value been recorded in the opening balance sheet and against retained not apply the recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS profits and reserves, as applicable, at 1 July 2005.
The impacts of 2 AASB 2 Share-based Payment to equity instruments granted adopting those standards at 1 July 2005 were as follows: before 7 November 2002 recognise the cumulative effect of actuarial gains and losses on Equity attributable to BHP Billiton Group shareholders increased defined benefit employee schemes in retained earnings as at the US$201 million as set out in the consolidated statement of recognised transition date income and expense.
This was net of consequential increases in deferred tax liabilities of US$37 million.
This represents the net gain transfer all foreign currency translation differences previously held in on measuring at fair value qualifying hedges, embedded derivatives, reserves to retained earnings at the transition date.
available for sale investments and certain derivatives that do not In addition, as described below, BHP Billiton has applied the exemption qualify as hedges, which were not recognised on a fair value basis available under IFRS 1 AASB 1 whereby IAS 32 AASB 132 Financial prior to 1 July 2005.
The major balance sheet items affected were Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 AASB 139 financial assets: increase of US$1,279 million: financial liabilities: Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement have been increase of US$634 million: and borrowings: increase of US$411 applied from 1 July 2005 and not for the year ended 30 June 2005. million.
The net impact on other balance sheet items was a debit of US$3 million.
A full description of the accounting policies adopted by the BHP Billiton Group may be found in the BHP Billiton Annual Report 2006.
All amounts are expressed in US dollars unless otherwise stated.
The BHP Billiton Groups presentation currency and the functional currency of the majority of its operations is US dollars as this is the principal currency of the economic environment in which it operates.
Amounts in this summary financial report have, unless otherwise indicated, been rounded to the nearest million dollars.
