Operating and financial review and prospects This Operating and financial review and prospects section is We generally produce products in the southern hemisphere and intended to convey managements perspective of the BHP Billiton sell into the northern hemisphere.
Our major production operations Group and its operational and financial performance as measured are in Australia, Latin America and southern Africa.
Our sales are in accordance with IFRS.
We intend this disclosure to assist readers geographically diversified.
About a third of our revenue is to understand and interpret the financial statements included in generated in Asia in particular, China, South Korea and Japan, this Report.
This section should be read in conjunction with those about a third in Europe and the balance in the rest of the world, financial statements, together with the accompanying notes.
mainly Australia, North America and southern Africa.
We also sell product sourced from third party producers.
In 2005-06, third party This Operating and financial review and prospects section is product represented approximately 15.4 per cent of our revenue divided into the following parts: but only 0.8 per cent of our profit from operations.
Our business a general description of our business: the strategic Strategic drivers of our business drivers: the key measurements we use to assess our performance: the economic factors affecting our business and the trends and Our core purpose is to create long-term value through the uncertainties we have identified that significantly affect our discovery, development and conversion of natural resources and business.
the provision of innovative customer and market-focused solutions.
Application of critical accounting policies and estimates a discussion of our accounting policies that require critical Fundamentally, this means that our business will have: judgements and estimates.
a focus on the upstream extraction of natural resources Operating results an analysis of the consolidated results of high-quality, long-life and low-cost assets with embedded operations of the BHP Billiton Group for the two years presented in growth options our financial statements, and an explanation of Underlying EBIT as a diversified portfolio of commodities and assets and geographic a focus of our analysis of the business.
regions that reduce the volatility of cash flows a focus on seaborne traded commodities Liquidity and capital resources an analysis of cash flows and sources and uses of cash.
a global portfolio of employees, assets and customers.
Off-balance sheet arrangements an analysis of financial Our strategy is based around discovering or acquiring and arrangements that are not reflected on our balance sheet.
developing large, low-cost, high reserve assets to produce stable cash flows that support an ongoing program of exploration and Contractual obligations an analysis of our contractual obligations development of new assets, as well as providing consistent and and commercial commitments.
In executing this strategy, we focus on seven strategic drivers: Our business People the foundation of our business is our people.
We Description of the BHP Billiton Group require people to find resources, develop those resources, BHP Billiton is the worlds largest diversified resources group by operate the businesses that produce our products, and then market capitalisation, revenue and profit.
We had a combined deliver that product to our customers.
market capitalisation of approximately US$123 billion as of Licence to operate we ensure that those who are impacted by 30 June 2006, and we generated revenue of US$32.2 billion, our operations also benefit by the operation.
Licence to operate revenue together with our share of jointly controlled entities means win-win relationships and partnerships.
This includes a revenue of US$39.1 billion and profit attributable to BHP Billiton central focus on health, safety, environment and the community, shareholders of US$10.5 billion for the year ended 30 June 2006. and being valued as a good corporate citizen.
We generate most of our revenue, profit and cash flows by World-class assets our world-class assets provide the cash discovering or acquiring petroleum and mineral resources, flows that are required to build new projects, to pay our extracting them through mining, drilling and processing operations employees, suppliers, taxes and partners, and ultimately to pay and selling them to our customers.
We divide our business into dividends to our shareholders.
We maintain high-quality assets seven business units or Customer Sector Groups CSGs : by managing them in the most effective and efficient way.
Taking Petroleum, which explores for, produces, processes and markets care of our world-class assets is absolutely critical.
hydrocarbons including oil, gas and liquefied natural gas The BHP Billiton way this concept captures a series of Business Aluminium, which explores for and mines bauxite and processes Excellence processes, knowledge sharing networks and our and markets aluminium and alumina customer-focused marketing organisation, which is applied to all Base Metals, which explores for, mines, processes and markets of our assets and businesses.
The development of these copper, silver, zinc, lead, uranium, and copper by-products processes and sharing of the principles behind those concepts including gold and molybdenum lead to increased economies of scale and shared best practices.
Carbon Steel Materials, which explores for, mines, processes and Financial strength and discipline we have a solid single A markets metallurgical coal, iron ore and manganese used in the credit rating, which balances financial flexibility with the cost of production of carbon steel finance.
Strong financial management is necessary in order to Diamonds and Specialty Products, which explores for and mines support the growth initiatives we are undertaking globally across diamonds and titanium minerals, and also includes our recentlyall our businesses.
sold fertiliser operations Project pipeline we are continuously identifying, prioritising Energy Coal, which explores for, mines, processes and markets and executing the next set of growth projects.
It is a critical part energy coal for use in electricity generation of our strategy to successfully deliver our growth projects on Stainless Steel Materials, which explores for, mines, processes time and on budget.
and markets nickel, which is used in the production of stainless Growth options we use exploration, technology and our global steel.
footprint to identify the next generation of opportunities where we can invest and use our skills and strengths.
In addition to the seven CSGs, we also have a minerals exploration group, a technology group and a freight, transport and logistics operation.
Operating and financial review and prospects continued Key measures Operational efficiency in order to assess whether we are operating our assets efficiently across the Group, we look primarily We use a number of measures to assess how well we have at Underlying EBIT as discussed below.
We continue to pursue a performed in the areas we have identified as key drivers.
The key number of operational efficiency projects at our operations, as part financial measure of our overall strategy is the amount of profit of our Business Excellence initiative.
attributable to BHP Billiton shareholders that we earn over time.
The key financial measure we use to measure the performance of Production in 2005-06, in response to record demand, we our operations is Underlying EBIT described below.
In 2005-06, stretched production from our assets to new levels, with annual profit attributable to BHP Billiton shareholders was US$10.5 billion, production records set for aluminium, copper, iron ore, nickel and an increase of US$4.1 billion, or 63.4 per cent, from 2004-05. natural gas.
Underlying EBIT for the year ended 30 June 2006 was US$15.3 Liquidity and capital management net debt comprising cash billion, compared with US$9.9 billion in the prior year, an increase and interest bearing liabilities at 30 June 2006 was US$8.2 billion, of 54.0 per cent.
The following measures assist us to track various a decrease of US$0.5 billion, or 5.6 per cent, compared to aspects of the business that contribute to the overall result: 30 June 2005.
Gearing, which is the ratio of net debt to net debt Health, safety, environment and community in previous years our plus net assets, was 25.2 per cent at 30 June 2006, compared with principal measure of safety performance was our Classified Injury 32.8 per cent at 30 June 2005.
Frequency Rate CIFR, which is the number of classified injuries In October 2005, BHP Billiton filed a US$3.0 billion shelf per million work hours.
A classified injury is defined as any registration statement with the US Securities and Exchange workplace injury that has resulted in the person not returning to Commission SEC.
In December 2005, we issued an SEC registered their unrestricted normal duties after the calendar day on which Global Bond comprising US$600 million of 5.00 per cent Senior the injury was received.
In July 2005, we commenced monitoring Notes due 2010 and US$750 million of 5.25 per cent Senior Notes Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR as the means to due 2015.
In May 2006, we issued 650 million US$807 million of track injuries.
This move aims to improve the visibility of all 4.125 per cent Euro Bonds due in May 2011.
The proceeds were workplace incidents by including the total number of medical used to partially repay debt incurred to fund the acquisition of treatment cases.
Our performance in safety during 2005-06 was WMC and to repay commercial paper.
This compares to three in 2004-05.
Our TRIFR was 8.7 for this first year of tracking and our CIFR External factors affecting our results increased from 3.9 to 4.8, in part due to a range of acquisitions The following section describes some of the external factors that and divestments made during 2005-06.
On a positive note, the have a material impact on our financial condition and results of duration rate, which measures the impact of injuries on people in operations.
We manage the risks discussed in this section under terms of days lost per classified injury, decreased by 28 per cent.
our portfolio management approach, which relies on the effects of From the health perspective there was an encouraging 19 per cent diversification, rather than individual price risk management decrease in new cases of work-related illnesses compared to 2004- programs.
You should refer to note 28 Financial instruments in 05.
In relation to our effect on the environment, there were three the financial statements for details of our financial instruments significant environmental incidents.
Remedial actions were put in outstanding at 30 June 2006. place, stakeholders notified and investigations undertaken, with longer-term corrective and preventative actions identified and Commodity prices being implemented.
Our voluntary contributions to community The following summarises the trends of our most significant programs totalled US$81.3 million, equating to 1.45 per cent of commodities for the year ended 30 June 2006. pre-tax profits on a three-year rolling average basis, compared to US$57.4 million, or 1.59 per cent of pre-tax profit for 2004-05.
Oil: The primary drivers behind the strength of the oil price have Although the percentage has decreased, the actual value of our been strong demand, a limited amount of spare OPEC crude community investment has increased significantly due to the production capacity, crude supply disruptions, and geopolitical increased profits, and continues to exceed our target of 1 per cent.
factors contributing to a significant risk premium.
Despite patches of weakness, the world economy has grown strongly, led by China, Growth projects we completed four major projects major being with rapidly growing energy requirements.
The year ended with over US$100 million our share during 2005-06 with forecast final effective OPEC spare capacity at less than 2 million bbl d in a total capital expenditure totalling US$1,405 million, against total market of 83 to 85 million bbl d, with almost 1 million bbl d of approved capital expenditure of US$1,384 million, a 1.5 per cent disrupted supply in Nigeria and Iraq.
Various geopolitical events increase from the overall approved amount.
Additionally, we contributed to concerns about security of energy sources, including approved seven further major projects during the period, with conflict in the Middle East, nationalisation of international oil total approved capital expenditure of US$5,048 million.
Another companies assets in Venezuela, pipeline explosions and hostagesix major projects are under development with capital expenditure taking in Nigeria and changes to Russian oil and gas export approved in prior years totalling US$4,455 million.
each major project, its capacity, budgeted capital and target end date, refer to Liquidity and capital resources.
Currency strength Aluminium: The aluminium market was very strong throughout against the US dollar has added further cost pressure.
The closing benchmark three-month price on the London conditions in Australia and the Gulf of Mexico are particularly tight Metal Exchange LME at the end of the year was US$2,630 per and are impacting both existing projects and our plans to execute tonne, up 50 per cent from the beginning of the fiscal year.
new growth projects in these regions.
Specifically, the At times, the three-month price on the LME was in excess of Ravensthorpe Nickel Project in Western Australia and the Atlantis US$3,200 per tonne.
For the fiscal year as a whole, the threeSouth development in the Gulf of Mexico are experiencing cost month price averaged US$2,260 per tonne.
While aluminium stock pressures of more than 30 per cent in excess of approved budgets.
levels on the LME and other major commodity exchanges rose As a result, a detailed review of the Ravensthorpe schedule and during the course of the fiscal year, visible stock levels measured budget commenced during the last quarter of 2005-06.
The in terms of global consumption still remained at historically very Atlantis South development schedule remains under review low levels.
Continuing uncertainty concerning the level of primary following last years hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico.
aluminium net exports from China coupled with the higher-cost alumina and energy environments supported the higher aluminium price.
80 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 81 Copper: Refined copper demand was stronger in many regions as together with this additional domestic production was the major consumers finished fide-stocking and economic activity picked up in contributor to excess coke stockpiles and price declines in the many countries.
The International Copper Study Group ICSG merchant coke market.
estimates that in calendar 2005, refined copper consumption Energy coal: Growth in energy coal demand is closely related reached 16.51 million tonnes, down 1.3 per cent from the previous to growth in electricity consumption, which has increased at an year.
However, in the first four months of calendar 2006, refined average rate of 2.8 per cent per annum since 1990.
The cost copper demand is estimated by the ICSG to have risen by 2 per of fuel is typically the largest variable cost involved in electricity cent year-on-year.
Combined exchange stocks at generation.
On an energy basis, coal is currently the cheapest LME Comex Shanghai rose during 2005-06 by 90,203 tonnes from fossil fuel for electricity generation in most seaborne markets, 71,421 tonnes to 161,624 tonnes.
Stocks fell in the US and Europe, ahead of gas and oil.
Prices fell somewhat during 2004-05 as but rose in Asia.
A surge in global oil and gas prices Iron ore: Market conditions remained tight in 2006, underpinned contributed to a recovery in coal prices during 2005-06.
Other by continued buoyant demand for imports by China as pig iron factors contributing to high energy coal prices include a weaker growth remains very strong and Chinese local iron ore production US dollar relative to some of the key coal exporting country was not able to increase at the same rate.
The 71.5 per cent price currencies, strong growth in demand in the Pacific driven by new increase for fines in 2005 stimulated further high cost iron ore installed power generation capacity, growth in imports into the production, including domestic low grade ores from China, but US, India and China, and steady demand in Europe.
challenges in ramping up capacity in major export producers Nickel: Nickel prices historically have demonstrated greater price located in Australia and Brazil have been compounded by poor volatility than most other metals and the recent past has been weather conditions in Australia in late 2005 early 2006, so that no exception.
The nickel price began 2005-06 with a price of capacity growth has been delayed.
The overall impact is to sustain US$14,680 per tonne.
A period of fide-stocking in the stainless steel a stronger for longer market outlook as evidenced by the 19 per industry during the first half of 2005-06 decreased the average cent price increase achieved for the 2006 Japanese financial year.
nickel price for that period to US$13,608 per tonne.
A strong Metallurgical coal: Metallurgical coal demand remained robust resurgence in stainless steel and nickel demand saw an increase during 2005-06, although blast furnace production adjustments in the second half of 2005-06 with an average nickel price of together with sharply lower Chinese merchant coke prices, down US$17,367 per tonne.
The months of May and June 2006 had an to around US$120 per tonne by December 2005, saw some average nickel price exceeding US$20,000 per tonne.
LME nickel moderation of demand in selected markets.
High prices saw stocks were 6,882 tonnes at the start of the financial year, imports into China decline from around 6 million tonnes to around climbing to over 36,000 tonnes during the period of fide-stocking.
2 to 3 million tonnes as Chinese domestic coking coal production The LME nickel stocks were 9,990 tonnes at the end of 2005-06. increased.
Large expansions of coke-making capacity in China Commodity price trends and sensitivities The following table shows the average prices of our most significant commodities for the three years ended 30 June 2006.
2 Price represents that set in April of the relevant fiscal year.
3 Prime hard coking coal worldwide.
The following table indicates the estimated impact on 2005-06 profit after taxation of changes in the prices of our commodities.
With the exception of price-linked costs, the sensitivities below assume that all other variables such as exchange rate, costs, volumes and taxation remain constant.
There is an inter-relationship between commodity prices and currencies that is not reflected in the sensitivities below.
Movements in commodity prices can cause movements in exchange rates and vice versa.
Volumes are based on 2005-06 actual results and sales prices of our commodities under a mix of short, medium and long-term contracts.
These sensitivities should therefore be used with care.
Estimated impact on 2005-06 profit after taxation of changes of: US$M US$1 t on iron ore price 55 US$1 bbl on oil price 25 US$1 t on metallurgical coal price 25 USc1 lb on aluminium price 20 USc1 lb on copper price 20 US$1 t on energy coal price 25 USc1 lb on nickel price 2 The impact of the commodity price movements in the current year is discussed in Results of operations.
Operating and financial review and prospects continued Exchange rates Commodity price, currency exchange rate and interest rate volatility commodity prices persist at high levels compared to We are exposed to exchange rate transaction risk on foreign recent years.
In real terms, base metals prices are now at similar currency sales and purchases.
For example, our products are levels to the prices experienced in the late 1980s.
Inventories on predominantly priced in US dollars.
As a result, fluctuations in the market exchanges as a proportion of demand continue to currencies that account for a substantial portion of our operating tighten.
The major difference between the situation today and that expenses primarily the Australian dollar, South African rand, of previous periods is the coincidence of high prices across the Chilean peso and Brazilian real relative to the US dollar could energy and minerals spectrum.
Today, in addition to high base have a material impact positive or negative on our financial metals prices, oil prices in real terms have approached the levels condition and results of operations.
seen in the 1970s and the real prices of key steelmaking raw We are also exposed to exchange rate translation risk in relation materials are at levels last seen in the early 1980s.
The confluence to net monetary liabilities defined as our foreign currency of demand growth across the commodity spectrum in the denominated monetary assets and liabilities, including debt and developed and developing economies coupled with a lag in the other long-term liabilities other than site restoration provisions supply response have driven the prices higher.
Increasing investor at operating sites where foreign currency gains and losses are interest in commodity markets and low inventory levels have capitalised in property, plant and equipment.
undoubtedly contributed to price levels and volatility.
Forward prices of LME metals and oil remain above long-term historical The following table indicates the estimated impact on 2005-06 averages, indicating that large-scale supply surpluses are currently profit before taxation of changes in the Australian dollar or South not being anticipated in these markets.
Natural and man-made African rand, which are the two principal currencies outside of the events are likely to continue to disrupt supply.
Regulatory US dollar to which we are exposed in terms of our net monetary approvals and rising capital costs are delaying project liabilities.
The sensitivities give the estimated impact on profit developments.
These factors could further tighten already short before taxation based on the exchange rate movement in isolation.
Similarly, there are no signs of an imminent retreat in bulk The sensitivities assume all variables except for exchange rate commodity prices.
However, high prices are inevitably leading to remaining constant.
As outlined above, there is an intersome substitution.
relationship between currencies and commodity prices where movements in exchange rates can cause movements in commodity Strong increases in industry operating and capital costs, shortages prices and vice versa.
This is not reflected in the sensitivities below.
of experienced people in some areas and lengthy time frames for These sensitivities should therefore be used with care.
installing new capacity suggest that it will be some time before a material supply response occurs.
Therefore we are likely to see an Estimated impact on 2005-06 profit before taxation of changes of: US$M extended period of high cyclical prices.
As we have consistently stated, however, over the longer term we expect the introduction Australian dollar USc1 A$ of new capacity to return prices to more sustainable levels.
1 Net monetary liabilities 24 Growth in product demand the global economy recorded strong South African rand 0.2 rand US$ growth during the year.
In Asia, growth has been supported by 1 Net monetary liabilities 7 continued domestic demand, exports and investment dominated Rand debt 4 by Chinas continuing industrialisation and urbanisation and continued growth in Japan.
Similarly, economic activity in Europe 1 Impact based on difference in opening and closing exchange rates for the gained momentum, with Germanys industrial production period.
US export growth provided support for overall economic expansion with buoyant export The impact of exchange rate movements in the current year is markets helped by the lagged effects of a weakening dollar.
In this discussed in Results of operations.
environment, commodity prices continued to post multi-decade highs.
Economies with strong energy and minerals exports, Interest rates particularly in Russia, Australia and parts of South America, have We are exposed to interest rate risk on our outstanding borrowings benefited.
Our policy on interest rate exposure is for interest The global economic outlook continues to be positive, although on our borrowings to be on a US dollar floating interest rate basis.
Deviation from our policy requires the prior approval of our rates of growth are likely to slow given high energy prices and the increasing trend of higher interest rates.
Growth in Asia will help Financial Risk Management Committee and is managed within our Cash Flow at Risk CFaR limit, which is described in note 28 drive the global economy, with Japans expansion well-established.
Chinas economic growth is expected to remain strong, even if Financial instruments in the financial statements.
When required under this strategy, we use interest rate swaps, including cross attempts to cool strong growth are successful.
Elsewhere, the US economy will slow from rapid growth experienced earlier in the currency interest rate swaps, to convert a fixed rate exposure to a floating rate exposure or vice versa.
As at 30 June 2006 we have year, but is likely to remain at levels consistent with long-term trends.
While the outlook for the global economy and commodity US$1.4 billion of fixed interest borrowings that have not been swapped to floating rates, arising principally from legacy positions prices is encouraging, it is not without risk.
Escalating geopolitical tensions, supply disruptions and high energy prices are that were in existence prior to the merger that created the DLC structure.
contributing to a tight oil market and are adding to increased uncertainty in markets.
Consumers are concerned about the Trends and uncertainties broader impact of further increases in oil prices and rising interest We operate our business in a dynamic and changing environment rates.
and with information that is rarely complete and exact.
In this Operating costs and capital expenditures strong demand for section, we discuss the most important areas where management resources globally has continued, leading to increased costs across sees trends occurring that may materially affect our future the industry for labour, contractors, raw materials, fuel, energy and financial condition and results of operations, risks that could have other input costs.
Some of the higher costs have resulted from our a material adverse effect on our business and areas where we efforts to increase short-term production to take advantage of the make decisions on the basis of information that is incomplete or current high price environment.
Our challenge is to ensure that uncertain.
these higher costs do not become a permanent structural change to our cost base.
82 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 83 Exploration and development of resources because most of our development expenditure revenues and profits are related to our oil and gas and minerals property, plant and equipment recoverable amount operations, our results and financial condition are directly related superannuation, pensions and other post-retirement benefits to the success of our exploration efforts and our ability to replace provision for restoration and rehabilitation existing reserves.
However, there are no guarantees our taxation.
exploration program will be successful.
When we identify an economic deposit there are often significant challenges and In accordance with IFRS, we are required to include information hurdles entailed in its development, such as negotiating rights to regarding the nature of the judgements and estimates and extract ore with governments and landowners, design and potential impacts on our financial results or financial position in construction of required infrastructure, utilisation of new the financial statements.
This information can be found in note 1 technologies in processing and building customer support.
Accounting policies in the financial statements.
Health, safety, environment and community central to our Operating results business is a commitment to sustainable development, which The following discussion and analysis are based on the financial incorporates health, safety, environment and community statements and accompanying notes, which reflect the combined responsibilities.
Our aims are to achieve Zero Harm in our health operations of the BHP Billiton Plc Group and the BHP Billiton and safety performance, to embed a systematic approach to Limited Group for the year ended 30 June 2006 as prepared in environmental risk management and to increase our engagement conformity with IFRS, and should be read in conjunction therewith.
Quite often these aims will lead to the implementation of standards that exceed applicable legal and In this analysis, all references to 2005-06 or the current year are to regulatory requirements.
Apart from our belief that applying best the year ended 30 June 2006 and all references to 2004-05 or the industry practice in health, safety and environmental management prior year are to the year ended 30 June 2005. is part of being a good corporate citizen, we believe establishing a For reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, the track record of minimising health, safety and environmental Group is required to comply with IFRS as issued by the International impacts leads to higher levels of trust in the communities in which Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Accordingly, the financial we operate, among the governments that regulate us and the statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as organisations that monitor our conduct.
outlined in the accounting policies, refer to note 1 Accounting Given the nature of our operations, there remains a risk that, policies in the financial statements.
In preparing our opening IFRS despite our best efforts, health, safety or environmental incidents balance sheet and our 2004-05 comparative information, we have may occur that could result in fines or remediation expenditures adjusted amounts reported in previous financial statements and damage our reputation, making it harder for us to do business prepared in accordance with UK or Australian Generally Accepted in the future.
Our activities are also highly regulated by health, Accounting Principles.
Australian Generally Accepted Accounting safety and environmental laws in a number of jurisdictions.
While Principles GAAP has been chosen as the reference predecessor we believe we are currently operating in accordance with these GAAP from which to base transitional adjustments.
The principal laws, as regulatory standards and expectations are constantly differences between our previous GAAP and IFRS are: developing and generally becoming more onerous, we may be Deferred taxation being recognised using the balance sheet exposed to increased litigation, compliance costs and unforeseen liability method of tax-effect accounting rather than the income environmental remediation expenses.
statement liability method applied under previous GAAP.
Three examples of material uncertainties identified by Equity-based compensation being measured based on the fair value of shares and options rather than their intrinsic values as management as key risks to our business are the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and potential reductions in fossil fuel recognised under previous GAAP.
consumption per capita and general consumption associated with Immediate recognition of the net asset or liability position of such regulation: the impact upon workers in our South African underlying defined benefit plans and medical benefit plans business of the high HIV AIDS infection rate: and compliance with rather than the delayed recognition under previous GAAP.
European regulations requiring proof that mineral resources can be Joint ventures that are constituted as a legal entity are used without affecting health or the environment.
accounted for using the equity method rather than by the proportionate consolidation method used to account for our Application of critical accounting policies and estimates interests in the Escondida, Mozal and Valesul joint ventures The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires under previous GAAP.
As each of these joint ventures operates management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the through an incorporated entity, IFRS classifies them as jointly reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of controlled entities.
The Australian version of IFRS requires the contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and use of the equity method of accounting, notwithstanding that in the reported revenue and costs during the periods presented substance none of the entities operate as independent business therein.
On an ongoing basis, our management evaluates its entities.
The change to single-line equity accounting for jointly estimates and judgements in relation to assets, liabilities, controlled entities does not impact Group net profit or net contingent liabilities, revenue and costs.
Management bases its equity, however, the amounts of profit before tax, income tax estimates and judgements on historical experience and on various expense, investments in jointly controlled entities and other other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, balance sheet and income statement line items are significantly the results of which form the basis of making judgements about affected.
This effect has led to our decision to monitor and the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily disclose our performance on an Underlying EBIT basis, as apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these discussed below.
estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
Royalty and resource rent related taxes are treated as a taxation arrangement when they have the characteristics of an income The critical accounting polices under which we are required to tax.
For such arrangements, current and deferred tax is provided make estimates and assumptions and where actual results may on the same basis as for other forms of taxation.
Under previous differ from these estimates under different assumptions and GAAP, such taxes were included in operating costs, and in some conditions and may materially affect our financial results or cases were not calculated in accordance with deferred tax financial position reported in future periods are as follows: principles.
reserve estimates exploration and evaluation expenditure BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 83 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 84 3.
Operating and financial review and prospects continued Dividends payable are not recognised as a liability until the One election made upon transition to IFRS was not to restate dividend has been formally declared by the Directors.
Under previous mergers or acquisitions and the accounting thereof.
If this previous UK GAAP, dividends payable were recognised as a election had not been made, the DLC merger would have been liability in the balance sheet at balance date, despite the fact accounted for as a purchase business combination with the BHP they were declared subsequent to balance date.
Billiton Limited Group acquiring the BHP Billiton Plc Group.
This accounting treatment would be consistent with the treatment A detailed explanation including reconciliations of profit after tax under US GAAP.
Note 39 US Generally Accepted Accounting and total equity of the impact of the transition to IFRS on our Principles disclosures in the financial statements provides further financial position and financial performance is set out in note 38 information on the impact for accounting for the DLC merger as a Transition to International Financial Reporting Standards in the purchase business combination.
An explanation of the basis of preparation of the financial statements under IFRS, including details of specific elections made on the transition to IFRS, is set out in note 1 Accounting policies in the financial statements.
Overview Our profit attributable to members of BHP Billiton for the year The exceptional diversity of our businesses by commodity, ended 30 June 2006 was US$10.5 billion compared with US$6.4 geography and customer base underpins the strength of our cash billion for the prior year, an increase of 63.4 per cent.
Excluding the flows and continues to support our ability to both identify and exceptional items outlined in Results of operations below our invest in growth opportunities whilst continuing to deliver profit attributable to members of BHP Billiton was US$10.2 billion outstanding returns to shareholders in the form of our progressive compared with US$6.4 billion for the prior year, an increase of dividend policy and other capital management initiatives.
On 23 August 2006, the Board declared a final dividend of 18.5 US Revenue was US$32.2 billion, up 20.6 per cent from US$26.7 cents per share.
This represents an increase of 27.6 per cent over billion last year.
Revenue from third party products decreased last years final dividend of 14.5 US cents per share.
This brings the 22.4 per cent to US$5.0 billion for the year ended 30 June 2006 total dividends declared for 2005-06 to 36.0 US cents per share, an from US$6.4 billion for the year ended 30 June 2005.
Revenue, increase of 8.0 US cents per share, or 28.6 per cent, over 2004-05. together with our share of jointly controlled entities revenue, was On 23 August 2006, we also announced a further capital return of US$39.1 billion, up 25.3 per cent from US$31.2 billion last year.
US$3.0 billion to shareholders to be executed over the next 18 Over the last five years, the Group has invested more than months through a series of share buy-backs.
We commenced this US$15 billion in organic growth projects and acquisitions.
This has program on 7 September 2006 with the on-market buy-back of resulted in an average volume increase across our key commodities 1,500,000 BHP Billiton Plc shares.
It is yet to be decided the extent of approximately 38 per cent.
The Groups global footprint, diverse to which the remaining buy-back will be on or off-market.
This product range and visibility to global markets have allowed the program brings the total buy-back programs announced to Group to invest through the business cycle in value adding US$5.0 billion for 2005-06 following the US$2.0 billion capital opportunities.
This has positioned our business to take full management program completed in May 2006.
Under that advantage of the current robust demand and price environment initiative, 114.8 million shares or 1.9 per cent of the issued share that underpins these record financial results.
Full year operational capital of the BHP Billiton Group were repurchased.
records were also accomplished, with record production achieved At the conclusion of the US$3.0 billion capital return announced for five major and two minor commodities.
on 23 August 2006, BHP Billiton will have returned US$15.5 billion in total to shareholders through capital initiatives and dividends since June 2001.
Results of operations Underlying EBIT Underlying EBIT was selected as a key measure of operational performance as a consequence of our adoption of IFRS.
Prior to In discussing the operating results of our business, we focus our adoption of IFRS, we used profit before interest and taxation on a non-GAAP US or IFRS financial measure we refer to as to assess and report operational performance as this measure Underlying EBIT.
Underlying EBIT is the key measure that excluded all net financing costs and taxation of the Group management uses internally to assess the performance of our including jointly controlled entities under previous GAAP.
business, make decisions on the allocation of resources and assess operational management.
Management uses this measure because However, under IFRS, we equity account all jointly controlled financing structures and tax regimes differ across our assets, and entities, resulting in the earnings net of financing costs and substantial components of our tax and interest charges are levied taxation of jointly controlled entities being included in our income at a Group, rather than an operational, level.
Underlying EBIT is statement under the single-line item share of profits from jointly calculated as earnings before interest and taxation EBIT, which is controlled entities.
In order to provide our management and referred to as profit from operations on the face of the income shareholders with a consistent picture of the operational statement, and excludes the effects of: performance of our business between the current and prior year, net financing costs and taxation of jointly controlled entities we exclude the financing costs and taxation of jointly controlled entities from the profit from operations line to arrive at Underlying exceptional items EBIT.
84 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 85 We exclude exceptional items from Underlying EBIT in order to entities and exceptional items.
As noted above, the line item from enhance the comparability of the measure from period to period.
our income statement prepared in accordance with IFRS that most Our management monitors exceptional items, net finance costs closely relates to Underlying EBIT is profit from operations, which and taxation separately.
Profit from operations differs from Underlying EBIT in that the profit from jointly controlled entities is included in You should be aware that Underlying EBIT is not a measure that is profit from operations net of the effects of financing costs and recognised under IFRS.
In addition, it may be different from the taxation and also includes exceptional items.
The following table measure EBIT or earnings before interest and taxation that are reconciles Underlying EBIT to profit from operations for the 2005 reported by other companies, in particular because we exclude the and 2006 financial years.
effect of net financing costs and taxation of equity accounted Year ended 30 June 2006 2005 US$M US$M Underlying EBIT 15,277 9,921 Impact of equity accounting for statutory purposes: Share of jointly controlled entities net finance costs 95 106 Share of jointly controlled entities total taxation expense 950 433 Exceptional items before taxation 439 111 Total adjustments in arriving at Underlying EBIT 606 650 Profit from operations EBIT 14,671 9,271 Consolidated results Profit from operations EBIT for the year ended 30 June 2006 was US$14.7 billion compared with US$9.3 billion in the prior year, an increase of 58.2 per cent.
Underlying EBIT for the year ended 30 June 2006 was US$15.3 billion compared with US$9.9 billion in the prior year, an increase of 54.0 per cent.
The increase in EBIT and Underlying EBIT was due primarily to higher commodity prices.
Metallurgical coal, iron ore, base metals, aluminium and petroleum prices contributed significantly to the increase in revenue and Underlying EBIT.
New and acquired operations also provided increased volumes.
The following table and commentary detail the approximate impact of the principal factors that affected EBIT and Underlying EBIT for the current year compared with the prior year.
US$M Profit from operations EBIT for the year ended 30 June 2005 9,271 Add: adjustments in arriving at Underlying EBIT 650 Underlying EBIT for the year ended 30 June 2005 9,921 Change in volumes: Existing operations 75 New and acquired operations 1,295 1,220 Change in sales prices 6,690 Change in costs: Costs usage 1,340 Price-linked costs 475 Exchange rates Inflation on costs 310 2,125 Asset sales 10 Ceased and sold operations 10 Exploration 280 Other 129 Underlying EBIT for the year ended 30 June 2006 15,277 Less: adjustments in arriving at Underlying EBIT 606 Profit from operations EBIT for the year ended 30 June 2006 14,671 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 85 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 86 3.
Operating and financial review and prospects continued Volumes existing operations petroleum products and aluminium contributed approximately US$7,200 million, which was partially offset by lower prices for Increased sales volumes of copper, iron ore, diamonds and manganese alloy and the sale of lower quality diamonds.
molybdenum from operations existing at the beginning of the year contributed approximately US$304 million to Underlying EBIT Costs measured at the prior periods average margins.
Sales volumes of Strong demand for resources globally has continued, leading to oil were lower than the prior year due to natural field decline and increased costs across the industry for labour, contractors, raw increased down time at existing assets.
Depletion of reserves at materials, fuel, energy and other input costs.
In this environment, Riverside Australia, extended maintenance outages at Blackwater costs for the Group have increased by US$1,340 million inclusive Australia and reduced shipments led to a decrease in sales of non-cash costs of US$125 million primarily related to increased volumes of metallurgical coal.
Reduced market demand for depreciation due to the commissioning of new projects.
Net of manganese alloy led to lower sales volumes for the period.
We non-cash costs, this represents an increase on our 2005 cost base also experienced decreased sales volumes of silver due to lower of 5.7 per cent.
production from our Cannington mine Australia resulting from lower head grades and temporary closure of the southern zone.
Specific areas of cost increases include changed mining conditions particularly at EKATI Canada, where we are mining a lower grade Volumes new and acquired operations zone, and Queensland Coal Australia, where mine mix changed New operations increased Underlying EBIT by US$1,295 million, following the closure of Riverside.
Labour and contractor charges, primarily due to a full years contribution of US$918 million from fuel and consumables, as well as maintenance and other operating the ex-WMC Resources Limited WMC operations acquired in June costs, have also increased.
The commissioning of a number of new 2005.
Also included was a full years production from ROD operations meant depreciation charges also increased.
Algeria, which commenced commercial production in October 2004, Mad Dog US and Angostura Trinidad and Tobago, which Price-linked costs were both commissioned in January 2005.
Higher price-linked costs reduced Underlying EBIT by US$475 million, largely because of higher royalties particularly for Carbon Steel Prices Materials and Petroleum products, increased treatment and Stronger commodity prices for most products increased Underlying refining charges TCRCs and price participation charges for copper EBIT by US$6,690 million.
Higher prices for most base metals and higher LME linked power charges in Aluminium.
products copper in particular, metallurgical coal, iron ore, all Exchange rates Exchange rate movements had a net nil impact on Underlying EBIT compared with last year.
The translation of monetary items had a favourable impact on Underlying EBIT of US$90 million principally due to exchange gains from the strengthening of the US dollar against the Australian dollar.
This compared to losses in the prior period.
This was offset by an unfavourable impact on operating costs of US$90 million, primarily due to the strengthening of the Brazilian real against the US dollar.
The following exchange rates against the US dollar have been applied: Average Average As at As at year ended year ended year ended year ended 30 June 2006 30 June 2005 30 June 2006 30 June 2005 a Australian dollar 0.75 0.75 0.74 0.76 Brazilian real 2.24 2.73 2.18 2.36 South African rand 6.41 6.21 7.12 6.67 a Displayed as US$ to A$1 based on common convention.
Inflation on costs Ceased and sold operations Inflationary pressures on input costs, mainly in Australia and Ceased and sold operations had a US$10 million unfavourable South Africa, had an unfavourable impact on Underlying EBIT of impact on Underlying EBIT.
The current period was negatively US$310 million.
impacted by the loss of earnings from the chrome business South Africa and the Laminaria and Corallina oil fields Australia that Asset sales were divested during the 2005 financial year, and the cessation of The impact from the sale of assets and interests on Underlying production at Typhoon Boris due to hurricane damage sustained during September 2005.
This was partly offset by the favourable EBIT was US$10 million lower than for the prior period.
The impact amounted to US$128 million for the current period, principally impact of US$149 million of higher earnings from Tintaya, which was sold in June 2006, and US$137 million in relation to care and related to the sale of BHP Billitons interest in the Wonderkop chrome joint venture South Africa for US$61 million, and the maintenance costs incurred at Boodarie Iron Australia in the prior period.
Green Canyon US oil fields and the Vincent Van Gogh Australia undeveloped oil discovery.
This compared to higher profits in the Exploration prior year, which included the sale of an equity participation in the North West Shelf Projects Australia gas reserve to China National Exploration spend was US$280 million higher than the prior year.
Offshore Oil Corporation of US$56 million, the profit of US$22 Petroleum expenditure taken to profit increased by US$192 million million on the sale of the Acerinox share investment and the due to increased activity in the Gulf of Mexico, a US$41 million disposal of our interest in Integris Metals US of US$19 million.
write-off of expenditure that had previously been capitalised, and a US$32 million impairment of the Cascade and Chinook oil and The profit on sale of the Tintaya copper mine Peru has been gas prospects, which have subsequently been sold.
Minerals included in exceptional items and is therefore not included in the exploration activity in Africa and Brazil also increased.
86 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 87 Other Exceptional items Other items decreased Underlying EBIT by US$129 million.
These Year ended 30 June 2006 included the cost for adjusting our interest in Valesul Brazil to Sale of Tintaya During June 2006, we sold our interest in the realisable value prior to disposal of US$50 million, as well as a Tintaya copper mine in Peru Base Metals.
Gross consideration lower contribution from freight activities.
The US$60 million sale received was US$853 million before deducting intercompany of an option held over an exploration property in Pakistan partially trade balances.
The net consideration of US$717 million net of offset these.
transaction costs included US$634 million for shares plus the assumption of US$116 million of debt, working capital adjustments Net finance costs and deferred payments contingent upon future copper prices and Net finance costs increased to US$505 million from US$331 million production volumes.
The profit on disposal was US$296 million in the prior period.
This was driven largely by higher average debt net of a taxation charge of US$143 million.
balances following the funding of the acquisition of WMC in June 2005, increased discounting on provisions and a higher average Year ended 30 June 2005 interest rate but was partially offset by higher capitalised interest.
Sale of Laminaria and Corallina In January 2005, we disposed of our interest in the Laminaria and Corallina oil fields.
Proceeds on Taxation expense the sale were US$130 million resulting in a profit before tax of The total taxation expense on profit before tax was US$3,632 US$134 million US$10 million tax expense.
million, representing an effective rate of 25.6 per cent calculated Disposal of chrome operations Effective 1 June 2005, we as total taxation expense divided by profit before taxation.
disposed of our economic interest in the majority of our South When compared to the UK and Australian statutory tax rate African chrome business.
The total proceeds on the sale were 30 per cent, the effective tax rate included a benefit of 3.5 per US$421 million, resulting in a profit of US$127 million US$1 million cent due to the recognition of US tax losses US$500 million.
In addition, we sold our interest in the Palmiet Following the transition to IFRS, certain royalty and petroleum chrome business in May 2005 for proceeds of US$12 million, resource-related taxes are treated as taxation arrangements when resulting in a profit of US$15 million US$5 million tax expense.
they have the characteristics of a tax.
This is considered to be the Provision for termination of operations We decided to case when they are imposed under Government authority and the decommission the Boodarie Iron operations and a charge of amount payable is calculated by reference to revenue derived net US$266 million US$80 million tax benefit relating to termination of any allowable deductions as determined by relevant legislation.
of the operation was recognised.
The charge primarily relates to As a result, such royalty costs which in prior years would have the settlement of existing contractual arrangements, plant been reported as an operating cost in Underlying EBIT are now decommissioning, site rehabilitation, redundancy and other reported as a taxation expense.
Obligations arising from royalty closure-related costs charges associated with the closure.
arrangements that do not satisfy these criteria continue to be recognised in operating expenses.
Royalty-related taxation Closure plans As part of our regular review of decommissioning represents an effective rate of 3.0 per cent for the current year.
and site restoration plans, we reassessed plans in respect of certain closed operations.
A total charge of US$121 million US$104 million after tax was recorded and included a charge of US$73 million US$21 million tax benefit for closed mines at Ingwe in relation to a revision of our assessed rehabilitation obligation, predominantly resulting from revised water management plans and a charge of US$48 million US$4 million tax expense in relation to other closed mining operations.
Customer Sector Group summary The following tables provide a summary of the Customer Sector Group revenues and results for the years ended 30 June 2006 and 2005.
Revenues Year ended 30 June 2006 2005 Our share Revenue Revenue together with Our share together with of jointly share of jointly of jointly share of jointly controlled controlled controlled controlled 1 1 US$M Revenue entities revenue entities revenues Revenue entities revenue entities revenues Petroleum 5,871 5 5,876 5,967 3 5,970 Aluminium 4,977 107 5,084 4,571 80 4,651 Base Metals 4,901 5,393 10,294 2,329 2,714 5,043 Carbon Steel Materials 9,134 626 9,760 7, 168 429 7,597 Diamonds and Specialty Products 886 377 1,263 731 778 1,509 Energy Coal 2,881 438 3,319 2,971 416 3,387 Stainless Steel Materials 2,955 2,955 2,266 8 2,274 Group and unallocated 2 items 548 548 719 719 BHP Billiton Group 32,153 6,946 39,099 26,722 4,428 31,150 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 87 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 15 9 06 1:32 PM Page 88 3.
Operating and financial review and prospects continued Results Year ended 30 June 2006 2005 Profit from Adjustments Profit from Adjustments operations in arriving at Underlying operations in arriving at Underlying 1 1 1 1 US$M EBIT | Underlying EBIT EBIT EBIT | Underlying EBIT EBIT Petroleum 2,968 2,968 2,529 134 2,395 Aluminium 1,147 44 1,191 923 36 959 Base Metals 5,013 387 5,400 1,766 405 2,171 Carbon Steel Materials 4,430 73 4,503 2,480 320 2,800 Diamonds and Specialty Products 300 45 345 525 35 560 Energy Coal 270 57 327 457 130 587 Stainless Steel Materials 901 901 854 142 712 Group and unallocated 2 items 358 358 263 263 BHP Billiton Group 14,671 606 15,277 9,271 650 9,921 1 Revenue together with share of jointly controlled entities revenue, EBIT and Underlying EBIT include trading activities comprising the sale of third party product.
2 Includes consolidation adjustments, unallocated items, inter-segment revenue, exploration and technology activities and external sales from the Groups freight, transport and logistics operations.
The changes in revenue and profit from operations EBIT, both on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis, are discussed below.
The changes in the non-GAAP measures of revenue, together with share of jointly controlled entities revenue and Underlying EBIT, also apply to the GAAP measures except where noted.
Petroleum Exploration expenditure charged to profit was US$394 million including the US$32 million impairment of Cascade and Chinook Revenue and revenue together with our share of jointly controlled and US$41 million of other exploration expenditure previously entities revenues decreased by US$0.1 billion, or 1.6 per cent over capitalised.
Gross expenditure on exploration of US$447 million 2004-05.
The sale of low margin third party product decreased was US$67 million higher than for the 2005 financial year as a revenue by US$988 million to US$967 million in the current year.
result of increased activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
This was largely offset by an increase in revenue of US$844 million from higher margin Group production.
Aluminium Total production in 2005-06 was 116.0 million boe, compared with Revenue was US$5.0 billion during 2005-06, an increase of total production in 2004-05 of 119.0 million boe.
US$0.4 billion or 8.7 per cent from US$4.6 billion in 2004-05.
Our share of jointly controlled entities revenue increased by EBIT was US$2,968 million, an increase of US$439 million or 33.8 per cent to US$107 million during 2005-06.
17.4 per cent compared with last year.
The 2005 year included the profit on sale of our interest in the Laminaria and Corallina oil Aluminium smelter production increased to 1,362,000 tonnes in fields of US$134 million before tax, which are shown as 2005-06 compared with 1,330,000 tonnes in the corresponding exceptional items and explained above.
There were no exceptional year, while alumina production was effectively unchanged at items in the current year.
Underlying EBIT was US$2,968 million, an increase of US$573 EBIT was US$1,147 million, an increase of US$224 million or million or 23.9 per cent compared to last year.
This was mainly 24.3 per cent compared with last year.
There were no exceptional due to higher average realised prices for all petroleum products, items in the current or prior year.
Underlying EBIT was US$1,191 including higher average realised oil prices per barrel of US$61.90 million, an increase of US$232 million, or 24.2 per cent, compared compared with US$47.16, higher average realised natural gas to last year.
Higher prices for aluminium and alumina had a prices of US$3.33 per thousand standard cubic feet compared favourable impact, with the average LME aluminium price with US$2.98, higher liquefied natural gas prices of US$6.76 per increasing to US$2,244 per tonne compared with US$1,804 per thousand standard cubic feet compared with US$5.75 and higher tonne for the corresponding period.
EBIT from third party trading average realised prices for liquefied petroleum gas of US$483.74 were also higher.
per tonne compared with US$382.85.
Increased volumes from Underlying EBIT was adversely impacted mainly by higher charges the first full year of production from ROD, Angostura and Mad Dog for LME-linked power, raw materials, fuel, labour and pot relining also had a favourable effect.
This was partially offset by lower in line with global supply pressures.
Exchange rate movements in volumes from existing assets due to natural field decline and the period also had an unfavourable effect on EBIT, particularly on higher down time for maintenance and weather-related the earnings derived from our Brazilian operations.
The negative impact of the loss of the Typhoon US of US$50 million of our interest in Valesul to fair value, in line with platform as a result of Hurricane Rita in September 2005 was the value achieved on its subsequent divestment, was also a partially offset by insurance recoveries, and the loss of earnings factor.
following the disposal of our interest in the Laminaria asset in January 2005 also reduced earnings.
Increased maintenance Despite the higher costs, margins improved significantly in the expenses and higher price-linked costs mainly royalties and excise second half of the year.
This improved translation of rising also had an unfavourable impact.
aluminium and alumina price into higher net earnings, despite the current environment of rising costs, reflects an intensive focus on The impairment of Cascade and Chinook amounting to US$32 cost containment.
million and of Typhoon, increased depreciation and amortisation, maintenance expenses and higher price-linked costs mainly royalties and excise also had an unfavourable impact.
88 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 89 Base Metals to 231,874 tonnes in the prior year.
These were revalued at a weighted average price of US$3.35 lb compared to US$1.54 lb in Revenue was US$4.9 billion during 2005-06, an increase of the prior year.
Revenue, together with our share of jointly controlled entities revenues, was Exploration expenditure incurred and expensed was US$14 million US$10.3 billion during 2005-06, an increase of US$5.3 billion, in 2005-06 compared with US$7 million in the prior year.
or 104.1 per cent, compared with US$5.0 billion in 2004-05.
Our share of jointly controlled entities revenue increased Carbon Steel Materials 98.7 per cent to US$5,393 million.
These revenue increases were Revenue, and revenue together with share of jointly controlled mainly attributable to higher average LME prices for copper.
entities revenues, increased by US$2.0 billion and US$2.2 billion respectively during 2005-06.
This increase was mainly attributable Payable copper production increased to 1.3 million tonnes to stronger commodity prices for iron ore and metallurgical coal.
compared with 1.0 million tonnes in the prior year.
Zinc production was 0.1 million tonnes, an increase of 3.5 per cent compared with Attributable Western Australia iron ore production was 89.6 million the prior year.
Attributable uranium production at Olympic Dam wet tonnes, which increased slightly from 2005-06 despite adverse Australia was 3,936 tonnes for the year compared with 415 weather conditions.
Production of Samarco Brazil pellets and tonnes for the month of June 2005 only.
Silver production was pellet feed was 7.5 million tonnes in 2005-06, which was in line 46.5 million ounces, a decrease of 7.1 per cent compared with with the prior year.
50.0 million ounces in the prior year.
Lead production was Queensland Coal production was 28.6 million tonnes in 2005-06, a 0.3 million tonnes, a decrease of 5.6 per cent compared with the decrease of 7.8 per cent compared with 2004-05.
This reflects the prior year.
The decrease in silver and lead production is mainly closure of the Riverside mine in 2004-05.
Illawarra Coal production attributable to lower grade of ore and the temporary closure of the was 7.0 million tonnes in 2005-06, an increase of 0.8 million southern zone of the Cannington mine Australia to accelerate a tonnes or 12.2 per cent compared with the prior year.
program of decline and stope access rehabilitation.
Manganese alloy production was 0.7 million tonnes in 2005-06, EBIT was US$5,013 million, an increase of US$3,247 million or compared with 0.8 million tonnes in the prior year, a decrease of 183.9 per cent compared with last year.
The current year included 13.6 per cent compared with the corresponding year.
Manganese the profit of US$439 million before tax on the sale of Tintaya, ore production was 5.3 million tonnes in 2005-06, a decrease of which is shown as an exceptional item, and the prior year included 0.2 million tonnes or 3.2 per cent compared with the prior year.
exceptional items of US$29 million before tax that are explained in Exceptional items above.
EBIT was US$4,430 million, an increase of US$1,950 million or 78.6 per cent.
The prior year included exceptional items of Underlying EBIT was US$5,400 million, an increase of US$3,229 US$285 million before tax primarily in relation to the closure of million, or 148.7 per cent, compared to last year.
This was mainly the Boodarie Iron operation.
Refer to Exceptional items above.
attributable to higher average LME prices for copper of US$2.28 lb compared to US$1.43 lb and higher prices for silver, zinc and Underlying EBIT was US$4,503 million, an increase of US$1,703 lead.
Higher production volumes from record copper and silver million, or 60.8 per cent, compared to last year.
This reflects higher production at Escondida Chile, record copper, silver and prices and volumes and an increased level of spot sales for iron molybdenum production at Antamina Peru, record zinc ore, as well as increased prices for metallurgical coal.
This was production at Cannington Australia and record gold production partially offset by lower prices for manganese alloy.
Higher at Tintaya Peru also led to increased earnings.
The inclusion of operating costs at all operations had an adverse impact during the Olympic Dams Australia results for the full period following its period and was largely attributable to higher contractor and labour acquisition in June 2005, also contributed positively.
The increase costs, price-linked royalty costs and fuel and energy costs.
was partially offset by higher price-linked treatment and refining Queensland Coal Australia also experienced extended charges TCRCs and price participation costs, charges for raw maintenance outages and a change in mine mix in the period materials, labour and contractors and higher depreciation costs following the closure of Riverside.
due to the commissioning of Escondida Norte.
A weaker A$ US$ exchange rate had a favourable impact, as did Reduced production at Cerro Colorado Chile following an the closure of the Boodarie Iron plant, announced in June 2005. earthquake in June 2005 also had an unfavourable impact, The same period last year included care and maintenance costs for although this was partially mitigated by business interruption the plant, while there was no impact in the current period as all insurance.
anticipated closure costs were provided for in June 2005.
Certain base metal sales agreements provide for provisional Depreciation charges increased as new projects were pricing based on the LME official price prior to shipment.
Final commissioned, as did exploration expenditure to support a higher settlement is based on the average applicable price for a specified level of exploration activity largely at Maruwai Indonesia.
The common market quotational periods Earnings on freight activities were lower.
on sales are the average of the calendar month after the month of Exploration expenditure incurred and expensed was US$71 million shipment for cathode, and the average of two to four calendar in 2005-06 compared with US$38 million in the prior year.
months after the month of shipment for concentrate.
We record revenue upon the transfer of risk and title using the applicable sales contracts price typically the provisional price.
During the year, the revenue was adjusted to fair value using the forward curve until final pricing is determined.
We consider this approach appropriate to measure the fair value of the relevant sales agreements at period end.
The impact of provisional pricing of copper shipments with a rising LME price favourably impacted finalised and outstanding average copper revenues by US$0.37 lb over the LME average.
Average copper revenue for 2006 was US$2.66 lb versus US$1.51 lb in 2005.
Outstanding copper volumes, subject to the fair value measurement previously described, amounted to 274,280 tonnes at 30 June 2006 compared BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 89 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 90 3.
Operating and financial review and prospects continued Diamonds and Specialty Products Stainless Steel Materials Revenue, together with our share of jointly controlled entities Revenue was US$3.0 billion in 2005-06, an increase of US$0.7 revenues, was US$1.3 billion during 2005-06, a decrease of billion, or 30.4 per cent, compared with US$2.3 billion in 2004-05.
US$0.2 billion, or 16.3 per cent, compared with 2004-05.
Our share Nickel production increased to 174,900 tonnes in 2005-06, of of jointly controlled entities revenue decreased from US$0.8 billion which 38,400 tonnes was matte from Nickel West, an increase of to US$0.4 billion principally due to the disposal in the prior year of 90.3 per cent compared with 91,900 tonnes in the prior year when our interest in Integris Metals Inc. we only included its production for June.
Nickel West operations EKATI diamond production decreased by 29 per cent compared contributed 100,100 tonnes for the current year compared with with the corresponding period, mainly reflecting the processing of 9,200 tonnes for the month of June 2005.
Cerro Matoso SA lower grade ore. Colombia production was a record 51,500 tonnes in 2005-06 compared to 51,300 tonnes in the prior year.
However, this was EBIT was US$300 million, a decrease of US$225 million or 42.9 per offset by lower production at the QNI Yabulu refinery Australia.
cent compared with last year.
There were no exceptional items in the current or prior year.
Underlying EBIT was US$345 million, a EBIT was US$901 million, an increase of US$47 million or 5.5 per decrease of US$215 million, or 38.4 per cent, compared to last cent compared with last year.
The 2005 year included exceptional year.
This was due to a lower value per carat for diamonds down items of US$142 million before tax in relation to the disposal of 24 per cent from last year because of lower carat quality and the chrome operations.
There were higher unit costs in relation to the processing of lower grade no exceptional items in the current year.
Underlying EBIT was material and moving to underground mining areas at EKATI US$901 million, an increase of US$189 million, or 26.5 per cent, Canada.
The prior year included six months of earnings and the compared with last year.
The inclusion of a full year of results from profit on sale from Integris Metals US, which was sold in January the Nickel West operations Australia, acquired in June 2005, as 2005.
However, the inclusion of a full year of earnings from well as a US$61 million profit on the sale of BHP Billitons interest Southern Cross Fertiliser operations acquired in June 2005 was in the Wonderkop joint venture effective November 2005 were key positive, as was higher sales volumes for diamonds and titanium factors in the increased result.
The impact of slightly higher feedstock and a reduced depreciation charge primarily as a result average realised nickel prices was partially offset by decreased of an extension of mine life following approval of the Koala prices for cobalt.
The average LME nickel price was US$7.03 lb underground project.
versus US$6.78 lb in the comparative period.
At EKATI, the 2007 financial year will be another transition year Negative impacts included lower production and higher fuel costs from open-cut to underground mining, which will be negatively at the QNI Yabulu refinery as a result of lower operational impacted by lower value diamond production.
In the medium term, performance, tie-in activity relating to the refinery expansion and increasing underground production from Panda and Koala will help delays to its gas conversion project.
Offsetting the Underlying EBIT restore profitability to historical levels.
increase was US$113 million included in the prior year relating to earnings from the Groups chrome operations, which were sold Energy Coal effective 1 June 2005.
Revenue, together with our share of jointly controlled entities Group and unallocated items revenues, was US$3.3 billion, a decrease of US$0.1 billion, or 2.0 per cent, over the prior year.
Our share of jointly controlled This category represents corporate activities including Group entities revenue remained at US$0.4 billion.
Treasury, Freight, Transport and Logistics operations and our Exploration and Technology activities.
These corporate activities Production was 85.8 million tonnes in 2005-06, a decrease of 1.8 produced a loss before net finance costs and taxation of US$358 per cent compared with 87.4 million tonnes in the prior year.
This million in 2005-06, compared to a loss of US$263 million in the reflects lower production at Ingwe South Africa and Hunter Valley prior year.
This was partially offset by increased production at the Colombian operation.
Corporate operating costs, excluding exchange impacts, were US$251 million compared to US$147 million in the prior year, an EBIT was US$270 million, a decrease of US$187 million, or 40.9 per increase of US$104 million.
This was due primarily to higher net cent, compared with last year.
The 2005 year included exceptional insurance costs of US$55 million associated with insurance claims items of US$73 million before tax in relation to decommissioning arising from natural disasters and incidents.
In addition, higher and site rehabilitation plans for closed mines at Ingwe, refer to costs relating to corporate projects, sponsorships and regulatory Exceptional items above.
There were no exceptional items in the compliance, including Sarbanes-Oxley, contributed approximately current year.
Underlying EBIT was US$327 million, a decrease of US$32 million.
US$260 million, or 44.3 per cent, compared with last year.
Higher fuel and operating costs across all operations, adverse inflationary Lower one-off costs in relation to the acquisition of WMC had a movements, particularly in South Africa, and higher freight costs favourable impact in the current period, partially offset by a gain were key contributors to the reduced result.
Costs increased at in 2004-05 in relation to the close out of the cash settled Ingwe South Africa largely due to higher depreciation resulting derivatives contracts on the acquisition of WMC shares.
from changed estimates of the economic lives of certain Minerals exploration expenditure has increased from US$67 million underground export operations and the depreciation of to US$115 million, mainly due to increased exploration activity in rehabilitation assets.
Increased demurrage at Cerrejon Coal Africa and Brazil.
This was offset by the profit on the sale of an Colombia and lower yields and equipment availability combined option held over an exploration property in Pakistan, which with increased strip ratios at Hunter Valley Coal Australia also led contributed US$60 million.
Third party sales The cessation of earnings from the Zululand Anthracite Colliery following its divestment during the year had a negative impact on We differentiate sales of our production from sales of third party the result, while a favourable movement of the rand against the products due to the significant difference in profit margin earned US dollar had a positive impact.
The table below shows the breakdown between our production which includes marketing of equity production Exploration expenditure incurred and capitalised was US$81 million and third party products.
in 2005-06, including US$76 million for the Caroona Australia exploration licence.
This compared with exploration expenditure incurred and capitalised of US$2 million in the prior year.
90 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 91 a Year ended 30 June 2006 2005 US$M US$M b Group production Revenue, together with share of jointly controlled entities revenue 34,139 24,759 Related operating costs 19,579 15,602 Operating profit 14,560 9,157 c Margin 42.6% 37.0% b Third party products Revenue, together with share of jointly controlled entities revenue 4,960 6,391 Related operating costs 4,849 6,277 Operating profit 111 11 4 c Margin 2.2% 1.8% a Excluding exceptional items.
b Including share of jointly controlled entities.
c Operating profit divided by revenue.
We engage in third party product trading for two reasons: In providing solutions for our customers, sometimes products are provided that we do not produce, such as a particular grade of coal.
To do this, physical product is bought from and sold to third parties to meet customer needs, and manage risk through both the physical and financial markets.
The active presence in the commodity markets provides us with physical market insight and commercial knowledge.
From time to time we actively engage in these markets in order to take commercial advantage of business opportunities.
These trading activities provide not only a source of revenue, but also a further insight into planning and can, in some cases, give rise to business development opportunities.
Comparison to results under US GAAP As described above, our financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS, which differ in certain aspects from US GAAP.
A number of the differences arise from the fact that, under IFRS, the DLC merger has been accounted for as a merger pooling of interest, whereas under US GAAP, the DLC merger is accounted for as a purchase of the BHP Billiton Plc Group by the BHP Billiton Limited Group.
The table below outlines the net adjustments to profit and equity between IFRS and US GAAP.
2006 2005 US$M US$M Profit attributable to members of BHP Billiton Group in accordance with IFRS 10,450 6,396 Adjustments 667 8 Net income of BHP Billiton Group in accordance with US GAAP 9,783 6,388 Total equity in accordance with IFRS 24,218 17, 5 75 Adjustments 3,621 4,429 Total equity in accordance with US GAAP 27,839 22,004 For a detailed description of significant differences between IFRS and the results under US GAAP see note 39 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures in the financial statements.
Liquidity and capital resources Cash flow from operations is our principal source of cash.
We also raise cash from debt financing to fund significant capital As a result of our ability to increase mineral production in an expenditures such as our acquisition of WMC in June 2005, to environment of historically high resource prices over the past manage temporary fluctuations in liquidity requirements such as several years, we have generated very strong cash flows from our the payment of dividends or share buy-backs, and to refinance mining and oil and gas operations.
These cash flows have been existing debt.
fundamental to our ability to fund our existing operations, maintain a high rate of investment in growth projects, and return Our principal uses of cash are to fund our existing operations, capital to shareholders through dividends and share buy-backs.
which includes paying suppliers and employees and capital Through a combination of borrowings and payments to expenditure to maintain our assets, and to fund expansion shareholders, we manage our balance sheet to maintain levels of projects.
In addition, over the last few years we have returned gearing that we believe optimise our cost of capital and return on significant amounts of cash to our shareholders through dividends capital employed.
Operating and financial review and prospects continued Cash flow analysis Net operating cash flow after interest and tax increased by 25.1 per cent to US$10,476 million in 2005-06 from US$8,374 million in 2004- 05.
Higher profits increased cash generated from operating activities, offset by an increase in working capital principally due to higher profits and increased taxation payments.
Capital and exploration expenditure totalled US$6,005 million for the period.
Expenditure on major growth projects amounted to US$3,292 million, including US$655 million on petroleum projects and US$2,637 million on minerals projects.
Other capital expenditure on maintenance, sustaining and minor capital items was US$1,947 million.
Investment cash flow included US$596 million primarily due to the purchase of the remaining shares to complete the WMC acquisition.
Financing cash flows include the US$2.0 billion capital management program completed in May 2006 and increased dividend payments.
Our cash flow statements for the years ended 30 June 2006 and 2005 are summarised below.
The full consolidated cash flow statement is contained in the financial statements.
2006 2005 US$M US$M Cash generated from operations 11,994 9,624 Dividends received 2,671 1,002 Net interest received paid 378 225 Taxation payments 3,811 2,027 Net operating cash flows 10,476 8,374 Cash outflows from investing activities 6,601 10,221 Net proceeds from investing activities 1,089 1,055 Net investing cash flows 5,512 9,166 Net proceeds from repayment of interest bearing liabilities 1,101 3,933 Share buy-back 2,028 1,792 Dividends paid 2,126 1,642 Other financing activities 157 3 Net financing cash flows 5,412 496 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 448 296 Growth projects We continue our strategy of delivering value enhancing growth with the completion of four and approval of seven major growth projects during the year.
The seven new projects have an expected cost of US$5.0 billion BHP Billiton share, bringing our current project pipeline to 23 projects with an expected investment of US$13.8 billion.
Despite continued cost and schedule challenges to the delivery of our project pipeline, we remain confident in the value these projects will deliver to our shareholders given market fundamentals, the need for new supply and our stringent approval and monitoring processes.
Completed projects 1 2 Capital expenditure US$M Date of initial production 1 Customer Sector Group Project Capacity Budget Actual Target Actual Aluminium Worsley Development 250,000 tonnes per 165 165 Q1 2006 Q2 2006 Capital Projects annum of alumina Australia 100% BHP Billiton 86% Base Metals Escondida Norte Maintain capacity at 230 251 Q4 2005 Q4 2005 Chile 1.25 million tonnes BHP Billiton 57.5% per annum of copper 100% Escondida Sulphide 180,000 tonnes per 500 500 H2 2006 Q2 2006 Leach Chile annum of copper BHP Billiton 57.5% cathode 100% Carbon Steel WA Iron Ore RGP2 Increase system 489 489 H2 2006 Q2 2006 Materials Australia capacity to 118 million BHP Billiton 85% tonnes per annum 100% 1,384 1,405 1 All references to capital expenditure and capacity are BHP Billitons share unless otherwise noted.
Escondida Norte was delivered to budget in local currency.
Costing is yet to be finalised on the three remaining projects.
2 References to quarters and half years are based on calendar years.
There are 13 major projects defined as BHP Billitons share of capital expenditure of greater than US$100 million under development with a total budgeted investment of US$9,503 million.
92 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 93 Projects approved during the year Budgeted capital Target date expenditure for initial 1 2 Customer Sector Group Project Capacity US$M production Petroleum Shenzi US 100,000 barrels of oil and 50 million BHP Billiton 44% cubic feet of gas per day 100% 1,940 Mid 2009 Stybarrow Australia 80,000 barrels of liquids per day BHP Billiton 50% 100% 300 Q1 2008 North West Shelf Angel 800 million cubic feet of gas per day Australia 100% BHP Billiton 16.67% 200 End 2008 Aluminium Alumar refinery expansion 2 million tonnes per annum of alumina Brazil 100% BHP Billiton 36% 518 Mid 2008 Carbon Steel Materials WA Iron Ore RGP3 Australia 20 million tonnes per annum of BHP Billiton 85% iron ore 100% 1,300 Q4 2007 Samarco Brazil 7.6 million tonnes per annum of BHP Billiton 50% iron pellets 100% 590 H1 2008 Diamonds and Specialty Koala underground Canada 3,300 tonnes per day of ore Products BHP Billiton 80% processed 100% 200 Q3 2007 5,048 1 All references to capital expenditure and capacity are BHP Billitons share unless noted otherwise.
Projects currently under development approved in prior years Budgeted capital Target date expenditure for initial 1 1 2 Customer Sector Group Project Capacity US$M production Petroleum Atlantis South US 200,000 barrels of oil and 180 million Under 3 BHP Billiton 44% cubic feet of gas per day 100% 1,115 review Neptune US 50,000 barrels of oil and 50 million BHP Billiton 35% cubic feet of gas per day 100% 300 End 2007 North West Shelf 5th Train LNG processing capacity 4.2 million Australia tonnes per annum 100% 3 3 BHP Billiton 16.7% 250 Late 2008 Base Metals Spence Chile 200,000 tonnes per annum of BHP Billiton 100% copper cathode 990 Q4 2006 Stainless Steel Materials Ravensthorpe Nickel Australia Up to 50,000 tonnes per annum of 3 3 BHP Billiton 100% contained nickel in concentrate 1,340 Q2 2007 Yabulu Extension Australia 45,000 tonnes per annum of nickel BHP Billiton 100% 460 Q3 2007 4,455 1 All references to capital expenditure and capacity are BHP Billitons share unless noted otherwise.
3 The Ravensthorpe Nickel Project in Western Australia and the Atlantis South development in the Gulf of Mexico are experiencing cost pressures of more than 30 per cent in excess of approved budgets.
As a result, a detailed review of the Ravensthorpe schedule and budget commenced during the last quarter of 2005-06.
The Atlantis South development schedule remains under review following last years hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico.
The project costs and schedule for the North West Shelf 5th Train Project are under review.
Operating and financial review and prospects continued Net debt and sources of liquidity In March 2005, we established a new US$5.5 billion acquisition finance facility with a syndicate of banks to finance the WMC Our policies on debt and treasury management are as follows: acquisition.
This facility had a US$3.0 billion 18-month tranche and commitment to a solid A credit rating a US$2.5 billion five-year tranche.
At 30 June 2006, the US$3.0 cash flow positive before dividends, debt service and any share billion 18-month tranche had been fully repaid and US$900 million buy-backs, excluding cash effects of major acquisitions was outstanding.
target a minimum interest cover ratio of eight times over the The interest rates of these facilities are based on an interbank rate commodity cycle plus a margin.
The applicable margin is typical for a credit facility maintain net gearing net debt net debt net assets of extended to a company with our credit rating.
A negative pledge 35 per cent to 40 per cent applies to both credit facilities.
flexibility from diversification of funding sources In October 2005 we filed a US$3.0 billion shelf registration generally maintain borrowings and excess cash in US dollars.
statement with the US Securities and Exchange Commission Solid A credit ratings SEC and in December 2005 issued an SEC registered Global Bond comprising US$600 million of 5.00 per cent Senior Notes due in The Groups credit ratings are currently A1 P-1 Moodys and 2010, and US$750 million of 5.25 per cent Senior Notes due in A A-1 Standard & Poors.
There has been no change to these 2015.
The proceeds were used to partially repay the financing ratings during the year.
arranged to fund the WMC acquisition and to repay commercial Interest rate risk paper.
Interest rate risk on our outstanding borrowings and investments In May 2006, we issued 650 million US$807 million of is managed as part of the Portfolio Risk Management Strategy.
4.125 per cent Euro Bonds due in 2011.
The proceeds were used to Refer to note 28 Financial instruments in the financial statements partially repay financing arranged to fund the WMC acquisition for more details on our Portfolio Risk Management Strategy.
and to repay commercial paper.
When required under this strategy, we use interest rate swaps, In addition to the foregoing, in June 2005 we increased our including cross currency interest rate swaps, to convert a fixed rate US dollar commercial paper program limit from US$2.0 billion exposure to a floating rate exposure or vice versa.
All interest to US$3.0 billion.
swaps have been designated and are effective as hedging instruments under IFRS.
None of our general borrowing facilities are subject to financial covenants.
Certain specific financing facilities in relation to specific Net gearing and net debt businesses are the subject of financial covenants that vary from facility to facility but which would be considered normal for such Net debt comprising cash and cash equivalents and interest bearing liabilities, was US$8.2 billion at 30 June 2006, a decrease facilities.
of US$0.5 billion, or 5.6 per cent compared to 30 June 2005.
Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk Gearing, which is the ratio of net debt to net debt plus net assets, was 25.2 per cent at 30 June 2006 compared with 32.8 per cent at We identified above in Our business external factors affecting 30 June 2005. our results our primary market risks.
A description of how we manage our market risks, including both quantitative and Underlying net debt which varies from net debt above as it qualitative information about our market risk sensitive instruments includes our share of net debt of jointly controlled entities was outstanding at 30 June 2006, is contained in note 28 Financial US$9.2 billion, down from US$10.0 billion at 30 June 2005. instruments to the financial statements.
Underlying gearing was 27.2 per cent at 30 June 2006 compared with 35.2 per cent at 30 June 2005.
Portfolio management Cash at bank and in hand less overdrafts at 30 June 2006 was Portfolio activities continued during 2005-06 with proceeds US$495 million compared with US$796 million at 30 June 2005. amounting to US$928 million realised.
We disposed of a number In addition, we had money market deposits at 30 June 2006 of of assets and interests including our Tintaya mine, our 50 per cent US$265 million compared with US$411 million at 30 June 2005. interest in the Wonderkop chrome joint venture, the Green Canyon 18 and 60 oil fields, our one-third interest in the Hi-Fert fertiliser Funding sources business Australia and our ownership of the Zululand Anthracite The maturity profile of our debt obligations is set forth under Colliery South Africa.
This brings the total proceeds realised on Tabular disclosure of contractual obligations below.
The following assets and interests over the last five years to US$5.6 billion.
table sets forth the maturity profile of our undrawn committed At 30 June 2006, we had also announced the sale of our Southern facilities as at 30 June 2006 and 2005.
Cross Fertiliser operations Australia, our Australian Coal Bed Methane assets Australia, our interest in the Valesul aluminium 2006 2005 smelter Brazil, our Cascade and Chinook oil and gas prospects Undrawn committed facilities US$M US$M US and the Koornfontein energy coal mine South Africa.
At 30 June 2006, final sale of these assets was subject to satisfying Expiring in one year or less certain conditions precedent and, as such, the assets were held in Expiring in more than two years 3,000 5,500 the balance sheet at the lower of carrying value and expected sale price, less costs to sell.
Completion of sale has now been achieved on the Southern Cross Fertiliser operations, Valesul, the Coal Bed In September 2004, our US$2.5 billion multi-currency revolving Methane assets and Cascade and Chinook.
credit facility was cancelled and replaced with a new US$2.0 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility maturing in September 2009.
In March 2005, this facility which is available for general corporate purposes was increased to US$3.0 billion.
As at 30 June 2006, this facility was undrawn.
94 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 11:31 PM Page 95 Dividend and capital management 2006 with the on-market buy-back of 1,500,000 BHP Billiton Plc shares.
These purchased shares will be held as treasury shares.
On 23 August 2006, the Board declared a final dividend of 18.5 US It is yet to be determined the extent to which the remaining cents per share.
This represents an increase of 27.6 per cent over buy-back will be an on or off-market transaction.
last years final dividend of 14.5 US cents per share, and this declaration brings the total dividends for the 2006 financial year to This program brings the total for buy-back programs to 36.0 US cents per share, an increase of 8.0 US cents per share, or US$5.0 billion for 2005-06 following the US$2.0 billion capital 28.6 per cent, over the 2005 year: our ninth consecutive dividend management program completed in May 2006.
We intend to continue with our progressive dividend initiative, 114.8 million shares, or 1.9 per cent of the issued share policy, with further increases dependent upon the expectations for capital of BHP Billiton, was repurchased.
future investment opportunities and market conditions.
We also At the conclusion of the US$3.0 billion initiative, we will have announced on 23 August 2006 a further capital return of US$3.0 returned US$15.5 billion in total to shareholders through capital billion to shareholders over the next 18 months through a series of initiatives and dividends since June 2001. share buy-backs.
We commenced this program on 7 September Off-balance sheet arrangements Information in relation to off-balance sheet arrangements, principally contingent liabilities, commitments for capital expenditure and other expenditure and commitments under leases, is provided below.
The following discussion describes our material off-balance sheet arrangements at 30 June 2006.
Contingent liabilities The following table sets forth our contingent liabilities not otherwise provided for in the accounts as at 30 June 2006.
Contingent c liabilities US$M a Jointly controlled entities unsecured other 355 Subsidiary and jointly controlled assets including guarantees Bank guarantees Performance guarantees 1 Letter of credit b Other 220 Total contingent liabilities 576 a The BHP Billiton Group has entered into various counter-indemnities of bank and performance guarantees related to its own future performance in the normal course of business.
b Other contingent liabilities relate predominantly to actual or potential litigation of the Group for which amounts are reasonably estimable but the liability is not probable and therefore we have not provided for such amounts in these financial statements.
The amounts relate to a number of actions against the Group, none of which are individually significant.
Additionally, there are a number of legal claims or potential claims against the Group, the outcomes of which cannot be foreseen at present, and for which no amounts have been included in the table above.
Details of the principal legal claims are set out in note 21 Provisions in the financial statements.
c For US GAAP reporting purposes, we are required to include as contingent liabilities amounts where 1 provisions have been made in the accounts but further amounts are reasonably possible, and 2 additional amounts to the guarantees included above where the probability of a transfer of economic benefits is considered to be remote.
Not included in the table above are Group performance guarantees of US$30 million 2005: US$30 million and US$333 million 2005: US$388 million in Other for which provisions have been included in the Group accounts.
Refer to note 29 Contingent liabilities and note 21 Provisions in the financial statements.
Operating and financial review and prospects continued Contractual obligations and commercial commitments The following table sets forth our contractual obligations and commercial commitments at 30 June 2006 broken down by varying maturities.
Amount of expiration per period US$M Total amounts Less than More than committed 1 year 13 years 35 years 5 years Expenditure commitments in relation to: Operating leases 945 297 312 178 158 Finance leases 101 7 20 13 61 Capital expenditure 3,251 2,588 508 155 Other commitments 4,990 1,064 1,478 1,058 1,390 9,287 3,956 2,318 1,404 1,609 Long-term debt and other financial obligations: 1 Unsecured bank loans, debentures and other loans 8,941 1,362 1,527 2,747 3,305 Redeemable preference shares 15 15 2 Other creditors financial instruments 4,059 3,916 143 13,015 5,278 1,670 2,747 3,320 Total contractual obligations and commercial commitments 22,302 9,234 3,988 4,151 4,929 1 Excludes our finance leases as these commitments are included separately in the above table.
Additional details regarding the split of our long-term debt obligations are provided in note 28 Financial instruments in the financial statements.
Refer to Liquidity and capital resources for further discussion regarding our debt obligations.
2 Additional details regarding our financial instruments are provided in note 28 Financial instruments in the financial statements.
Commitments under leases Commitments for other expenditure We enter into operating leases as a means of acquiring access to Our commitments for other expenditure relate mainly to supply various property, plant and equipment and we have finance leases of goods and services US$4.5 billion, royalty payments US$0.1 which predominantly relate to the dry bulk carrier Iron Yandi, billion, exploration expenditure US$0.3 billion and chartering power lines, mobile equipment and vehicles.
We expect that these contractual commitments for expenditure, together with other expenditure Commitments for capital expenditure and liquidity requirements, will be met from internal cash flow Our contractual capital commitments relate mainly to the and, to the extent necessary, from external sources.
Petroleum CSG in connection with developments in the Gulf of Significant changes Mexico US$1.2 billion : the Aluminium CSG US$0.1 billion : the Base Metals CSG in relation to Spence US$0.2 billion : the Carbon Subsequent to 30 June 2006, the sale of our 45.5 per cent joint Steel Materials CSG in relation to RGP3 US$0.6 billion : and the venture interest in Valesul Aluminio SA, an aluminium smelter, the Stainless Steel Materials CSG in relation to Ravensthorpe and the sale of Southern Cross Fertilisers Pty Ltd, a fertiliser mining and Yabulu Expansion US$0.7 billion and the Nickel West Mt Keith processing business, the sale of the Cascade and Chinook oil and overburden removal US$0.2 billion.
Of the total US$3.3 billion, gas prospects, and the sale of the Coal Bed Methane assets have US$2.6 billion is expected to be expended in the year ending been finalised.
These assets are classified as held for sale as at 30 June 2007.
We expect that these contractual commitments for 30 June 2006.
The financial effects of these transactions have not expenditure, together with other expenditure and liquidity been brought to account at 30 June 2006. requirements, will be met from internal cash flow and, to the extent necessary, from the existing facilities described under Liquidity and capital resources above or new facilities on similar terms.
