5041 BHPB AR06 Pt2 13 9 06 10:11 PM Page 256 Information for Shareholders Information for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc shareholders Annual General Meetings this year is provided in the BHP Billiton Group Annual Review 2006 and The Annual General Meeting of BHP Billiton Plc will be held at the the Annual Report 2006.
Royal Horticultural Halls, Lindley Hall, Elverton Street, London SW1P 2PE, UK on Thursday, 26 October 2006 commencing at The Annual Review contains key information about the BHP Billiton 10.30 am.
The Annual Report provides more detailed financial data and information on the BHP Billiton Groups performance.
The Annual General Meeting of BHP Billiton Limited will be held at the Brisbane Convention and Exhibition Centre, corner Merivale and The summary financial statements and notes included in the Annual Glenelg Streets, South Bank, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia on Review cannot provide as full an understanding of the financial Wednesday, 29 November 2006 at 10.30 am.
performance, position, and funding and investing activities of the BHP Billiton Group as the full financial statements included in the Details of the business of the meeting are contained in the separate Annual Report.
Shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Notice of Meeting enclosed with this Annual Report.
Plc will receive the Annual Review unless they have opted to receive the Annual Report.
Please also refer to Access your Annual Review Enquiries and Annual Report on the web below.
Shareholders who wish to contact BHP Billiton on any matter relating to their share or ADR holdings are invited to telephone the appropriate Dividend payments office of the BHP Billiton Share Registrar listed on the inside back cover BHP Billiton Limited shareholders may receive cash dividends paid of this Annual Report.
directly into any bank, building society or credit union for Australian Shareholders can also access their current shareholding details through shareholders, any bank or building society for UK shareholders and any the Shareholder Services link located under Investor & Media on bank nominated by shareholders in New Zealand or the United States.
com you will need your Shareholders from those locations above who do not provide their Shareholder Reference Number or Holder Identification Number to direct credit details and shareholders with registered addresses outside access this information.
Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States will receive dividend payments by way of an Australian currency cheque.
Access your Annual Review or Annual Report on the web BHP Billiton Plc shareholders may have their dividends paid directly BHP Billiton offers an alternative for shareholders who wish to be into a bank or building society account.
Please contact the BHP Billiton advised of the availability of the Annual Review and Annual Report Share Registrar in the UK or South Africa, as appropriate, for a through the Companys website via an email notification refer dividend mandate form.
When you close your account or amend your banking arrangements, By providing an email address through our website on the internet, it is essential you notify the appropriate BHP Billiton Share Registrar of shareholders will receive by email a direct link to the Annual Review the new details.
and Annual Report, when those documents have been released.
Shareholders will also receive notification of other major BHP Billiton Dividend determination announcements by email.
The US dollar, in which the majority of the Groups sales are made, most reliably records the Groups global business performance and is How to set up email notification BHP Billitons main reporting currency.
It is, therefore, the currency in Enter BHP Billiton website www.
com and click onto which dividends are determined.
BHP Billitons dividends are declared Investor & Media then Shareholder Services.
Under the heading in US dollars and converted for BHP Billiton Plc into sterling for Provide Your Email Address click on the appropriate link.
shareholders on the principal register in the UK and into rand for You will be requested to enter your Securityholder Shareholder shareholders on the branch register in South Africa.
BHP Billiton Reference Number or Holder Identification Number and postcode or Limited dividends are also declared in US dollars and converted into country code.
This sign-on requirement is a security access validation Australian dollars, sterling, New Zealand dollars or US dollars.
prior to entering your email address under Electronic Shareholder Communication.
Change of address After confirmation of your email address you will receive notification It is important that shareholders notify the appropriate BHP Billiton of the availability of future Annual Reviews and Annual Reports and Share Registrar in writing immediately if there is a change to their other major BHP Billiton announcements by email.
For the protection of shareholders, instructions to BHP Billitons Share Registrar need to be in writing and show the Key Dates for Shareholders Shareholder Reference Number SRN.
Shareholders on the BHP Billiton Limited CHESS sub-register should forward the change of address Date Event advice to their sponsoring broker quoting the Holder Identification 27 September 2006 Payment Date for Final Dividend Number HIN.
26 October 2006 BHP Billiton Plc Annual General Meeting Dematerialised holdings under STRATE in London South African shareholders 29 November 2006 BHP Billiton Ltd Annual General Meeting If you hold shares dematerialised into STRATE, you should contact in Brisbane your CSDP or stockbroker regarding the customer service items mentioned above.
7 February 2007 Interim Results Announced 2 March 2007 Interim Dividend Record Date Stock exchange listings 20 March 2007 Interim Dividend Payment Date BHP Billiton Limited is listed on stock exchanges in Australia, Germany Frankfurt, Switzerland Zurich and the US New York.
22 August 2007 Annual Results Announced BHP Billiton Plc is listed on stock exchanges in the UK London, South Africa Johannesburg and the US New York.
If there are any changes to these dates, all stock exchanges where BHP Billiton Ltd and BHP Billiton Plc are listed will be notified.
Trading on the New York Stock Exchange is via American Depositary Shares each representing two Ordinary shares evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank.
The trustees and dividend-paying banks for internationally registered shares are shown on the inside back cover of this Annual Report.
