Information on the Company History and development of BHP Billiton We divide our business into seven business units, or Customer Sector Groups CSGs : We are the worlds largest diversified resources group with a Petroleum, which explores for, produces, processes and markets combined market capitalisation of approximately US$122.8 billion hydrocarbons including oil, gas and liquefied natural gas as of 30 June 2006 and we generated revenue, together with our share of jointly controlled entities revenue and profit attributable Aluminium, which explores for and mines bauxite and processes to members of BHP Billiton of US$39.1 billion and US$10.5 billion and markets aluminium and alumina respectively for the year ended 30 June 2006.
Base Metals, which explores for, mines, processes and markets copper, silver, zinc, lead, uranium, and copper by-products Since June 2001, we have operated under a Dual Listed Companies including gold and molybdenum DLC structure.
Under the DLC structure, the two parent Carbon Steel Materials, which explores for, mines, processes and companies, BHP Billiton Limited formerly BHP Limited, and before markets metallurgical coal, iron ore and manganese used in the that The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited and BHP Billiton production of carbon steel Plc formerly Billiton Plc operate as a single economic entity, run by a unified Board and management team.
More details of the DLC Diamonds and Specialty Products, which explores for and mines structure are located under Organisational structure.
diamonds and titanium minerals, and also includes our recentlysold fertiliser operations BHP Billiton Limited was incorporated in 1885 and is registered in Energy Coal, which explores for, mines, processes and markets Australia with ABN 49 004 028 077.
BHP Billiton Plc was energy coal for use in electricity generation incorporated in 1996 and is registered in England and Wales with Stainless Steel Materials, which explores for, mines, processes registration number 3196209. and markets nickel, which is used in the production of stainless The registered office of BHP Billiton Limited is at 180 Lonsdale steel.
Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000, Australia, and its telephone In addition to the seven CSGs, we also have a minerals exploration number is 61 3 9609 3333.
The registered office of BHP Billiton group, a technology group and a freight, transport and logistics Plc is Neathouse Place, London SW1V1BH, UK, and its telephone operation.
The tables below list the contribution to revenue from number is 44 20 7802 4000. each of these CSGs and by geographic market for the years ended 30 June 2006 and 30 June 2005.
Further details of the contribution from each of these CSGs to our revenues and profits are outlined in the Operating and financial review and prospects section.
Information on the Company continued Business overview Petroleum Customer Sector Group Our Petroleum CSGs principal activities are oil and natural gas in Japan, Korea and the US, with the level of spot sales dependent exploration, production and development in Australia, the United upon plant and shipping availability.
In December 2004, an LNG Kingdom, the United States, Algeria, Trinidad and Tobago and sales and purchase agreement with the Guangdong LNG Project Pakistan.
We group our petroleum assets for reporting purposes for the purchase and supply of LNG from the North West Shelf into the following regions: Australia Asia, Americas, and became unconditional and sales under the contract commenced Europe Africa Middle East.
We produce and market crude oil and in mid 2006. condensates, natural gas, liquefied natural gas, liquefied Americas petroleum gas and ethane.
Our operations in the Americas consist of interests in five Total production in 2005-06 was 116.0 million barrels of oil producing assets in the Gulf of Mexico operations and the equivalent, compared with total production in 2004-05 of Angostura project off Trinidad and Tobago.
Our operating fields 119.0 million barrels of oil equivalent.
in the Gulf of Mexico are Mad Dog, West Cameron 76, Mustang, Genesis and Starlifter.
We also own 25 per cent and 22 per cent Australia Asia respectively in the companies that own and operate the Caesar oil In Australia, we produce oil and gas from Bass Strait, the North pipeline and the Cleopatra gas pipeline, which transport oil and West Shelf, the Griffin Project, the Minerva gas field and the gas from the Green Canyon area to connecting pipelines that Moranbah Coal Bed Methane CBM gas project with the Bass transport product to the US mainland.
Strait and North West Shelf being the major fields.
In Asia, we produce gas and a small volume of condensate from the Zamzama During the year, we sold Green Canyon 18 Ewing Bank 988 and gas field in Pakistan.
Green Canyon 60 blocks with effect from 1 September 2005.
The transactions closed in December 2005 and January 2006 The majority of our Bass Strait crude oil and condensate respectively.
production is dispatched from the Bass Strait fields to refineries along the east coast of Australia.
The majority of the natural gas Our activities in the Gulf of Mexico were affected by the severe produced was sold to GASCOR, under a long-term Consumer Price hurricanes in September 2005.
Both Hurricanes Katrina and Rita Index CPI indexed contract with periodic price reviews, for interrupted production for several days and Rita severely damaged on-sale to retailers to meet local residential, commercial and our Typhoon facility.
We decided not to redevelop Typhoon, Boris industrial requirements.
The GASCOR contract is due to expire on and Little Burn tie-back field but rather pursue divestiture options.
31 December 2009 or upon depletion of the outstanding On 18 August 2006, Energy Resource Technology, a wholly-owned contractual volume, whichever is the earlier.
Similar contracts have subsidiary of Helix Energy Solutions, acquired a 100 per cent been executed with AGL and TRUenergy that will extend gas working interest in the Typhoon, Boris and Little Burn oil fields.
supply to these two retailers until 2017.
The agreement is subject to regulatory approval.
The domestic gas phase of the North West Shelf Project delivers Europe Africa Middle East gas via pipeline to the Western Australian domestic market under Our Europe Africa Middle East producing assets include our fields long-term contracts.
Significant portions of the liquefied natural off the UK coast and two operations in Algeria.
In the UK, we gas LNG expansion phase production are sold per year to produce oil and gas from Liverpool Bay and Bruce Keith fields.
Japanese buyers under long-term contracts, which expire at In Algeria, we produce wet gas from Ohanet and oil from ROD various periods in three to 28 years.
Medium-term terms of integrated development.
three to five years contract and spot sales are made to buyers Information on Petroleum operations Detailed descriptions of our producing assets by geographical region are listed in the table below.
These tables should be read in conjunction with the production and reserve tables.
Name, location and type of asset Ownership and operation Title lease Facilities AUSTRALIA ASIA Bass Strait We hold a 50% interest in the The venture holds 19 production licences There are 20 producing fields with Bass Strait fields.
issued by the Commonwealth of Australia 21 offshore developments 14 steel jacket Offshore Victoria, with expiry dates ranging between 2009 platforms, three subsea developments, Australia Esso Australia owns the other and 2018. two steel gravity based mono towers and 50% interest and is the operator.
Oil and gas production two concrete gravity based platforms.
Onshore infrastructure includes the Longford Facility, which includes three gas plants and liquid processing facilities as well as the Long Island Point LPG and crude oil storage facilities.
The Bass Strait production capacity is as follows: Crude 500 Mbbl d Gas 1,075 MMcf d LPG 5,150 tonnes per day Ethane 850 tonnes per day 12 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 13 Information on Petroleum operations continued Name, location and type of asset Ownership and operation Title lease Facilities AUSTRALIA ASIA continued North West Shelf We are a participant in the North The venture holds nine production licences Production from the North Rankin and NWS gas and gas West Shelf NWS Project, an issued by the Commonwealth of Australia, Perseus fields is currently through the North liquids LPG and unincorporated joint venture.
of which six expire in 2022 and three expire Rankin A platform, which has the capacity to condensate five years after the end of production.
produce 2,300 MMcf d of gas and 53 Mbbl d The Project was developed in major of condensate.
North Rankin, phases: the domestic gas phase, Goodwyn, Perseus, which supplies gas to the Western Production from the Goodwyn and Echo-Yodel and Angel Australian domestic market: and a Echo-Yodel fields is through the Goodwyn fields offshore, Dampier number of LNG expansion phases, A platform, which has the capacity to in northwestern which currently supply LNG produce 1,450 MMcf d of gas and 110 Australia primarily to Japan and also supply Mbbl d of condensate.
Further development LNG to Guangdong in China.
of the existing Perseus field has commenced Gas, LPG and and includes the drilling of additional wells condensate production We hold 8.33% of the original tied into the Goodwyn A platform.
and LNG liquefication domestic gas joint venture, 16.67% of the LPG domestic gas An onshore gas treatment plant at Withnell joint venture, 16.67% of the Bay has a current capacity to process original LNG joint venture, 615 MMcf d of gas for the domestic market.
12.5% of the China LNG joint An existing four train LNG plant has the venture, 16.67% of the LPG joint capacity to produce an average rate of venture and approximately 15% of 33,000 tonnes of LNG per day.
Other participants in the respective NWS joint ventures are subsidiaries of Woodside Energy, Chevron, BP, Shell, Mitsubishi Mitsui and the China National Offshore Oil Corporation.
Woodside Energy is the operator of the project.
North West Shelf We hold a 16.67% working The venture holds three production licences The oil is produced to a floating production crude oil interest in oil production from issued by the Commonwealth of Australia storage and offloading unit, the Cossack these fields.
with expiry dates ranging between 2012 Pioneer, which has a capacity of 140 Mbbl d Approximately and 2018. and a storage capacity of 1.15 million barrels 30 kilometres northeast The other 83.33% is held in equal of crude oil.
of the North Rankin gas 16.67% shares by Woodside and condensate field, Energy, BP Developments offshore Western Australia, Chevron Australia, Shell Australia, Australia Development, and Japan Australia LNG MIMI.
Crude oil production is from the Wanaea, Woodside Energy is the operator Cossack, Lambert and of the project.
Hermes oil fields Griffin We hold a 45% interest in the The venture holds a production licence Oil and gas are produced via the Griffin project.
The other 55% is held by issued by the Commonwealth of Australia venture, a floating production, storage and Carnarvon Basin, Mobil Exploration and Producing that expires in 2014.
The licence may be offloading facility.
We pipe natural gas to 68 kilometres offshore Australia 35% and Inpex Alpha renewed on expiry for a period expiring shore, where it is delivered directly into a Western Australia, 20%.
five years after production ceases.
Australia We are the operator of the The Griffin venture has the capacity to Comprises the Griffin, project.
produce 15 MMcf d of gas and 8.175 Mbbl d Chinook and Scindian of crude oil.
offshore oil and gas fields Minerva We hold a 90% share of Minerva The venture holds a production licence The Minerva development consists of two in a joint venture agreement.
issued by the Commonwealth of Australia subsea well completions in 60 metres of Approximately that expires in 2023.
A single flowline transports gas to an 10 kilometres offshore The other 10% is held by Santos renewed on expiry for a period expiring onshore gas processing facility with a gas in the Otway Basin of BOL.
capacity of 150 MMcf d and 600 bbl d of Victoria, Australia We are the operator of the field.
Single offshore gas reservoir with two compartments.
Gas plant is situated approximately 4 kilometres inland from Port Campbell Moranbah We had a 50% interest.
The venture held two production licences The project consists of approximately issued by the State of Queensland that 70 gas wells and surface facilities including a Bowen Basin, On 21 June 2006, we agreed to expire in 2032 and 2034. pipeline gathering system and compressors.
Queensland, Australia sell our Australian CBM interests to The Australian Gas Light Coal bed methane coal Company AGL for US$68.7 seam million.
The transaction closed on 21 August 2006.
Information on the Company continued Information on Petroleum operations continued Name, location and type of asset Ownership and operation Title lease Facilities AUSTRALIA ASIA continued Zamzama We hold a 38.5% working interest Development and production lease from The Zamzama project currently consists of in the joint venture.
The other the Government of Pakistan with an five production wells and three process Dadu Block, Sindh 61.5% is owned by ENI Pakistan option to extend five years beyond the trains, with a total capacity of 350 MMcf d Province, Pakistan M Ltd 17.75%, PKP Exploration 20-year term.
Onshore gas wells Ltd a jointly owned company between Kufpec and Premier Oil 18.75% and Government Holdings 25%.
AMERICAS West Cameron 76 We hold a 33.76% working The venture holds a lease from the US as The production facility consists of two interest in the joint venture.
long as oil and gas are produced in paying conventional gas platforms with a capacity Gulf of Mexico, quantities.
of 100 MMcf d of gas and 500 bbl d of 15 kilometres offshore, The other owners are Dominion condensate.
Central Louisiana, US Exploration and Production 40%, Merit Management Partners 15% Offshore gas and and Ridgewood Energy Company condensate fields 11.24%.
Typhoon Green We had a 50% working interest.
The venture holds a lease from the US until The field consists of four subsea wells tied Canyon 236 and 237 September 2006, at which time a plan for back to a local host mini tension leg As described above, an agreement redevelopment is required to retain the platform.
The platform was severely Gulf of Mexico, to sell the Typhoon field was lease.
damaged by Hurricane Rita in September approximately 100 executed on 18 August 2006.
2005 and has since been taken out of kilometres offshore of service.
New Orleans, Louisiana, US Deep water oil and gas field Boris Green Canyon We had a 50% working interest The venture holds a lease from the US until Boris was developed as a tie-back to the 282 and operated the asset.
September 2006, at which time a plan for Typhoon production facility, which was redevelopment is required to retain the severely damaged by Hurricane Rita in Gulf of Mexico As described above, an agreement lease.
September 2005 and has since been taken adjacent to the to sell the Boris field was executed out of service.
Typhoon field on 18 August 2006. approximately 100 kilometres offshore of New Orleans, Louisiana, US Deep water oil and gas field Genesis Green We hold a 4.95% working The venture holds a lease from the US as The production facility consists of a floating Canyon 205 interest.
long as oil and gas are produced in paying cylindrical hull spar moored to the seabed quantities.
with integrated drilling facilities and a Gulf of Mexico, The other owners are Chevron capacity of 55 Mbbl d of oil and 72 MMcf d approximately 100 56.67% and ExxonMobil of gas.
of New Orleans, Chevron is the operator.
Louisiana, US Deep water oil and gas field Starlifter West We hold a 30.95% working The venture holds a lease from the US as The field development consists of a single Cameron 77 interest in the joint venture.
long as oil and gas are produced in paying conventional gas platform with a capacity of quantities.
30 MMcf d of gas and 300 bbl d of Gulf of Mexico, The other owners are Newfield condensate.
15 kilometres offshore, Exploration 45%, Merit Central Louisiana, US Management Partners 13.75% and Ridgewood Energy Company Offshore gas and 10.3%.
condensate field Newfield Exploration is the operator.
Mustang West We hold a 43.66% working The venture holds a lease from the US as The field development consists of a single Cameron 77 interest in the joint venture.
40 MMcf d of gas and 600 bbl d of Gulf of Mexico, The other owners are Dominion condensate.
15 kilometres offshore, Exploration and Production Central Louisiana, US 22.4%, Merit Management Partners 19.4% and Ridgewood Offshore gas and Energy Company 14.54%.
condensate field We are the operator.
14 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 15 Information on Petroleum operations continued Name, location and type of asset Ownership and operation Title lease Facilities AMERICAS continued Mad Dog Green We hold a 23.9% working interest The venture holds a lease from the US as The field development consists of an Canyon 782 in Mad Dog.
long as oil and gas are produced in paying integrated truss spar equipped with facilities quantities.
for simultaneous production and drilling Gulf of Mexico, The other 76.1% is held by BP operations, permanently moored in 4,300 approximately 60.5% and Chevron 15.6%.
320 kilometres offshore BP is the operator.
of New Orleans, The facility has the capacity to process Louisiana, US 100 Mbbl d of oil and 60 MMcf d of gas.
Deep water oil and gas field Greater Angostura We hold a 45% working interest in The venture has entered into a production The Angostura development is an integrated the joint venture.
sharing contract with the state of Trinidad oil and gas development.
The infrastructure Approximately 38.5 and Tobago that entitles it to operate consists of a steel jacketed central kilometres east of The other 55% is held by Total Angostura until 2021. processing platform with three satellite Trinidad island, Trinidad 30% and Talisman Energy 25%.
wellhead protector platforms and flowlines.
and Tobago We are the operator.
A pipeline connects the processing platform Shallow water oil and to newly constructed storage facilities at gas field Guayaguayare, where an export pipeline has been installed to allow for offloading to tankers in Guayaguayare Bay.
The facility has the capacity to process 100 Mbbl d of oil.
EUROPE AFRICA MIDDLE EAST Liverpool Bay We hold a 46.1% working interest The joint venture holds three production The Liverpool Bay asset is an integrated in the joint venture.
The other licences issued by the Crown of the United development of six fields.
Douglas and Douglas 53.9% is held by Eni.
One of these licences expires in West oil fields, Oil from the Lennox and Douglas fields is July 2007.
However, this will be extended in Hamilton, Hamilton We are the operator.
treated at the Douglas complex and piped accordance with licence terms.
The other North and Hamilton 17 kilometres to an oil storage barge ready licences expire in 2009 and 2016.
East gas fields, and for export by tankers.
Lennox oil and gas Gas from the Hamilton, Hamilton North, fields in the Irish Sea, Hamilton East and Lennox fields is initially approximately 10 processed at the Douglas complex then kilometres off the piped by subsea pipeline to the Point of Ayr northwest coast of gas terminal for further processing.
England The facility has the capacity to produce 308 MMcf d of gas and 70 Mbbl d of oil and condensate.
Bruce Keith We hold a 16% interest in the The joint venture holds three production Production is via an integrated oil and gas Bruce field.
The other 84% is licences issued by the Crown of the United platform.
North Sea, owned by BP 37%, Total Kingdom, which expire in 2011, 2015 and approximately 380 The throughput of the Bruce facility has, 43.25% and Marubeni 3.75%.
2018. kilometres northeast since 2002, been increased to 920 MMcf d offshore of Aberdeen, BP is the operator of Bruce.
through fide-bottlenecking and revising Scotland operating envelopes.
We hold a 31.83% interest in the The Keith field is Keith field.
The other 68.17% is The Keith field was developed as a tie-back located adjacent owned by BP 34.84%, Total to the Bruce platform facilities.
to the Bruce field 25% and Marubeni 8.33%.
Offshore oil and We are the operator of Keith.
gas fields As part of our normal portfolio management process, we are marketing our interests in the Bruce field, the Keith field and associated acreage.
The asset was classified as Held for sale in the financial statements.
Ohanet We have an effective 45% The venture is party to a risk service Ohanet is a wet gas LPG and condensate working interest in the Ohanet contract with the title holder Sonatrach development consisting of four gas and Approximately 1,300 joint venture.
The other 55% is that expires in 2011 with an option for a condensate reservoirs and a gas processing kilometres southeast of held by Japan Ohanet Oil and Gas four-year renewal under certain conditions.
plant with the capacity to treat 20 MMcf d of Algiers and 100 30%, Woodside Energy Algeria wet gas and 61 Mbbl d of associated liquids kilometres west of 15% and Petrofac Resources LPG and condensate.
Algeria The project is operated by a Four wet gas fields Sonatrach BHP Billiton jointlystaffed organisation.
Information on the Company continued Information on Petroleum operations continued Name, location and type of asset Ownership and operation Title lease Facilities EUROPE AFRICA MIDDLE EAST continued ROD integrated We hold a 45% interest in the The venture is party to a production Comprises the development and production development joint venture contracted under the sharing contract with the title holder of six oil fields, the largest two of which, 401a 402a PSC, with ENI holding Sonatrach that expires in 2016 with an ROD and SFNE, extend into the neighbouring Berkine Basin, 900 the remaining 55%.
option for a five-year renewal under blocks 403a and 403d.
kilometres southeast of certain conditions.
Algiers, Algeria However, we have an effective The ROD fields are being produced through a 36% interest in ROD unitised new dedicated processing train, with the Six oil fields integrated development.
ENI owns capacity to process approximately 80 Mbbl d the remaining 64%.
is subject to a contractual determination to ensure that interest from participating association leases is accurately reflected.
Future redetermination may be possible under certain conditions.
A joint Sonatrach ENI entity is the operator.
Development projects Zamzama Phase 2 Australia Asia Phase 2 of the Zamzama plant facility upgrade project is currently under construction after being approved by our Board in Stybarrow November 2005.
Capacity is expected to increase by approximately In November 2005, our Board approved the development of the 50 per cent by 150 MMcf d of gas and 800 bbl d of condensate Stybarrow oil field in the Exmouth Sub-basin, off the northwest by the end of September 2007 at a cost of US$120 million coast of Western Australia.
At a water depth of approximately US$46 million our share.
We signed a gas sales and purchase 825 metres, Stybarrow will be Australias deepest oil field agreement in November 2005 with the Government of Pakistan development.
Project costs are approximately US$600 million and Sui Southern Gas Company Limited.
The agreement covers US$300 million our share and first production is expected during the supply of up to 150 MMcf d of gas over the life of the field.
The Stybarrow project consists of a subsea development and a floating production, storage and Americas offshore loading facility, which will be used to process, store and Atlantis South offload oil to export tankers.
The vessel will be disconnectable, We have a 44 per cent working interest in Atlantis South in the double-hulled and able to process approximately 80,000 barrels of deepwater fields in the Gulf of Mexico.
The facility will be a liquids a day.
We own a 50 per cent operated working interest in moored, semi-submersible platform with a capacity of 200 Mbbl d this permit with the remaining interest held by Woodside Energy.
We have approved a budget of North West Shelf Train 5 expansion US$1.1 billion our share for the development of these reserves.
However, the project is experiencing cost and schedule pressures In June 2005, our Board approved our 16.67 per cent share of as a result of heated market conditions and additional quality investment in a fifth LNG train expansion of the existing LNG assurance and regulatory certification processing in response to processing facilities located on the Burrup Peninsula, which will the last years Gulf of Mexico hurricane season.
Cost pressures are increase total LNG production capacity to 43,500 tonnes per day.
likely to result in a capital cost increase of more than 30 per cent The project is progressing on schedule with all major construction in excess of the currently approved budget.
BP owns the other contracts awarded.
Our share of development costs, based on 56 per cent and operates the project.
The project and cost the operators Woodside Energy estimate, is approximately schedule presently remains under review.
US$250 million with first production expected by late 2008.
The project cost and schedule are under review.
Neptune North West Shelf Angel development We have a 35 per cent interest and will operate the Neptune oil and gas project in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Other members In December 2005, our Board approved our share of development of the joint venture are Marathon Oil 30 per cent, Woodside costs for the North West Shelf ventures Angel gas and condensate 20 per cent and Repsol 15 per cent.
The project will construct field.
The development will include the installation of the ventures a stand-alone tension leg platform with a nameplate capacity of third major offshore production platform which will have a 50 Mbbl d and 50 MMcf d of gas.
Estimated development costs capacity to produce 800 MMcf d of gas from the North West Shelf are US$850 million US$300 million our share.
First oil is expected and associated infrastructure, including a new subsea 50 kilometre by the end of calendar year 2007. pipeline, which will be tied in to the first trunkline at the North Rankin platform.
Our share of development costs, based on the operators Woodside Energy estimate, is approximately US$200 million with development expected to be fully operational by the end of 2008.
16 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 17 Shenzi Americas Gulf of Mexico We have a 44 per cent interest and will operate the Shenzi oil Puma Green Canyon Western Atwater Foldbelt exploration and gas project in the deepwater fields of Gulf of Mexico.
The Puma-1 exploration well was drilled in January 2004.
The well Other members of the project are Repsol 28 per cent and Hess was drilled in 4,130 feet of water and encountered hydrocarbons Corporation 28 per cent.
The project will construct a stand-alone, in both the original hole and in two subsequent sidetrack bores.
tension leg platform with a design capacity of 100 Mbbl d and The first appraisal well was suspended short of the primary 50 MMcf d of gas.
Gross costs for the full field development objective by the operator BP in August 2006 and will be through to 2015 are estimated at approximately US$4.4 billion re-entered in mid fiscal year 2007.
Further appraisal is scheduled our share US$1.94 billion.
First oil is expected by mid 2009. for 2007.
Other developments Following an interim equity agreement, we hold a 29.805 per cent working interest in Puma.
The other 70.195 per cent is held by Americas BP 46.195 per cent, Chevron 21.75 per cent and Statoil We are seeking approval to construct and operate Cabrillo port, 2.25 per cent subject to future re-determination.
a floating storage and re-gasification unit FSRU, located in the Pacific Ocean approximately 22 kilometres offshore from Ventura Knotty Head County, California.
This deepwater port would be the receiving We currently own a 25 per cent working interest in an exploration terminal for shipments of LNG for the west coast markets of the well on the Knotty Head Prospect located in the Green Canyon US.
Natural gas production would average 800 MMcf d with area.
Partners in the well are Nexen 25 per cent owner and design capacity allowing maximum peak deliveries of 1,500 operator, Anadarko 25 per cent and Unocal a wholly-owned MMcf d. The Cabrillo port project is progressing through a subsidiary of Chevron 25 per cent.
Unocal spudded the permitting process involving US federal, state and local exploration well in March 2005.
The initial well was completed in government agencies.
mid December 2005 followed by a sidetrack operation, which was completed in early March 2006 to further evaluate the results of Exploration and appraisal the discovery well.
The well was drilled in 3,570 feet of water to a We are focused on finding significant discoveries through wildcat total depth of 34,189 feet and encountered hydrocarbons in both drilling that will add substantial resources.
We have exploration the original hole and the subsequent sidetrack.
Additional interests throughout the world, particularly the Gulf of Mexico and appraisal work will be required to further evaluate the economic Western Australia.
During the year, our gross expenditure on potential of the prospect.
Our major exploration interests are as follows: Cascade Chinook Walker Ridge exploration On 9 August 2006, Petrobras and Devon purchased our 50 per cent Australia Asia working interest in the Cascade blocks.
Petrobras and Total EandP Scarborough Pilbara LNG USA, Inc acquired our 40 per cent working interest in Chinook.
We have a 50 per cent non-operated interest in the Scarborough We received cash and a right to future contingent consideration, gas field in WA-1-R ExxonMobil holds the remaining 50 per cent as well as maintaining an overriding interest in these blocks.
and is the operator and hold 100 per cent interest in WA-346-P, which covers the northern extension of the mapped gas reservoir.
The project is still examining a number of concepts for field development.
Pyrenees WA-155-P WA-12-R exploration Pyrenees is a joint development plan encompassing the Ravensworth, Crosby and Stickle discoveries.
We own a 40 per cent operated working interest in the WA-155-P permit Ravensworth discovery in this area, with Apache Energy Ltd owning 31.5 per cent and Inpex owning 28.5 per cent.
We also own a 71.43 per cent operated working interest in the WA-12-R permit Crosby and Stickle discoveries in this area, with Apache Energy Ltd owning the remaining 28.57 per cent.
The project is currently in feasibility with development options still under evaluation.
Information on the Company continued Aluminium Customer Sector Group Through operations in Australia, Brazil, Mozambique, South Africa A 47.1 per cent interest and operator of the Mozal aluminium and Suriname, our Aluminium CSG mines bauxite, refines bauxite smelter in Mozambique.
into alumina and smelts alumina into aluminium metal.
The An 86 per cent interest and operator of the Worsley joint principal raw materials required for aluminium production are venture, consisting of the Boddington bauxite mine and the alumina, electricity, liquid pitch and petroleum coke.
Alumina Worsley alumina refinery, both located in Western Australia, production requires bauxite, caustic soda and electricity.
the alumina we use to produce aluminium metal is sourced from A 45 per cent interest and operator of the Suriname Mining joint our own operations.
We buy caustic soda, liquid pitch and venture operating the Lelydorp III, Kaaimangrassie, Klaverblad petroleum coke from a number of producers around the world.
and Coermotibo mines in Suriname, and a 45 per cent interest in the refining joint venture, comprising an alumina refinery and We sell part of our bauxite and alumina production to other port facilities at Paranam in Suriname.
refiners and smelters, and sell aluminium in the following forms: primary aluminium: foundry alloy: extrusion billet: rolling slab Interests in the Alumar consortium and Minerao Rio do and wire rod.
The Alumar consortium operates an integrated alumina refinery and aluminium smelter in So Lus, Brazil.
As a We are the worlds sixth largest producer of primary aluminium result of our joint venture partners investment Alcoa, Inc. in a with a total operating capacity of approximately 1.3 mtpa of new smelter line, our share in the Alumar smelter was reduced aluminium.
We also have a total operating capacity of from 46.3 per cent to 40 per cent during the year.
Our share in approximately 14 mtpa of bauxite and 4 mtpa of alumina.
the Alumar refinery remains at 36 per cent.
The Alumar We sell aluminium metal to customers around the world, generally consortium purchases bauxite under long-term contracts from at prices linked to the London Metal Exchange LME price.
MRN, an operation of three open-cut mines in northern Brazil of Our alumina and bauxite sales are governed by a mixture of which we own 14.8 per cent.
In August 2006, we completed the sale of our 45.5 per cent The Aluminium CSGs operations comprise the following: interest in the Valesul Aluminio SA Joint Venture to our joint The fully owned and operated Hillside and Bayside aluminium venture partner Companhia Vale do Rio Doce CVRD.
smelters, located at Richards Bay, South Africa.
Information on the Aluminium CSGs bauxite mining operations Detailed descriptions of our producing assets are listed in the tables below.
Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source ALUMINIUM Boddington bauxite We own 86% of the Worsley joint The Boddington mine opened in 1983 and The mine has a crushing plant with the mine venture.
The other 14% interest is was significantly extended in 2000. capacity of 13 dry mtpa of bauxite.
Power is owned by Sojitz Alumina 4% and supplied from the Worsley alumina refinery 123 kilometres Japan Alumina Associates 10%.
site via a joint venture-owned powerlines.
southeast of Perth at Boddington, Western Worsley Alumina Pty Ltd is the A description of the Worsley alumina refinery Australia, Australia manager of the joint venture on can be found below.
Worsley Open-cut mine Alumina Pty Ltd has the same The mine is accessible ownership structure as the by sealed public roads.
The ore is transported We hold a 2,716 square kilometre to Worsley alumina mining lease from the Western refinery via a 51 Australian Government.
In 2004, kilometre overland we renewed the lease for a conveyor.
Lelydorp III mine We own 45% of the Refining and The Lelydorp III mine started operations Lelydorp III mine has a nominal production Onverdacht Mining Joint Venture.
The mine will close down in capacity of 2 mtpa: there are no 55% interest is held by Suralco February 2007. beneficiation or processing facilities.
25 kilometres south of a subsidiary of Alcoa World Paramaribo and Electricity is sourced from Suralco and fuel Alumina and Chemicals AWAC, 15 kilometres west of sourced from an external provider.
a venture of Alcoa and Alumina the Paranam refinery, Limited.
Suriname We manage all mining operations.
Open-cut mine Suralco holds exploitation The mine is accessible licences, issued by the by joint venture-owned Government of Suriname, over the haulroads.
The ore is Lelydorp III deposit.
These licences hauled by truck over expire in 2032. a distance of 15 kilometres to the Paranam refinery.
18 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 19 Information on the Aluminium CSGs bauxite mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source ALUMINIUM continued Kaaimangrasie mine We own 45% of the refining and The development of the Kaaimangrasie Kaaimangrasie mine has a nominal Onverdacht mining joint venture.
The other mine started in November 2005. production capacity of approximately 2 mtpa 55% interest is held by Suralco.
Operations delivery of bauxite to the of bauxite: there are no processing facilities 38 kilometres southeast refinery will commence in July 2006. at the mine.
of Paramaribo and We manage all mining operations.
The mine is scheduled to be operated until 24 kilometres east of Electricity is sourced from Suralco and fuel Suralco holds the exploitation August 2010. the Paranam refinery, sourced from an external provider.
licences, issued by the Suriname Government of Suriname, over the Open-cut mine Kaaimangrasie deposit.
The mine is accessible by a joint ventureowned haulroad.
The ore is hauled by truck over a distance of 28 kilometres to the Paranam refinery.
Klaverblad mine We own 45% of the refining and The development of the Klaverblad mine Klaverblad mine has a nominal production Onverdacht mining joint venture.
The other started in July 2005.
Operations delivery of capacity of approximately 2 mtpa of bauxite: 55% interest is held by Suralco.
bauxite to the refinery will commence in there are no processing facilities at the mine.
The mine is scheduled to be of Paramaribo and We manage all mining operations.
Electricity is sourced from Suralco and fuel operated until August 2010.
11 kilometres east of sourced from an external provider.
Suralco holds the exploitation the Paranam refinery, licences, issued by the Suriname.
Government of Suriname, over the Open-cut mine Klaverblad deposit.
The ore is hauled by truck over a distance of 17 kilometres to the Paranam refinery.
Coermotibo We own 45% of the Coermotibo The Coermotibo mine started operations in Coermotibo mine has a nominal production joint venture.
Based on reserves the mine will be capacity of 1.7 mtpa: there are primary 150 kilometres east of interest is held by Suralco.
Remnants mining will crushing and barge loading facilities but no Paranam, Suriname continue after that time.
beneficiation or other processing facilities.
We manage all mining operations.
Surface strip mine Coermotibo generates its own electricity Suralco holds exploitation licences The mine is accessible from power generators that run on diesel over the bauxite issued by the by joint venture-owned fuel.
The ore is hauled to the Coermotibo crushing and loading facility and subsequently barged along the Commewijne river to the Paranam refinery.
The other Production started in 1979 and the last MRN beneficiation facilities consist of a 85.2% is owned by affiliates of expansion occurred in 2003. crushing unit and a washing unit and a Oriximina, State of Alcoa 18.2%, Alcan 12%, conveyer belt that transports the ore Par, Brazil Companhia Brasileira fide Alumnio between the two units.
The bauxite nominal Open-cut mines CBA 10%, CVRD 40% and production capacity is approximately The mine is accessible Norsk Hydro 5%.
by joint venture-owned MRN holds valid mining rights to MRN has its own power generation station haulroads.
A joint all its reserves until exhaustion of using fuel oil.
connects the 28 kilometres between the plant and the port.
Information on the Company continued Information on the Aluminium CSGs aluminium smelters and alumina refineries Operation and location Ownership, operation and title Plant type product Capacity and power source ALUMINIUM Hillside aluminium We own and operate the smelter.
The Hillside smelter uses the Aluminium The nominal production capacity of the smelter Pechiney AP35 technology to produce smelter is 0.704 mtpa of primary aluminium.
We hold freehold title over the standard aluminium ingots and aluminium Richards Bay, property, plant and equipment.
The plants power requirements are sourced T-Bars.
200 kilometres north of from the national power supplier Eskom The harbour silos, buildings and Durban, KwaZulu-Natal under a long-term contract with prices linked overhead conveyors are owned by province, South Africa to the LME price for aluminium.
Hillside, but Bayside is the principal lessee of the land for the export stockyard, liquid pitch terminal and the silo site, which are used by Hillside and Bayside.
Bayside aluminium We own and operate the smelter.
The Bayside smelter uses Alusuisse preThe nominal potline production capacity is smelter bake and Soderberg self-bake technologies 0.169 mtpa of primary aluminium.
We hold freehold title over the to produce primary aluminium.
Bayside Richards Bay, property, plant and equipment.
The plants power requirements are sourced uses its own aluminium and liquid 200 kilometres north of from the national power supplier Eskom The harbour silos, buildings and aluminium acquired from Hillside to also Durban, KwaZulu-Natal under a long-term contract with prices linked overhead conveyors are owned by produce a range of value added products, province, South Africa to the LME price for aluminium.
Hillside, but Bayside is the such as wheel rim alloy, rod and rolling principal lessee of the land for the ingot.
export stockyard, liquid pitch terminal and the silo site, which are used by Hillside and Bayside.
Mozal aluminium We hold a 47.1% interest in the The Mozal aluminium smelter uses the The nominal production capacity of the smelter Mozal joint venture and operate Aluminium Pechiney AP35 technology to smelter is 0.563 mtpa.
The other 52.9% is produce standard aluminium ingots.
17 kilometres from The plants power requirements are owned by Mitsubishi 25%, Maputo, Mozambique purchased from Motraco under an Industrial Development agreement that provides for a fixed tariff for Corporation of South Africa 24% the majority of electricity through to 2012 and the Government of and LME-linked pricing thereafter.
The joint venture has a 50-year right to use the land, renewable for another 50 years under a Government concession.
Worsley alumina We own 86% of this asset through The Worsley alumina refinery uses the The nominal production capacity is 3.5 mtpa.
refinery the Worsley joint venture.
The Bayer process to produce metallurgical Power and steam needed for the refinery are other 14% is owned by Sojitz grade alumina, which is used as feedstock Approximately provided by a joint venture-owned onsite Alumina 4% and Japan Alumina for aluminium smelting.
55 kilometres northeast coal power station and a non-joint ventureAssociates 10%.
of Bunbury, Western owned on-site gas fired power station.
Australia, Australia Worsley Alumina Pty Ltd is the manager of the joint venture on behalf of the participants.
Worsley Alumina Pty Ltd has the same ownership structure as the Worsley joint venture.
We hold a 2,480 hectare refinery lease from the Western Australian Government.
In 2004, we renewed the lease for a second 21-year term.
Paranam refinery We own 45% of the Paranam joint The Paranam alumina refinery utilises the Capacity is 2.2 mtpa.
The other 55% of the Bayer process to produce metallurgical generates its own power.
Paranam, Suriname joint venture is owned by Suralco.
grade alumina, which is used as feedstock for aluminium smelting.
Suralco manages the alumina refining.
The joint venture holds freehold title to the property, plant and equipment in a 4555% split between the two joint venture partners.
20 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 21 Information on the Aluminium CSGs aluminium smelters and alumina refineries continued Operation and location Ownership, operation and title Plant type product Capacity and power source ALUMINIUM continued Alumar The Alumar consortium is an The alumina refinery and aluminium The refinery complex was last expanded in unincorporated joint venture that smelter use Alcoa technology to produce June 2005, achieving annual capacity of So Lus, Maranho, holds the smelter, refinery, ingot aluminium ingots.
Brazil plant and support facilities.
The smelter has a nominal annual capacity We own 40% of the aluminium of approximately 0.450 mtpa of primary smelter.
The other 60% is owned aluminium.
by Alcoa Aluminio SA Alcoa.
The electricity requirements are supplied by We own 36% of the alumina Brazilian public power generation refinery.
The other 64% is owned concessionaire Electronorte, pursuant to a by Alcoa and its affiliate Abalco 20-year contract.
SA 35.1% and 18.9% respectively and Alcan 10%.
The consortium comprises an integrated port, an alumina refinery and an aluminium smelter together with areas for the production of anodes and aluminium ingots.
All the above are freehold interests of the joint venture participants.
Valesul Aluminio SA We owned 45.5% of the Valesul The Valesul aluminium smelter uses P19 The capacity of the smelter is 96,000 tonnes Aluminio SA joint venture.
The Reynolds technology to produce primary per annum.
It also has the capacity to remelt Rio fide Janeiro, Brazil other 54.5% is owned by aluminium.
another 21,000 tonnes per annum of Companhia Vale do Rio Doce aluminium scrap.
In August 2006, we The smelter draws approximately 42% of completed the sale of our share of its power consumption from four local the joint venture to CVRD.
hydroelectric plants that it partially owns.
Integrated smelter facility owned The remaining power is acquired under by Valesul and operation of a long-term contracts at market rates.
Development projects Worsley In 2004, we commenced the US$192 million our share US$165 million Worsley Alumina Development Capital Project DCP.
The DCP, which is now mechanically complete, will result in a 0.250 mtpa increase in alumina production 0.215 mtpa our share to 3.500 mtpa.
Ramping up to full production is currently in progress and we expect the final costs to be close to budget.
Suriname The joint venture is currently developing the Kaaimangrasie and Klaverbad deposits, which will replace the current Lelydorp and Coermotibo operations upon depletion.
The Kaaimangrassie mine began operation on 1 July 2006.
Alumar In December 2005, we approved a project to expand the refinery, which will increase annual alumina production capacity by 2.0 mtpa 0.700 mtpa our share to 3.5 mtpa 1.3 mtpa our share.
We have estimated that our share of this investment will total US$518 million.
Exploration In Suriname, BHP Billiton and Suralco jointly hold the exploration licence over the Bakhuis region in western Suriname.
The rights over this 2,780 square kilometre terrain were granted in November 2003 for a period of 25 months with options for extension.
The exploration phase has been finalised in November 2005, and BHP Billiton and Suralco are currently entering the negotiations with the Government of Suriname in order to obtain the exploitation rights for the Bakhuis area.
Information on the Company continued Base Metals Customer Sector Group Copper uranium Through operations in Chile, Australia and Peru our Base Metals CSG mines copper, silver, lead, zinc, molybdenum, uranium and Our Olympic Dam copper and uranium mine in South Australia is gold.
We have five primary products: our only asset producing uranium oxide.
The bulk of uranium copper concentrates production is sold under long-term, fixed price sales contracts with overseas electricity generating utilities.
Gold and silver produced copper cathodes are sold to the Perth Mint, Australia.
We acquired Olympic Dam as uranium oxide part of our acquisition of WMC in June 2005. lead concentrates zinc concentrates.
The Olympic Dam Ore reserves reported in the Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves section show an overall decrease proved plus Some of the ores we mine contain significant quantities of silver probable, and exclusive of production of 382 million dry tonnes at and gold, which remain in the base metal concentrates we sell.
0.9 per cent Cu, 0.3kg tonne U O, 0.2g tAu and 1.7g t Ag from 3 8 We receive payment credits for silver and gold recovered by our that reported in June 2005, albeit this year at a slightly higher customers in the smelting and refining process.
Since the acquisition of Olympic Dam in June 2005, we have produce gold and silver bullion at our Olympic Dam smelting and been reviewing the future operating and development plans.
The June 2006 reserve is based on a revised life-of-mine plan Our portfolio of large, low-cost mining operations includes the developed in the first half of calendar 2006 that includes only the Escondida mine in Chile, which is the worlds largest source of mining of underground stopes by current methods.
We are also developing a number of greenfield and include mining of lower grade areas by sub-level cave or other brownfield copper mining projects.
In addition to conventional alternative underground methods as included in last years Report.
mine development, we are also pursuing advanced bioleaching These lower grade areas in the northern mine, together with the technology, which we believe has the potential to achieve total southern mine area deposit, are the subject of extensive significant reductions in the cost of producing base metals.
On completion of these studies, which include both open-cut and underground sub-level and block caving Copper methods, the reserves will be restated.
Our majority-owned Escondida copper mine in northern Chile Currently, drilling is continuing at Olympic Dam to define the has separate processing streams producing high-quality copper concentrate and pure copper cathode.
Our other key copper extent of mineralisation.
assets are the Cerro Colorado copper mine in northern Chile, the Silver, lead and zinc Antamina copper and zinc operations in Peru and the Olympic Dam Cannington is the worlds largest single mine producer of both copper and uranium mine in Australia.
silver and lead and a significant producer of zinc.
In 2005-06, our share of total production was in excess of 1.2 mtpa of copper in cathode and contained in concentrate.
We provide The majority of Canningtons lead and zinc concentrate production for the 2006-07 fiscal year is committed under long-term contracts base metals concentrates to smelters and copper cathode to rod and brass mills and casting plants around the world.
We sell the with smelters in Australia, Korea, Japan and Europe at prices linked to the relevant LME prices.
The balance is allocated to the spot majority of our copper cathode production on annual contracts with a fixed premium and the majority of our copper concentrate market, primarily to Chinese buyers.
production to smelters under long-term contracts with treatment Following an assessment of ground conditions in May 2006, we and refining charges negotiated mainly on an annual or bi-annual accelerated the program decline and stope access rehabilitation to basis.
The price of contained copper is determined by the improve safety conditions.
This program, which we expect to be prevailing LME market price generally for cathodes in the month complete in December 2006, will reduce production by after shipment and for concentrate three months after shipment.
approximately 20 per cent throughout the period.
The cost The remainder is sold on a spot basis.
associated with this program is expected to be approximately US$25 million.
During June 2006, we sold our interest in the Tintaya copper mine in Peru.
The profit on disposal was US$296 million net of a taxation charge of US$143 million.
In June 2005, an earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale affected the region in which the Cerro Colorado mine is located.
Normal road accessibility for heavy trucks was suspended for two weeks and production was halted for two months, then gradually ramped up, returning to pre-earthquake levels in January 2006.
Copper zinc Our Antamina mine in Peru produces both copper and zinc concentrates.
We sell most of our copper and zinc concentrates to third party smelters.
The remainder of our production is mostly sold to merchants.
22 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 23 Information on Base Metals mining operations Detailed descriptions of our producing assets are listed in the tables below.
These tables should be read in conjunction with the production and reserves tables below.
Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source COPPER Escondida The mine is owned and operated Original construction of the operation was Escondida has two processing streams: by Minera Escondida Limitada.
The project has since two concentrator plants in which highAtacama Desert, undergone four phases of expansion at an quality copper concentrate is extracted from at an altitude of We own 57.5% of Minera additional cost of US$2,125 million 100% sulphide ore through a floatation extraction approximately Escondida.
The other 42.5% is terms plus US$451 million 100% terms process: and a solvent extraction plant in 3,100 metres and owned by affiliates of Rio Tinto for the construction of an oxide plant.
which leaching, solvent extraction and 170 kilometres 30%, the JECO Corporation electrowinning are used to produce copper southeast of 10% a consortium represented In October 2005, the Escondida Norte cathode.
Antofagasta, Chile by Mitsubishi Corporation 7%, expansion was completed at a cost of Mitsubishi Materials Corporation US$431 million 100% terms.
Nominal production capacity is 3.2 mtpa Two open-cut pits 1%, Nippon Mining and Metals of copper concentrate and 150,000 tonnes In June 2006, the Escondida Sulphide The mine is accessible 2% and the International per annum of copper cathode.
Leach copper project achieved first by public road.
The approved cost for the The new Sulphide Leach project will have the Copper cathode is Minera Escondida Limitada holds project was US$870 million 100% terms.
capacity to produce 180,000 tonnes per transported by a mining concession from the annum of copper cathode.
privately-owned rail line Chilean state that remains valid Separate transmission circuits provide power to the Antofagasta port indefinitely subject to payment of for the Escondida mine facilities.
These government operated annual fees.
transmission lines, which are connected to or Mejillones port Chiles northern power grid, are companyprivately operated.
owned and are sufficient to supply Copper concentrate is Escondida post Phase IV.
Electricity is transported by company purchased under contracts with local pipeline to its Coloso generating companies.
Tintaya Prior to its sale to Xstrata, we We held mining rights from the Peruvian Tintaya has two processing streams: a owned 99.95% of Tintaya.
state over the Tintaya mine and concentrator plant in which high-quality 270 kilometres from operations.
copper concentrate is extracted from Arequipa and Cusco sulphide ore through a floatation extraction at an altitude of Production commenced in 1984.
An acid process: and a solvent extraction plant in approximately 4,000 leach plant for oxide ore commenced which leaching, solvent extraction and metres, Southern commercial operation in June 2002 in order electrowinning are used to produce copper Andes, Peru to reduce operating costs.
Open-cut mine We sold Tintaya in June 2006, with an Capacity was 80,000 tonnes per annum of effective date of 1 June 2006. copper concentrate and 38,000 tonnes per annum of copper cathode.
Cerro Colorado We own and operate the mine.
Commercial production at Cerro Colorado Cerro Colorados facilities for this process commenced in June 1994. include two primary, secondary and tertiary Atacama Desert at an We hold a mining concession from crushers, leaching pads and solvent altitude of 2,600 the Chilean state that remains Expansions took place in 1995 and 1998. extraction and electrowinning plants.
metres, approximately valid indefinitely subject to Plant modifications were completed during Current capacity is 120,000 tonnes per 125 kilometres east of payment of annual fees.
calendar year 2004 at a cost of US$62 annum.
Iquique, Chile million to increase the mines crushing capacity, leach pad area and mine fleet.
Two suppliers, Edelnor SA and Compaa Open-cut mine Electrica Tarapac SA, supply power under The mine is accessible long-term contracts to the facilities through by public road.
the northern Chile power grid.
Cathode production is trucked 125 kilometres to port at Iquique, which is privately operated.
Information on the Company continued Information on Base Metals mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source COPPER URANIUM Olympic Dam We own and operate Olympic Production of copper began in 1988.
Underground mine extracts copper uranium Dam.
Between 1989 and 1995 the production ore and hauls the ore by an automated train 560 kilometres rate was increased, ultimately raising the network feeding underground crushing, northwest of Adelaide, The mining lease was granted by ore mining capacity to approximately storage and ore hoisting facilities.
South Australia, the Government of South Australia 3 mtpa.
Australia by an Act of Parliament for the Processing plant consists of two grinding period of 50 years from 1982, with During 2002, Olympic Dam completed an circuits in parallel and a multi-stage copper Underground mine a right of extension for a further optimisation project.
A new copper solvent sulphide flotation circuit.
The copper The mine is accessible period of 50 years.
extraction plant was commissioned in the concentrates treatment route consists of an by public road.
Copper first quarter of 2004. acid leach and filtration plant, a drying cathode and electrowon plant, an Outokumpu flash furnace with We acquired Olympic Dam as part of our copper is transported by two anode casting furnaces, an ISA electroacquisition of WMC in 2005. public road to public refinery and a refinery to recover gold and ports.
The flotation tailings treatment route consists of an acid leach and counter current decantation CCD circuit, copper and uranium solvent extraction plants, a copper electrowinning plant and a precipitation and calcining plant for uranium concentrates.
Process plant capacity is approximately 215,000 tonnes per annum of copper and 4,000 tonnes per annum of uranium oxide concentrates.
Power for the Olympic Dam operations is supplied via a 275kV powerline from Port Augusta, transmitted by ElectraNet in accordance with the National Electricity Code and the Electricity Act 1996 SA.
COPPER ZINC Antamina Antamina is owned by Compaa The Antamina project achieved commercial The principal project facilities include a Minera Antamina SA CMA, in production in October 2001. primary crusher, a nominal 70,000 tonnes 270 kilometres north of which we hold a 33.75% interest.
per day concentrator, copper and zinc Lima at an altitude of The remaining interests are held floatation circuits and a bismuth moly 4,300 metres, Peru by Xstrata 33.75%, Teck Cominco cleaning circuit, a 300 kilometre concentrate Open-cut mine 22.5% and Mitsubishi 10%.
pipeline with single-stage pumping and port The mine is facilities at Huarmey.
The pipeline design CMA is the operator of the mine.
accessible by a throughput is 1.8 dry mtpa.
CMA holds mining rights from the company-maintained Power to the mine site is being supplied Peruvian state over the Antamina 115 kilometre access under long-term contracts with individual mine and operations.
power producers through a 58 kilometre, can be held indefinitely, A 300 kilometre pipeline 220kV transmission line, which is connected contingent upon the annual transports the copper to Perus national energy grid.
payment of licence fees and the and zinc concentrates supply of information on to the port of Huarmey.
SILVER, LEAD AND ZINC Cannington We own and operate Cannington.
The deposit was discovered in 1990.
The beneficiation plant consists of a primary Concentrate production commenced in grinding circuit AG mill, secondary grinding 300 kilometres The Cannington deposit is October 1997. circuit tower mill, pre-flotation circuit, fine southeast of Mt Isa, contained within mining leases lead flotation circuit, coarse lead flotation Queensland, Australia granted to us by the state of In February 2003, the Cannington Growth circuit, zinc flotation circuit, concentrate and Queensland in 1994 and which Project commenced to improve mill Underground mine tailings thickening, lead and zinc concentrate expire in 2029. throughput and metal recovery.
The The mine is accessible leaching circuits, lead and zinc concentrate project was completed during 2005. by public road access filtration circuit and a paste plant.
and a company-owned Nominal capacity is 3.1 mtpa.
A power station, consisting of a combination Product is transported of gas-fired and diesel-fired engines, located 187 kilometres by road at Cannington is operated under contract to to Yurbi, a companysupply power solely to Cannington.
owned loading facility, where it is loaded on public rail and transported to a public port.
24 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 25 Development projects Escondida Norte and Escondida Sulphide Leach In October 2005, we commenced mining the Escondida Norte orebody, which was developed at a cost of US$431 million 100 per cent terms.
In June 2006, first cathode was produced from a newly constructed bioleaching facility to process previously stockpiled low-grade sulphide ore.
The project costs are being finalised and are expected to be close to the budget of US$870 million 100 per cent terms excluding foreign exchange impacts of the stronger Chilean peso.
Spence In October 2004, we approved the development of the Spence open-cut copper mine.
The project is currently within the budget of US$990 million excluding foreign exchange impacts of the stronger Chilean peso.
The project is located 150 kilometres northeast of the port city of Antofagasta and 50 kilometres southeast of the mining city of Calama in the Atacama Desert of northern Chile.
The project will produce copper cathode by acid and bacterial leaching followed by sulphide solvent extraction and electrowinning.
The project will have a nominal capacity of 200,000 tonnes of copper cathode and an estimated mine life of 19 years.
Electrical power will be supplied via a 70 kilometre high-voltage transmission line connected to Chiles northern power grid.
Spence will own this transmission line and purchase electricity under contracts from a local generating company.
First cathode production is scheduled for the second quarter of the 2006-07 financial year.
Olympic Dam Due to the size of the Olympic Dam orebody, there is potential to further increase the size of the operation over and above the current capacity.
A pre-feasibility study is currently being undertaken to examine capacity expansion options.
The scope of the pre-feasibility studies will address operational capacity, mining methods, processing and smelter options and the infrastructure, health, safety and environmental practices required to support the expansion options.
A substantial expansion of Olympic Dam will require completion of feasibility studies and subsequent Board approvals as well as various regulatory and governmental approvals covering a range of operational matters.
Information on the Company continued Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group Our Carbon Steel Materials CSG is a leading supplier of core raw operates one other Bowen Basin mine, and is in the development materials and services to the global steel industry producing and phase for another for BHP Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd, in which we have marketing a full range of steelmaking raw materials: iron ore, an 80 per cent interest.
The majority of the coal production is coking coal and manganese ore and alloys.
We have mines in high-quality metallurgical coal used for steelmaking.
Australia, Brazil and South Africa.
The CQCA joint venture owns and operates the Hay Point coal terminal in Mackay, Queensland, through which most of the Iron ore ventures coal is shipped.
Hay Point handles around 35 mtpa and Our principal iron ore operations are based in the Pilbara region can accommodate bulk carriers of up to 230,000 deadweight of northwestern Australia.
Through a series of 100 per cent BHP tonnes.
Billiton-owned and majority-owned joint ventures we mine iron ore We also own and operate four underground coal mines in the from a number of open-cut mines and transport it by our own rail Illawarra region of New South Wales Australia.
Coal from these network to our port facilities at Port Hedland.
We also hold a mines is either sold to BlueScope Steels Port Kembla Steelworks 50 per cent interest in an iron ore mine in Brazil.
We sell lump ore or shipped to domestic and international customers.
and fines from Australia and Samarco sells pellets from Brazil to steel producers, which are principally exported to China, other Manganese countries in Asia, Africa and the Middle East, Europe and the We hold our South African manganese interests via a 60 per cent United States, generally under long-term contracts with prices set holding in Samancor Manganese.
In South Africa, Samancor annually.
Iron ore mined from Yandi, Jimblebar and Mt Goldsworthy produces manganese ore from two mines at Hotazel in the Area C deposits is sold under marketing arrangements that are Northern Cape Province, produces manganese alloy at a plant detailed in the footnotes to the production and reserves tables.
Metalloys in Gauteng Province and has a 51 per cent interest in On 24 August 2005, we announced the permanent closure of the Manganese Metal Company, a producer of electrolytic manganese hot briquetted iron production facilities at our wholly-owned metal.
During 2005-06, Samancor Manganese sold its 100 per cent Boodarie Iron plant in Western Australia.
We intend to retain the interest in DMS Powders, a business producing atomised and Boodarie Iron beneficiation plant to complete feasibility studies milled ferrosilicon, to a Black Economic Empowerment BEE into longer-term options for our lower-grade iron ore. consortium.
In July 2006, the Company purchased Mitsuis 50 per cent shareholding in Advalloy Pty Ltd, the refined alloy producer Metallurgical coal in Gauteng Province, making Samancor Manganese the 100 per We mine metallurgical coal in Australia and sell it to steel cent owner of Advalloy.
In Australia the business produces ore at producers in Japan, Europe, Korea, India, Taiwan, Brazil, China and Groote Eylandt in the Northern Territory GEMCO and manganese Australia generally under annual contracts.
alloys in northern Tasmania TEMCO.
We have a 60 per cent Together with Mitsubishi Development Pty Ltd, we own six openeffective ownership of both GEMCO and TEMCO.
We are the managers of all the above operations.
cut coal mines, two underground coal mines and a port in the Bowen Basin, Queensland, Australia.
These coal mining operations We sell manganese ore to alloyers principally in Asia, Europe, are managed through BM Alliance Coal Operations Pty Ltd BMA, Australia and South Africa.
Approximately two-thirds of these sales a jointly owned entity, and the coal produced is marketed through are priced annually.
The rest are priced quarterly or occasionally on another jointly owned entity, BM Alliance Coal Marketing Pty Ltd. a spot basis.
We sell manganese metal and alloys principally to These mines are separated into two joint venture structures in steelmakers under long-term contracts that usually provide for which we have a 50 per cent interest, namely the Central quarterly adjustment of prices, either by negotiation or reference Queensland Coal Associates CQCA joint venture and the Gregory to published market prices.
Mitsubishi Development Pty Ltd has the remaining 50 per cent interest in these two joint ventures.
In addition, BMA Information on Carbon Steel Materials mining operations A detailed description of our producing assets is listed in the following tables.
Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source IRON ORE Mt Newman joint We hold an 85% interest in the Mt Production began at the Mt Whaleback At Mt Whaleback, primary and secondary venture Newman joint venture.
The other orebody in 1969. crushing plants capacity of 35 mtpa : a 15% is held by Mitsui ITOCHU Iron heavy media beneficiation plant capacity of Pilbara region, Western Production continues to be sourced from 10% and ITOCHU Minerals and 8 mtpa and a train-loading facility.
Australia, Australia the major Mt Whaleback orebody, Energy of Australia 5%.
complemented by production from At orebody 25, an additional primary and Open-cut mine We are the operators.
orebodies 18, 23, 25, 29 and 30. secondary crushing plant capacity of The mine is accessible 8 mtpa.
Mining lease under the Iron Ore by public road and Mt Newman Agreement Act A crusher and train-loading facility at a cost Company-owned rail to 1964, that expires in 2009 with of US$85 million have been constructed at the joint ventures the right to successive renewals orebody 18.
Nelson Point shipping of 21 years.
Power comes from Alinta Dewaps Newman gas-fired power station via Company-owned powerlines.
26 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 27 Information on Carbon Steel Materials mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source IRON ORE continued Yandi joint venture We hold an 85% interest in the We began development of the orebody in Two processing plants and a primary crusher Yandi joint venture.
The other 15% 1991 with an initial capacity of 10 mtpa.
and overland conveyor are used to crush and Pilbara region, Western is held by Mitsui Iron Ore The first shipment occurred in 1992. screen ore and deliver it to one of two trainAustralia, Australia Corporation 7% and ITOCHU loading facilities.
Capacity was progressively expanded Open-cut mine Minerals and Energy of Australia between 1994 and 2003 and is currently Power comes from the Alinta Dewap-owned The mine is accessible 8%.
Newman power station via Company-owned by public road and An independent contract mining powerlines.
Company-owned rail to company is the operator of the the Nelson Point mine.
shipping facility at Port Mining lease under the Iron Ore Hedland.
Marillana Creek Agreement Act 1991 expires in 2012 with renewal right to a further 42 years.
Production at Jimblebar began in March Primary and secondary crushing plant 1989. capacity of 8 mtpa.
Pilbara region, Western An independent contract mining Australia, Australia company is the operator of the The ore currently being produced is Power comes from the Alinta-owned mine.
blended with ore produced from Mt Newman power station via Company-owned Open-cut mine Whaleback and satellite orebodies 18, 23, powerlines.
Mining lease under the Iron Ore The mine is accessible 25, 29 and 30 to create the Mt Newman McCameys Monster Agreement by public road and blend.
Authorisation Act 1972 expires in Company-owned rail to 2009 with the rights to successive Port Hedland via a renewals of 21years.
30 kilometre spur line linking with the main Newman to Port Hedland railway.
Mt Goldsworthy joint We hold an 85% interest in the Operations originally commenced at the Two primary crushers exist, one at Yarrie and venture Mt Goldsworthy Joint Venture.
Mt Goldsworthy project in 1966 and the the other at Nimingarra, with a combined The other 15% is held by Mitsui Shay Gap mine in 1973.
The original mine capacity of 8 mtpa.
Pilbara region, Western Iron Ore Corporation 7% and closed in 1982 and the associated Shay Australia, Australia An ore processing plant is located at Area C ITOCHU Minerals and Energy of Gap mine closed in 1993.
Since then, capacity of 23 mtpa but is currently being Open-cut mine Australia 8%.
mining has continued from the adjacent upgraded to 42 mtpa, which is expected to The mine is accessible Nimingarra and Yarrie areas.
An independent contract mining be completed in 2007.
A primary crusher and by public road and company is the operator of the We opened Area C mine in 2003. overland conveyor are currently under Company-owned rail to mine.
At the beginning of September 2006, we the joint ventures Four mineral leases under the Iron suspended C Berth shiploading operations Power for Yarrie and Nimingarra is sourced Finucane Island Ore Mt Goldsworthy Agreement at Finucane Island as part of Rapid Growth via overhead powerlines from the Port shipping facilities and Act 1964 and the Iron Ore Project 3 RGP3 expansion works.
The Hedland gas-fired powered station operated the Nelson Point Goldsworthy Nimingarra C Berth shiploading operations will by Alinta Dewap.
shipping facilities, both Agreement Act 1972, which have recommence at the completion of RGP3 located at Port Area C sources its power from the Newman expiry dates between 2007 and as described below.
power station also operated by Alinta 2014 with rights to successive Dewap.
Our railway spur links renewals of 21 years.
Area C mine to the A number of smaller mining leases Newman main line.
granted under the Mining Act 1978 in 2005.
Samarco We own 50% of Samarco.
The Production began at the Germano mine in There is a 396 kilometre iron ore slurry other 50% is owned by 1977 and at the Alegria complex in 1992. pipeline integrating the mining complex to Southeast Brazil Companhia Vale do Rio Doce The Alegria complex has now replaced the pellet plants.
Samarco is operated as depleted Germano mine.
The last An iron ore beneficiation plant has a The mine is accessible an independent business with its expansion occurred in 1997 when a second capacity of 16.5 mtpa.
In 2005 an Two pellet plants have a total capacity of Conveyor belts optimisation project increased pellet feed The Brazilian Government has 14.0 mtpa.
transport iron ore to the and pellet production.
granted mining concessions to beneficiation plant and Samarco operates one hydroelectric power Samarco as long as it mines the a 396 kilometre slurry plant and has a 49% stake in another.
Alegria Complex according to an pipeline transports These plants furnish approximately 35% of agreed plan.
pellet feed to the pellet electricity requirements.
Samarco has signed an agreement expiring Iron pellets are in 2013 to purchase remaining power needs exported via private from a local concessionaire that operates port facilities.
Information on the Company continued Information on Carbon Steel Materials mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source METALLURGICAL COAL Central Queensland We own 50% of the CQCA joint Goonyella mine, which commenced in 1971, All coal is beneficiated at on-site processing Coal Associates joint venture.
Mitsubishi owns the merged with the adjoining Riverside mine facilities, which have a combined capacity in venture other 50%.
in 1989 and is operated as the Goonyella excess of 51.5 mtpa.
Reserves at the Riverside Bowen Basin, BMA Coal Operations, a joint Power is sourced from the state of mine were depleted in 2005.
Queensland, Australia venture entity, is the operator of Queenslands electricity grid.
Peak Downs commenced production in Goonyella Riverside, 1972.
Saraji mine commenced production in Peak Downs, Saraji, Leases for the CQCA mines have 1974.
Norwich Park commenced production Norwich Park and expiry dates between 2008 and in 1979.
Blackwater are 2024 and are renewable for such open-cut mines.
further periods as the Queensland Blackwater mine commenced production in Broadmeadow is a Government allows.
South Blackwater and Blackwater longwall underground mines were integrated in mid 2001. mine.
Broadmeadow, a new underground mine The mines are developed on the Goonyella mining lease, accessible by public commenced longwall operations in August road.
All coal is 2005. transported on Government-owned railways to the port of Hay Point near Mackay incorporating CQCAs Hay Point coal terminal and the Dalrymple Bay coal terminal and the port of Gladstone.
Gregory joint venture We own 50% of the Gregory joint The Gregory mine became operational All coal is beneficiated at on-site processing venture.
Mitsubishi Development in 1979. facilities, which have a combined capacity in Bowen Basin, Pty Ltd owns the other 50%.
Queensland, Australia Crinum mine commenced longwall BMA Coal Operations, a joint production in 1997.
Power is sourced from the state of Gregory is an open-cut venture entity, is the operator of Queenslands electricity grid.
Crinum is a longwall Leases have expiry dates between underground mine.
2006 and 2019 and are renewable The mines are for such further periods as the accessible by public Queensland Government allows.
All coal is transported on Government-owned railways to the port of Hay Point near Mackay incorporating CQCAs Hay Point coal terminal and the Dalrymple Bay coal terminal and the port of Gladstone.
BHP Mitsui Coal joint We own 80% of the BHP Mitsui The joint venture commissioned Riverside, South Walker Creek coal is beneficiated at venture Coal joint venture.
Mitsui and Co an open-cut mine, in 1983.
Reserves were on-site processing facilities with a capacity owns the other 20%.
depleted in 2005. to produce 4.0 mtpa of coal.
Bowen Basin, Queensland, Australia BMA manages the mines, which South Walker Creek became operational in Poitrel mine has entered into a joint venture are operated through independent 1998 producing pulverised coal injection agreement with the adjacent Millennium South Walker Creek and contractors.
PCI product and minor quantities of Coal mine to share coal processing and rail Poitrel are open-cut by-product energy coal.
Leases expire in 2020 and are renewable for such further periods Construction for the new Poitrel mine Power is sourced from the state of The mines are as the Queensland Government commenced in early 2006.
removal operations started in July 2006, road.
All coal is and the first coal mining is scheduled to transported on The joint venture holds additional commence in September 2006.
The new Government-owned undeveloped leases in the Bowen mine will have a production capacity of railways to the port of Basin.
3.0 mtpa of coking and PCI coals.
Hay Point near Mackay incorporating CQCAs Hay Point coal terminal and the Dalrymple Bay coal terminal.
28 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 29 Information on Carbon Steel Materials mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source METALLURGICAL COAL continued Illawarra Coal We are owner and operator of the Appin commenced in 1962 with longwall Coal is beneficiated at two processing Illawarra Coal mines.
The adjoining facilities with a capacity to produce Illawarra, New South Douglas mine is being developed as a 8.8 mtpa.
Wales, Australia Leases have expiry dates between replacement for the Appin mine.
2010 and 2026 with renewal rights Power is sourced from the state of Underground mines under the NSW Mining Act 1992 West Cliff was commissioned in 1976.
New South Wales electricity grid.
All the mines are for periods of 21 years.
Reserves were accessible by public nearly depleted in 2005.
All coal is blocks are being developed by contract transported by road or mining.
on Government-owned railways to our major Dendrobium Mine opened in 2004-05 at a customer BlueScope total cost of US$200 million.
A modern Steels Port Kembla longwall mine, it has now replaced the steelworks, or to Port Elouera mine.
MANGANESE Hotazel Manganese Samancors wholly-owned Mamatwan was commissioned in 1964.
Mamatwans capacity is currently 2.6 mtpa Mines subsidiary Hotazel Manganese of ore and sinter.
The beneficiation plant Wessels was commissioned in 1973.
Mines is the operator of consists of primary, secondary and tertiary Kalahari Basin, South Mamatwan and Wessels.
The crushing with associated screening plants.
remaining 40% is owned by Anglo There is a dense medium separator and a Mamatwan is an American.
sinter plant with a capacity of 1.0 mtpa of open-cut mine.
Samancor Manganese must sell Wessels is an 15% of its shareholding to a BEE Wessels has two loaders and four haulers underground mine.
entity by 2009 to comply with the with an annual capacity of approximately The mines are South African Governments 1.0 mtpa of ore.
The processing is a simple accessible by rail Mining Charter and scorecard.
crushing and screening circuit consisting of and public road.
Negotiations are proceeding with primary and secondary crushing circuits with Most bulk reagents possible BEE partners.
are transported by The power source is the national utility Government-owned company Eskom.
60% of the ore produced is beneficiated locally with the balance exported via Port Elizabeth and Durban.
Groote Eylandt Mining We own 60% of GEMCO, which The mine was first commissioned in 1965.
The beneficiation process consists of Company Pty Ltd owns and operates the mine.
The crushing, screening and dense media GEMCO remaining 40% is owned by Anglo separation with lump and fines products American.
The existing capacity is Groote Eylandt, 3.1 mtpa.
Northern Territory, All leases situated on Aboriginal Australia land held under the Aboriginal GEMCO owns and operates its own on-site Land Rights Northern Territory diesel power generation facility.
Leases are subject to Ore is transported from renegotiations in 2006 and 2010. the concentrator by road train directly to our shipping facilities at the port at Milner Bay.
Information on the Company continued Information on Carbon Steel Materials smelters, refineries and processing plants Operation and location Ownership, operation and title Plant type product Capacity and power source MANGANESE Advalloy We own 60% of Samancor Manganese alloy plant uses an electric arc Advalloy has a capacity of 82,000 tonnes per Manganese, which now owns furnace process producing refined annum of medium-carbon ferromanganese Meyerton, South Africa 100% of Advalloy.
purchased the 50% of Advalloy The power source is the national utility that it did not previously own in company Eskom.
Samancor Manganese holds freehold title over the property, plant and equipment.
Manganese Metal We own 60% of Samancor A manganese production plant at Nelspruit Nelspruit has a capacity of 27,000 tonnes per Company Manganese, which in turn owns processing and electrorefining manganese annum of electrolytic manganese metal.
51% of Manganese Metal ore into electrolytic manganese metal via Nelspruit and The power source is the national utility Company.
Delta Plc indirectly a hydrometallurgical extraction process.
For economic reasons, manganese metal South Africa production was suspended at the Manganese Metal Company holds Krugersdorp plant on 22 February 2006. freehold title over the property, plant and equipment.
Metalloys We own 60% of Samancor Manganese alloy plant uses three electric 370,000 tonnes of high-carbon Manganese, which in turn owns arc furnaces to produce manganese alloys ferromanganese including hot metal and Meyerton, South Africa 100% of Metalloys.
such as high and medium-carbon 120,000 tonnes of silicomanganese in ferromanganese and silicomanganese.
various fractions mix per annum.
Samancor Manganese holds freehold title over the property, The power source is the national utility plant and equipment.
company Eskom with 15 mws of power generation from waste gases.
Tasmanian Electro We own 60% of TEMCO.
Anglo Four furnaces and a sinter plant produce Nominal capacity based on the 2006 product Manganese Company American owns the remaining ferroalloys including high-carbon mix is 128,500 tonnes of high-carbon TEMCO 40%.
Samancor Manganese ferromanganese, silicomanganese and ferromanganese, 125,700 tonnes of manages the operations.
silicomanganese and 336,000 tonnes of Bell Bay, Tasmania, sinter per annum.
Australia TEMCO holds freehold title over the property, plant and TEMCO sources its electrical power from equipment.
Aurora Energy, the state-owned power distribution and retailing company.
Power in Tasmania is principally generated from hydro stations but supplemented with a 240 mw gas generation station.
TEMCO also selfgenerates 13 mw for internal use from an on-site Energy Recovery Unit.
In addition, Basslink, a 600 mw interconnector between Tasmania and Victoria came online in May 2006 and has provided additional capacity and security of supply in periods of drought.
Development projects Samarco Iron ore In October 2005, our Board approved construction of a third pellet plant at Ponta Ubu, together with a mine expansion, a new Western Australia Iron Ore concentrator at Germano, port enhancements and a second slurry We have undertaken a series of development projects referred to pipeline.
We estimate that the project will increase iron ore pellet as Rapid Growth Projects RGP.
In February 2004, we completed capacity by 7.6 million tonnes at a cost of US$1.18 billion US$590 an expansion of our Port Hedland facilities, which increased million our share.
Production is scheduled to commence during capacity to 100 mtpa.
In October 2004, our Board approved Rapid the first half of 2008.
Growth Project 2 RGP2, which comprises mine, rail and port capacity increases through the development of orebody 18, Metallurgical Coal purchase of additional rolling stock and a new car dumper at our Maruwai Lampunut Finucane Island facility at Port Hedland.
RGP2 was to have We are conducting a feasibility study into the development of a increased system capacity to 118 mtpa by the end of the second 5 mtpa coking coal operation under the Maruwai Coal Contract of quarter of the 2006-07 financial year.
However, the closure of Work agreement with the Indonesian Government.
The study is Boodarie Iron in 2005 has reduced system capacity by 1 mtpa.
expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2006-07.
There will also be an 8 mtpa reduction in capacity due to the suspension in September 2006 of the Goldsworthy shiploading operations at Finucane Island, related to RGP3.
RGP3 was approved by our Board in October 2005.
RGP3 comprises mine rail and port expansions.
Installed capacity at the Area C mine will increase by 20 mtpa by the second quarter of financial year 2007-08.
30 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 31 Diamonds and Specialty Products Customer Sector Group The Diamonds and Specialty Products CSG encompasses our RBM is a leading producer of titania slag, high-purity pig iron, diamonds and titanium minerals businesses and included the rutile and zircon from mineral sands.
The zircon, rutile and pig iron fertilisers business until its sale in August 2006.
Our principal are sold as end products both internationally and locally.
95 per operations are located in Canada, South Africa, Mozambique cent of the total capacity is exported, yielding a world market and Australia.
share of approximately 15 per cent for titanium feedstocks and 20 per cent for zircon.
Approximately 90 per cent of the titanium During the 2005-06 fiscal year, our minerals exploration and dioxide slag produced by RBM is suitable for the chloride process technology functions were removed from the Diamonds and of titanium dioxide pigment manufacture and is sold Specialty Products CSG.
internationally under a variety of short, medium and long-term contracts.
Corridor Sands and TiGen are currently in their preDiamonds feasibility phases.
The cornerstone of our diamonds business is the EKATI Diamond Mine.
EKATI has produced an average of approximately four Fertilisers million carats of rough diamonds annually over the last two years.
Our fertiliser business was built around Southern Cross Fertilisers Due to changes in available ore sources, future rough diamond SCF which we acquired as part of the WMC acquisition.
SCF is a production may vary from historical levels.
Annual sales from EKATI major supplier of phosphate-based fertilisers to the Australian including minority shares represent around 3 per cent of current market.
SCF has an integrated network of plants in Mt Isa and world rough diamond supply by weight and 6 per cent by value.
Phosphate Hill and a phosphate rock orebody at Phosphate Hill.
We sell most of our rough diamonds to international diamond SCF produces di-ammonium phosphate DAP and monobuyers through our Antwerp sales office.
We sell up to 10 per cent ammonium phosphate MAP.
of our rough diamonds to two Canadian manufacturers, and we On 1 August 2006, we completed the sale of SCF to Incitec Pivot sell both polished and rough diamonds directly to jewellers.
We sell Limited for US$98 million.
polished diamonds, manufactured through contract polishing arrangements, through our CanadaMark and AURIAS brands.
In December 2005, we sold our 33.3 per cent interest in the Hi-Fert distribution and marketing business to the ELF Australia joint Titanium minerals venture for US$15 million.
Our interest in titanium minerals consists of our 50 per cent effective interest in Richards Bay Minerals RBM in South Africa, and the Corridor Sands and TiGen minerals sands projects in Mozambique.
Information on Diamonds and Specialty Products mining operations A detailed description of our producing assets is listed in the following tables.
Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source DIAMONDS EKATI Diamond Mine We own an 80% interest in the Construction began in 1997 and production Major facilities at the mine include camp Core Zone joint venture which from the first open-cut was initiated in accommodation, a truck maintenance shop 310 kilometres includes the existing operations.
The mine and processing plant began with office complex, an equipment-warming northeast of The remaining 20% interest is held operation in mid 1998. shed and the process plant.
The processing Yellowknife, Northwest by two individuals.
plant consists of primary, secondary and Territories, Canada In October 2001, we acquired Dia Met tertiary crushers, washers scrubber and We also own a 58.8% interest in Minerals Ltd, bringing our interest in the Beartooth and Fox are grinder and heavy media separator.
The the Buffer Zone joint venture Core Zone and Buffer Zone joint ventures open-cut mines and diamond recovery process makes use of made up predominantly of up to 80% and 58.8% respectively.
Panda is an wet high intensity magnetics, wet and dry exploration targets.
Current active mines include two open-cut particle X-ray sorters, drier, and grease table.
We are the operators of the Beartooth and Fox and one underground The mines are Nameplate capacity is 9,000 tonnes of ore mines.
mine Panda, with a second underground accessible year round per day.
Tenure is secured through All the electric power is generated by our ownership of mining leases Road access is available Company-owned and operated diesel power granted by the Government of for approximately 10 station.
In addition, there is storage for Canada.
Mining leases have been weeks per year via an approximately 90 million litres of diesel fuel granted for reserves until 2017. ice road.
Information on the Company continued Information on Diamonds and Specialty Products mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source TITANIUM MINERALS Richards Bay Minerals RBM comprises two legal entities: Richards Bay Minerals was formed in 1976 Mining is conducted largely by sand dredge Tisand Pty Ltd and Richards to mine and beneficiate the sands in the mining with minor supplementary dry Five beach sand dredge Bay Iron and Titanium Pty Ltd. coastal dunes.
Gravity separation via spiral is mines 10 to Our share is 51% and 49.45% then utilised to produce a heavy mineral 50 kilometres north of The mining operations have expanded to respectively.
This concentrate is then trucked Richards Bay, KwaZulufive with the last mine added in 2000. and 50.55% are held by Rio Tinto.
to a central processing plant where Natal, South Africa The overall net income is shared magnetic, electrostatic and gravity The mine is accessible equally.
techniques are used to produce the finished via public rail, road and products being rutile and zircon and the RBM management independently port.
operate the joint venture on The rail between the behalf of the shareholders.
The smelter processes the ilmenite to mine site, harbour and produce titanium dioxide slag, with a RBM holds long-term renewable shipping facilities are titanium dioxide of approximately 85% leases from the state of South owned by Spoornet and high-purity iron.
and Portnet both The nominal titanium slag capacity is government business These leases are subject to the 1.06 mtpa.
enterprises supplying South African Mining Charter and services on behalf of must be lodged for a conversion The power for the operation is purchased the state.
The roads to a New Order Mining Right by from the South African grid.
accessing the smelter no later than 30 April 2009 see are government-owned.
FERTILISERS Southern Cross We owned and operated Mining for phosphate rock was undertaken Southern Cross Fertilisers operates a fully Fertilisers Southern Cross Fertilisers during at the site in the 1970s and between 1981 integrated ammonium phosphate production the 2005-06 fiscal year.
and 1983, but ceased for economic facility.
approximately On 1 August 2006, we completed 150 kilometres the sale of SCF to Incitec Pivot Mining restarted in 1999 with the southeast of Mt Isa, Limited.
construction of the ammonium phosphate Queensland, Australia processing plant at Phosphate Hill.
Open-cut mine The previous operator was WMC.
Development projects TiGen Koala underground We own a 100 per cent interest in TiGen, another significant ilmenite orebody, located at Moebase, in northern Mozambique.
In June 2006, we approved the development of the third A pre-feasibility study has been completed and market studies underground mine at the EKATI Diamond Mine in Canada.
In continue to determine when the project should move into addition to the mine development, the investment provides for feasibility.
mine ventilation systems, an underground conveyor connecting to the existing Panda underground conveyor and minor surface infrastructure and mobile equipment.
The project will deliver a total of 7.1 million dry tonnes of ore to the process plant and recover 6.5 million carats of high-quality Koala diamonds.
Total project life is expected to be 11 years.
Total development costs are estimated at US$250 million our share US$200 million.
First production is expected in the third quarter of calendar 2007.
Corridor Sands We own 90 per cent of Corridor Sands Ltd, the joint venture company that holds the Corridor Sands mineral tenement.
The other 10 per cent equity is owned by the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa Ltd.
Currently, the project is in pre-feasibility stage to study the options to exploit undeveloped ilmenite deposits near the town of Chibuto, 190 kilometres north of Maputo and 50 kilometres inland from Xa Xai in the Gaza Province, Southern Mozambique.
A world-scale integrated open-cut mining, concentration and smelting operation is envisaged to produce titania slag and high-purity iron, as well as the minerals rutile and zircon.
We have a Prospecting and Research Licence Mineral Tenement on land that incorporates the Corridor Sands mineral sands project, which we can convert to a mining title upon committing to a development plan.
32 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 33 Energy Coal Customer Sector Group Our Energy Coal CSG is one of the worlds largest producers and We also own 37.4 per cent of the Richards Bay Coal Terminal marketers of export thermal energy coal.
We mine energy coal in RBCT, through which Ingwes exports are shipped.
RBCT has South Africa, Australia, Colombia and the United States.
Most of a capacity of 72 mtpa.
Upon the completion of the sale of our domestic energy coal sales are under medium and long-term Koornfontein as referred to below, our holding of RBCT reduces fixed-price contracts with power generation companies and to 35.3 per cent.
utilities in Australian, South African and the US.
Most of our export In Australia, we mine energy coal at Mt Arthur mine.
We are sales are made under short and medium-term contracts in Europe, currently undertaking underground pre-feasibility work on the Asia and the US.
We deliver approximately one Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Ingwe Collieries Limited, third of Mt Arthurs production to local power stations via a we operate six coal mines in the Witbank region of Mpumalanga 10 kilometre overland conveyor.
The remainder is transported by province of South Africa.
In 2005-06, we supplied 30 million rail approximately 100 kilometres to the port of Newcastle.
tonnes of energy coal to Eskom, a public electricity service In New Mexico, we own and operate the Navajo open-cut and company in South Africa, and exported the bulk of the remaining San Juan underground mines.
Navajos production is sold to the 23 million tonnes.
In July 2006, we announced a memorandum of Four Corners Power Plant under long-term contracts.
San Juans understanding with Eskom to explore conversion of the Optimum production is sold to the nearby San Juan Generating Station under mine into a domestic producer which would exclusively supply long-term contracts.
The Cerrejon Coal Company operates open-cut mines in La Guajira province in northeastern Colombia.
Production is mainly for export.
Information on Energy Coal mining operations A description of our producing assets is listed in the following tables.
Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source SOUTH AFRICA Douglas We own 84% of the Douglas Douglas was commissioned in 1979.
Beneficiation facilities consist of a crushing colliery joint venture through plant and a wash plant.
The overall capacity 27 kilometres south of Ingwe Collieries Limited.
Witbank, Mpumalanga remaining 16% is owned by Province, South Africa Power is supplied by Eskom.
Xstrata Plc through Tavistock Underground mine Collieries Plc.
The mine is accessible We are the operators of the mine.
Ingwe and Tavistock are the Coal is exported via the holders of two Old Order Mining RBCT.
The coal is Rights in the joint venture ratio of transported to RBCT via 84:16 and Ingwe is the sole holder a Spoornet a of the Albion section right.
These government business Old Order Rights must be lodged enterprise railway.
for a conversion no later than 30 April 2009 see Government regulations.
Khutala We own and operate the mine at Khutala was commissioned in 1984.
Beneficiation facilities consist of a crushing Khutala.
plant, crusher and wash plant.
The overall 100 kilometres east of Open-cut operations began in 1996. nominal capacity is 18 mtpa of energy coal Johannesburg, Ingwe Collieries Limited is the The mining of a thermal metallurgical coal and 1.5 mtpa of metallurgical coal.
Mpumalanga Province, holder of an Old Order Mining deposit for a domestic market commenced South Africa Right.
Power is supplied by Eskom.
Combination of openAn application for conversion to a cut and underground New Order Mining Right, mines submitted in 2004, is still being processed see Government The mine is accessible regulations.
Domestic coal is transported via overland conveyor to Kendal Power Station.
Koornfontein We own and operate the mine at Koornfontein was commissioned in 1964.
Beneficiation facilities consist of three Koornfontein.
On 18 July 2006 we washing plants, each with a crusher.
35 kilometres south announced the sale of The overall capacity is 9 mtpa tonnes of of Middelburg, Koornfontein.
Mpumalanga Province, South Africa Koornfontein mine is the holder of Power is supplied by Eskom.
an Old Order Mining Right.
This Underground mine Old Order Mining Right has to be The mine is accessible lodged for a conversion to a New by public roads.
Order Mining Right by no later Export coal is than 30 April 2009 see transported to RBCT by Government regulations.
rail while the domestic coal is transported via conveyor belt to the nearby Majuba Power Station.
Information on the Company continued Information on Energy Coal mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source SOUTH AFRICA continued Middelburg We own 84% of the Middelburg Middelburg mine was commissioned in Beneficiation facilities consist of the mine in a joint venture.
Middelburg Mine Services MMS following: crushing plants, crush and wash 20 kilometres southeast remaining 16% is owned by and Duvha Opencast became one and fide-stone plants.
The overall capacity is from Witbank, Xstrata Plc through Tavistock operation in 1995-96.
South Africa In 2003, Douglas Opencast Operations was Power is supplied by Eskom.
We are the operators of the mine.
Open-cut mine Ingwe and Tavistock Collieries are The mine is accessible the holders of an Old Order by public roads.
Mining Right in the joint venture Export coal is ratio of 84:16.
This Old Order transported to RBCT by Mining Right must be lodged for a rail while the domestic conversion to a New Order Mining coal is transported via Right by no later than 30 April conveyor belt to the 2009 see Government nearby Duvha Power regulations.
Optimum We own and operate the mine at Optimum was commissioned in 1970.
Beneficiation facilities include a washing Optimum.
The overall 40 kilometres south of Optimum Colliery was expanded with the capacity is 17 mtpa.
Middelburg, Ingwe Collieries Ltd is the holder incorporation of the Eikeboom section in Mpumalanga Province, of an Old Order Mining Right, 1993 and the TNC in 1995.
South Africa which entitles Ingwe to continue The most recent expansion was the its existing mining operation.
Open-cut mine development of the Kwagga pit and Ingwe is obliged to lodge the said associated infrastructure, which was Access to the mine is Old Order Mining Right for completed in February 2001. via public roads.
conversion to a New Order Mining Export coal is Right by no later than 30 April transported to RBCT by 2009 see Government rail while the domestic regulations.
coal is transported via conveyor belt to the nearby Hendrina Power Station.
Klipspruit We own and operate the mine at The project was approved by the Beneficiation facilities consist of three Klipspruit.
Mpumalanga Department of Agriculture, crushing plants and a wash plant.
The 30 kilometres west of Conservation and Environment in 2003.
An overall capacity is 7.2 mtpa of energy coal.
Witbank, Mpumalanga Ingwe Collieries Limited is the initial mini-pit was started in August 2003 Province, South Africa holder of an Old Order Mining Power is supplied by Eskom.
as a truck and shovel contractor operation.
An application for Open-cut mine conversion to a New Order Mining The Klipspruit dragline was started up in The mine is accessible Right was submitted in 2004 and June 2005 and has since completed the by public highway.
is still being processed see initial box-cut.
AUSTRALIA Mt Arthur Coal We own and operate the mine at Coal production from the Mt Arthur north Main beneficiation facilities include coal Mt Arthur.
area commenced in April 2002. handling, coal preparation and coal washing Approximately plants with a total capacity of 9.8 mtpa.
100 kilometres from We hold various mining leases The on-site train-loading facility was Newcastle, New South that expire between October 2015 commissioned in November 2001.
Electrical power is supplied by local energy Wales, Australia and 2025. providers from the eastern Australia power grid.
Open-cut mine The mine is accessible by public road and over land to which we have title.
Domestic coal is transported by a 10 kilometre overland conveyor to Bayswater Power Station.
Export coal is transported by a combination of private and public rail approximately 100 kilometres to the port of Newcastle.
34 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 35 Information on Energy Coal mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source AMERICA BHP Navajo Coal We own and operate the mine.
The mine has been in operation since 1963, The mine has the capacity to produce and Company and the initial contract, scheduled to process 10.7 mtpa.
Coal that is mined is The mine is subject to a long-term expire in December 2004, was extended to sized and blended to contract specifications Navajo Nation, lease from the Navajo Nation.
The July 2016. using stackers and reclaimers with no further Farmington, New lease continues for as long as coal beneficiation.
Mexico, US can be economically produced and sold in paying quantities.
Electric power is supplied from FCPP.
Open-cut mine We hold various mining leases Navajo mine is that expire between October 2015 accessible by public and 2025. roads located on the Navajo Nation Indian Reservation.
We transport all coal 25 kilometres from the production areas via our dedicated railroad to the Four Corners Power Plant FCPP.
San Juan La Plata We own and operate the mines.
The mine began operating in 1974 as a The mine has the capacity to produce Mines surface mine.
In October 2000, we 9.0 mtpa of coal.
Coal that is mined is sized We hold mining leases from approved the development of the San Juan and blended to contract specifications using 25 kilometres west federal and state governments.
underground mine to replace production stockpiles with no further beneficiation.
of Farmington, The leases have five-year terms from the existing San Juan and La Plata New Mexico, US that are automatically extendable surface mines.
Underground longwall upon meeting minimum Underground mines mining commenced in February 2001 and production criteria.
The San Juan mine is the San Juan underground mine reached accessible by public full production in early 2004. roads.
COLOMBIA The Cerrejon Coal We own 33.33% of the Cerrejon The original mine began as a joint venture Beneficiation facilities include a crushing Company Coal Company in a joint venture.
between Exxons Intercor and the plant and washing plant with a capacity of The remaining 66.67% interest is Colombian Government entity Carbocol in 28 mtpa.
Maicao, La Guajira owned by Anglo American Plc 1976.
Over time the partners have province, Colombia Electricity is supplied through the local 33.33% and Xstrata Plc changed, nearby operations have been Colombian power system.
merged and progressive expansion The export facility is resulted in the current 28.0 mtpa Colombian Government leases 150 kilometres operation.
The northeast of the mine private lease expires in 2034. on the Caribbean coast at Puerto Bolivar and is connected to the mine by a single-track railway.
Access to the mine is via public roads and by charter aircraft to the mines airstrip.
Information on the Company continued Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group Our Stainless Steel Materials CSG is the worlds third largest nickel approximately 61 per cent of the nickel matte was sent by rail to producer.
Stainless Steel Materials primarily services the stainless our Kwinana refinery, while the rest was exported.
The Kwinana steel industry through its wide range of high-quality nickel refinery produces nickel metal LME briquettes and nickel powder, products.
We produce the following products: ammonium sulphate, copper sulphide and mixed sulphides mainly nickel and cobalt, which are exported excluding ammonium Nickel in the form of compacts, high-purity nickel briquettes and sulphate.
Ammonium sulphate is sold locally with any excess powders, high-purity ferro-nickel granules and chemical-grade exported.
Cobalt in the form of Chemgrade cobalt oxide hydroxide and Cerro Matoso is an integrated nickel mining, smelting and refining electrolytic cobalt cathodes.
operation located in northern Colombia.
Cerro Matoso is the worlds second largest producer of ferro-nickel and a nickel In addition, we supply nickel and cobalt to other markets, industry leader in unit cost of production.
Cerro Matoso combines including the specialty alloy, foundry, chemicals and refractory a high-grade lateritic nickel deposit with large-scale rotary material industries.
In the 2005-06 fiscal year, approximately 80 kiln electric furnace production facilities to produce ferro-nickel for per cent of our sales were to the stainless steel industry under a export.
mix of long-term and medium-term contracts with prices linked to the relevant LME prices.
Approximately 5 per cent of our sales The Yabulu refinery is a lateritic nickel and cobalt processing plant.
were made at spot LME prices.
We purchase approximately 3.5 wet mtpa of nickel and cobaltbearing laterite ore from third party mines in New Caledonia, We acquired Nickel West as part of the WMC acquisition in June Indonesia and the Philippines.
The purchases are made under short 2005.
Nickel West is the worlds third largest producer of nickel in and medium-term supply agreements.
It is a fully integrated nickel business comprising purity nickel and cobalt products that are used in the manufacture mines, concentrators, a smelter and a refinery in Western of stainless steel, specialty steels, alloys and chemicals.
We mine nickel ore at Leinster and Mt Keith and of the ore we purchase is linked to the nickel and cobalt metal concentrate the ore on-site.
The combined concentrate product is content and current LME metal prices.
We sell the nickel products transported by rail and mixed with concentrate from our Kambalda with varying metal content in the range 78 per cent to 99 per cent concentrator at our Kalgoorlie smelter.
We sell the cobalt in oxide-hydroxide form.
produces nickel matte and sulphuric acid.
During 2005-06, Information on Stainless Steel Materials mining operations Detailed descriptions of our producing assets are located in the tables below.
These tables should be read in conjunction with the production and reserve tables below.
Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source NICKEL Leinster We own and operate the mines at Production commenced in 1967.
Concentration plant with a nominal Leinster.
operating capacity of 3.0 mtpa of ore. 375 kilometres north of WMC purchased the Leinster nickel Kalgoorlie in Western Leases are currently within their operations in 1988 from Mt Isa Mines and Power at the Kambalda, Mt Keith and Australia initial 21-year lease period.
Leinster nickel operations and at the further 21-year term is available.
Kalgoorlie nickel smelter is primarily derived Open-cut and In June 2005, we gained control of Nickel Further renewals are at the from on-site third party gas-fired turbines.
underground mines West Leinster and Mt Keith as part of the Ministers discretion.
The leases Gas for these turbines is sourced by us from acquisition of WMC.
The mine is accessible have expiry dates between 2009 the northwest gas fields.
The existing gas by government-owned and 2026. supply contract terminates in November road and rail.
2006 and a new contract expiring in October Nickel concentrate is 2013 has been negotiated shipped by rail to the The gas is transported through the Kalgoorlie smelter.
Goldfields Gas Pipeline pursuant to an agreement with Southern Cross Energy that expires in January 2014.
Mt Keith We own and operate the mine at The Mt Keith mine was officially Concentration plant with a nominal capacity Mt Keith.
commissioned in January 1995 by WMC.
of 11.5 mtpa of ore. 460 kilometres north of Kalgoorlie, Western Leases are currently within In June 2005, we gained control of Nickel Power is sourced from the same supplier Australia, Australia their initial 21-year lease period.
West Leinster and Mt Keith as part of the under the same conditions as the Leinster A further 21-year term is available.
Open-cut mine Further renewals are at the The mine is accessible Ministers discretion.
The lease by private road.
expiry dates range between 2008 Nickel concentrate is and 2015. transported by road to Leinster nickel operations from where it is transported by public rail to Kalgoorlie smelter.
36 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 37 Information on Stainless Steel Materials mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source NICKEL continued Cerro Matoso We own 99.82% of CMSA.
0.18% Mining commenced in 1980 and nickel Beneficiation plant consists of a primary and is held by employees.
production started in 1982 under secondary crusher, ore storage and blender Montelibano, Crdoba, Colombian Government, BHP Billiton and and rotary kiln with a nominal capacity of Colombia Mining concession rights extend Hanna Mining ownership.
Open-cut mine In 1989, BHP Billiton increased its Land on which reserves are The mine is accessible ownership to 53% and in 1997 to 99.8%.
In 1999, an expansion project to double installed capacity was started and in January 2001 the first metal was tapped from the second line.
Information on Stainless Steel Materials smelters, refineries and processing plants Operation and location Ownership, operation and title Plant type product Capacity NICKEL Kambalda We own and operate the Mill and concentrator plant producing The Kambalda concentrator has a capacity Kambalda nickel concentrator.
concentrate containing approximately of 1.5 mtpa of ore. 56 kilometres south of 13% nickel.
Kalgoorlie, Western Ore is sourced through tolling and Power arrangements are the same as for the Australia, Australia concentrate purchase Leinster mine see above.
arrangements with third parties in the Kambalda region.
We hold 21-year leases over the land from the Western Australian Government.
The lease expiry dates range between 2007 and 2027.
Further renewals are at the Governments discretion.
Kalgoorlie nickel We own and operate the The flash smelting process produces matte The Kalgoorlie smelter has a capacity of smelter Kalgoorlie nickel smelter operation containing approximately 68% nickel.
110,000 tonnes per annum of nickel matte.
and hold freehold title over the Kalgoorlie, Western Power arrangements are the same as for the property, plant and equipment.
Australia, Australia Leinster mine see above.
Kwinana nickel We own and operate the Kwinana The refinery uses the Sherritt-Gordon The Kwinana nickel refinery has a capacity refinery nickel refinery operation and hold ammonia leach process to convert nickel of 70,000 tonnes per annum of nickel metal.
freehold title over the property, matte from the Kalgoorlie nickel smelter 30 kilometres south of Power generated by Southern Cross Energy plant and equipment.
into LME grade nickel briquettes and nickel Perth, Western in the goldfields is distributed across powder.
Australia, Australia Western Powers network for use at the The refinery also produces a number of Kwinana Nickel Refinery.
We purchase intermediate products, including copper delivered gas for use at the Kwinana Nickel sulphide, cobalt-nickel sulphide and Refinery.
This gas is sourced from North ammonium sulphate.
The cobalt-nickel West Shelf gas fields and is transported by sulphide is treated by a third party the Dampier to Bunbury Natural Gas Pipeline processor that separates the nickel and and the Parmelia Pipeline.
The existing gas supply contract terminates in November 2006 and a new contract expiring in October 2013 has been negotiated.
Cerro Matoso We own 99.82% of CMSA with the The ferro-nickel smelter and refinery are Plant design capacity is 50,000 tonnes per remaining 0.18% held by integrated with the open-cut mine.
Actual capacity depends on nickel Montelibano, Crdoba, employees.
Colombia Ore is fed into two rotary driers and then CMSA holds freehold title over the along with coal fed into two rotary kilns.
Electricity is supplied from the national grid property, plant and equipment.
based on supply contracts negotiated for The kilns feed the two electric furnaces, five-year periods.
which produce the molten metal that is tapped in 55 tonne ladles and sent for A pipeline supplies nationally sourced refining into ferro-nickel granules of natural gas for drier and kiln operation.
Information on the Company continued Information on Stainless Steel Materials smelters, refineries and processing plants continued Operation and location Ownership, operation and title Plant type product Capacity NICKEL continued Yabulu We own and operate Yabulu and Yabulu consists of a major laterite nickel The Yabulu refinery has an annual hold freehold title over the refinery and cobalt refinery.
production capacity of approximately 32,000 25 kilometres northwest refinery property, plant and tonnes of nickel and 2,000 tonnes of cobalt.
of Townsville, The Yabulu refinery has two major equipment.
We process lateritic nickel ore Currently we source power and steam from The berth, ore handling facilities using the reduction roast ammoniaa combination of on-site coal-fired and oiland fuel oil facilities at the ammonium carbonate leaching process in fired boilers and electrical power under a Townsville port are situated on combination with a solvent extraction long-term electricity supply agreement with long-term leasehold land.
process that was developed and patented Ergon Energy and coal seam gas from at the refinery.
separates the nickel and cobalt.
Our cobalt purification plant produces a high-purity cobalt oxide hydroxide product.
Development projects Yabulu In March 2004, we approved the expansion of the Yabulu refinery in conjunction with the development of the Ravensthorpe Nickel Project described below.
The expansion will increase nickel production capacity of the existing solvent extraction and cobalt processing facilities to an estimated 76,000 tonnes per annum and extend the life of the refinery by approximately 25 years.
First nickel metal production is expected from the expanded refinery in 2007.
The current forecast cost of the project is US$460 million.
Ravensthorpe The Ravensthorpe Nickel Project was approved in March 2004 and has an approved budget of US$1,340 million.
However, the project continues to experience cost and schedule pressure as a result of the heated market in Western Australia.
Cost pressures are likely to result in a capital cost increase of at least 30 per cent.
A detailed review of both the cost and delivery schedule commenced during the June 2006 quarter.
The project includes the development of a mine, treatment plant and associated infrastructure near Ravensthorpe in Western Australia.
The Ravensthorpe processing plant will produce a mixed nickel cobalt hydroxide intermediate product, which will feed the expansion of the Yabulu refinery described above.
38 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 39 Production Petroleum The table below details our Petroleum CSGs historical net crude oil and condensate, natural gas, LNG, LPG and ethane production by region for the three years ended 30 June 2006, 2005 and 2004.
We have shown volumes and tonnages of marketable production after deduction of applicable royalties, fuel and flare.
We have included in the table average production costs per unit of production and average sales prices for oil and condensate and natural gas for each of those periods.
BHP Billiton Group share of production Year ended 30 June 2006 2005 2004 Petroleum Crude oil and condensate 000 of barrels Australia Asia 25,401 31,090 38,912 Americas 7,327 7,605 7,477 Europe Africa Middle East 13,145 12,145 1 1,638 Total crude oil and condensate 45,873 50,840 58,027 Natural gas M of cubic feet Australia Asia domestic 203.38 189.83 165.35 Australia Asia LNG leasehold production 88.20 83.09 60.84 Americas 8.04 15.01 20.59 Europe Africa Middle East 60.82 57.75 77.56 Total natural gas 360.44 345.68 324.34 LPG 000 tonnes Australia Asia leasehold production 641.12 640.13 652.85 Europe Africa Middle East leasehold production 172.72 219.97 200.68 Total LPG 813.84 860.10 853.53 Ethane 000 tonnes Australia Asia leasehold production 106.15 101.53 94.30 1 Total petroleum products M barrels of oil equivalent 115.95 119.03 122.47 Average sales price Oil and condensate US$ per barrel 61.90 47.16 32.24 Natural gas US$ per thousand cubic feet 3.33 2.98 2.62 2 Average production cost US$ per barrel of oil equivalent including indirect taxes 6.40 5.72 4.32 US$ per barrel of oil equivalent excluding indirect taxes 5.01 4.16 3.27 1 Total barrels of oil equivalent boe conversions based on the following: 6,000 scf of natural gas equals 1 boe: 1 tonne of LPG equals 11.6 boe: 1 tonne of ethane equals 4.4667 boe.
2 Average production costs include direct and indirect production costs relating to the production and transportation of hydrocarbons to the point of sale.
This includes shipping where applicable.
Average production costs have been shown excluding resource tax and including and excluding other indirect taxes and duties and including the foreign exchange effect of translating local currency denominated costs and indirect taxes into US$.
In prior years resource taxes were included: production costs have been restated to exclude resource taxes.
Information on the Company continued Minerals The table below details our mineral and derivative product production for all CSGs except Petroleum for the three years ended 30 June 2006, 2005 and 2004.
Production shows our share unless otherwise stated.
BHP Billiton Group share of production Year ended 30 June BHP Billiton interest % 2006 2005 2004 Aluminium Alumina Production 000 tonnes Worsley, Australia 86 2,763 2,813 2,799 MRN Alumar, Brazil 36 503 495 507 Paranam, Suriname 45 921 874 918 Total alumina 4,187 4,182 4,224 Aluminium Production 000 tonnes Hillside, RSA 100 700 685 622 1 Bayside, RSA 100 179 166 184 Mozal, Mozambique 47 262 260 250 Alumar, Brazil 40 178 176 1 56 Valesul, Brazil 45.5 43 43 44 Total aluminium 1,362 1,330 1,256 2 Base Metals Copper Payable metal in concentrate 000 tonnes Escondida, Chile 57.5 671.0 578.2 514.9 Antamina, Peru 33.75 124.2 123.
Information on the Company continued BHP Billiton Group share of production Year ended 30 June BHP Billiton interest % 2006 2005 2004 Manganese ores Saleable production 000 tonnes 16 Hotazel, South Africa 60 2,300 2,508 2,502 16 GEMCO, Australia 60 2,980 2,947 2,451 Total manganese ores 5,280 5,455 4,953 Manganese alloys Saleable production 000 tonnes 16 South Africa 60 434 492 462 16 Australia 60 218 263 250 Total manganese alloys 652 755 712 Diamonds and Specialty Products Production 000 carats EKATI, Canada 80 2,561 3,617 5,482 Total diamonds 2,561 3,617 5,482 17 18 Titanium minerals 19 Titanium slag Production 000 tonnes Richards Bay Minerals, RSA 50 430 363 350 20 Rutile Production 000 tonnes Richards Bay Minerals, RSA 50 36 33 35 20 Zircon Production 000 tonnes Richards Bay Minerals, RSA 50 11 8 11 0 1 1 8 Phosphates Production 000 tonnes 7 21 22 Southern Cross Fertiliser formerly Queensland Fertilizer 100 861.3 73.9 Total phosphates 861.3 73.9 Energy Coal Production 000 tonnes Navajo 100 8,266 8,245 7,216 San Juan 100 7,080 6,682 6,014 New Mexico, US 100 15,346 14,927 13,230 Optimum 100 11,805 12,600 13,340 Middelburg 100 13,705 13,780 1 4, 1 30 Douglas 100 5,123 5,670 5,430 Koornfontein 100 4,809 5,470 5,490 Khutala 100 13,625 15,070 14,740 Klipspruit 100 2,632 1,470 560 Zululand Anthracite Colleries 100 249 590 560 Total Ingwe, RSA 100 51,948 54,650 54,250 Mt Arthur Coal, Australia 100 9,146 9,865 8,718 Cerrejon Coal Company, Colombia 33.3 9,316 7,974 7,684 Total energy coal 85,756 87,416 83,882 42 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 43 BHP Billiton Group share of production Year ended 30 June BHP Billiton interest % 2006 2005 2004 Stainless Steel Materials Nickel Production 000 tonnes Cerro Matoso SA, Colombia 99.8 51.5 51.3 49.1 7 Nickel West, Australia 100 100.1 9.2 0.0 Yabulu, Australia 100 23.3 31.4 32.6 Total nickel 174.9 91.9 81.7 Ferrochrome Saleable production 000 tonnes 23 South Africa 60 954 1,026 1 11 During 2005, Bayside experienced a total potline freeze at the end of April, Production statistics relate to pellet production and concentrate and which impacted on the production capacity of the facility.
2 12 Metal production is reported on the basis of payable metal.
The Yandi Reserves listed include the Western 4 deposit in which the JFE 3 BHP Billiton sold Tintaya effective from 1 June 2006.
In 2005, production Western 4 Joint Venture JW4 JV participants BHP Billiton Minerals Pty Ltd was temporarily suspended on 25 May 2005 following civil unrest in the 65%, ITOCHU Minerals and Energy of Australia Pty Ltd 8%, Mitsui Iron Espinar region.
Ore Corporation Pty Ltd 7% and a subsidiary of JFE Steel Corporation 4 BHP Billiton sold its interest in Highland Valley Copper with effect from a Japanese steelmaker 20% have a legal interest.
The effect of the sales 3 January 2005. contracts entered into between the JW4 joint venture participants and the 5 Production at Selbaie ceased in February 2004, in accordance with mine Yandi joint venture participants and other associated agreements is that plan.
BHP Billiton as a Yandi joint venture participant has an entitlement to 6 Production at Cerro Colorado was temporarily suspended on 14 June 2005 85% of the reserves in the Western 4 deposit.
This disclosure and the following an earthquake.
Production commenced at half capacity on financial statements are prepared on this basis.
13 30 June 2005 and ramped up to pre-earthquake levels in January 2006.
Metallurgical coal production is reported on the basis of saleable product.
7 BHP Billiton acquired this asset with the acquisition of WMC.
The 2005 Production figures include some thermal coal.
14 production figure is shown from 1 June 2005.
8 15 Iron ore production is reported on a wet tonnes basis with the exception Shown on 100% basis.
BHP Billiton interest in saleable production is 80%.
BHP Billiton interest in saleable production is 60%.
9 17 The Jimblebar Reserves listed include the Wheelarra Hill 3, 4, 5, 6 and Amounts represent production for the year ended 31 December.
18 Hashimoto 1 and 2 deposits at Jimblebar, in which the Wheelarra joint 2005 data is from the TZ Minerals International Mineral Sands Report for venture participants BHP Iron Ore Jimblebar 51%, ITOCHU Minerals May 2006.
The 2003 and 2004 data was sourced from TZ Minerals and Energy 4.8%, Mitsui Iron Ore 4.2% and subsidiaries from Chinese International Mineral Sands Annual Review 2005.
19 steelmakers Magang, Shagang, Tanggang and Wugang 10% each have TZ Minerals International Pty Ltd estimates Richard Bay Minerals slag a legal interest.
At the commencement of the Wheelarra joint venture on production from data reported by Rio Tinto assuming TiO content at 86%.
2 20 1 October 2005 the Wheelarra joint venture participants had a legal TZ Minerals International Pty Ltd estimates Richards Bay Minerals rutile interest in 175 million dry metric tonnes of Jimblebar reserves Wheelarra and zircon production from a variety of industry sources assuming a TiO 2 joint venture tonnes.
The effect of the sales contracts entered into content at 94.5%.
21 between the Wheelarra joint venture participants and the Mt Newman joint BHP Billiton announced the sale of Southern Cross Fertiliser formerly venture participants and other associated agreements is that BHP Billiton Queensland Fertilizer in May 2006.
22 as a Mt Newman joint venture participant has an entitlement to 85% of Includes di-ammonium phosphate and mono-ammonium phosphate.
23 these Wheelarra joint venture tonnes.
This disclosure and the financial BHP Billiton sold its interest in Samancor Chrome with effect from statements are prepared on this basis.
10 The Mt Goldsworthy Area C Reserves listed include C deposit within Area C in which the POSMAC joint venture participants BHP Billiton Minerals Pty Ltd 65%, ITOCHU Minerals and Energy of Australia Pty Ltd 8%, Mitsui Iron Ore Corporation Pty Ltd 7% and a subsidiary of POSCO a Korean steelmaker 20% have a legal interest.
The effect of the sales contracts entered into between the POSMAC joint venture participants and the Mt Goldsworthy joint venture participants and other associated agreements is that BHP Billiton as a Mt Goldsworthy joint venture participant has an entitlement to 85% of the reserves in C deposit.
This disclosure and the financial statements are prepared on this basis.
Information on the Company continued Marketing Freight Trading and Logistics Our customer focused marketing group manages the sale and delivery of our products.
The marketing group is based around We have a centralised ocean freight business that manages our hubs in The Hague and Singapore, and network offices at strategic in-house freight requirements.
locations around the world, including Shanghai, Tokyo, Seoul, The primary purpose of the freight business is to create Pittsburgh, Houston, Johannesburg and Rio fide Janeiro allowing competitive advantages for us through the procurement and for close proximity to our customers.
The marketing group is operation of quality and cost-effective shipping, and to contribute organised along the lines of a matrix, with sections within the to our profitability by trading freight and carrying complementary group being primarily responsible for marketing the products of a external cargoes.
In addition to marketing our own products, we also market third party products under a variety of marketing The freight business participates primarily in the dry bulk sector arrangements.
Our Energy Marketing EM group also trades a aligned with our major trades and handles approximately variety of energy related products as described below.
115 million tonnes of cargo per year.
At any one time we have approximately 100 ships employed making the Group one of the In addition to our commodities marketing desks we provide a worlds largest users of dry bulk shipping.
The vast majority of centralised freight trading and logistics service to the Group.
vessels are chartered under various commercial terms though the Energy Marketing business retains equity interest in a small number of vessels.
External freight revenue was approximately US$629 million for Energy Marketing EM was set up in July 2002, with the 2005-06. responsibility of coordinating our marketing activities in the energy commodity markets, namely coal, gas, emissions credits and The freight business is based in The Hague, where it is an integral electricity and uranium oxide.
The group is based in The Hague part of the BHP Billiton marketing group.
Smaller Melbourne and and is part of our marketing function.
Singapore-based groups are in place to directly support Australian and Pacific-based shipping activities.
EM is currently active in purchasing and selling third party physical gas and small amounts of electricity in the UK and emissions In addition to its freight management and trading activities, the credits in Europe.
In the 2004-05 year EM also participated in gas freight business incorporates a skill base to manage its marine risk storage capacity to facilitate its gas sale and purchase activities.
It holds a number of marine-related Where required, EM also buys or sells pipeline capacity to investments including a shareholding in shipping risk manager transport gas onto the UK gas grid.
Most products are transacted Rightships of Melbourne.
over the counter and are  transactions in the wholesale market.
The emissions strategy is largely defensive to meet internal asset requirements as well as to facilitate increased coal sales into Europe.
Minerals exploration Our exploration program is integral to our growth strategy and is We are also pursuing an increasing number of opportunities in focused on identifying and capturing new world-class projects for prospective developing countries.
For example, while we continue future development, or projects that add value to existing to pursue copper exploration activities in Chile and Peru, we are operations.
Targets for this group are generally large, low-cost also exploring opportunities in the Democratic Republic of Congo mining projects in a range of minerals including bauxite, coal, DRC, Mongolia and Kazakhstan.
Likewise, in diamonds we have copper, diamonds, iron ore, manganese, nickel and silver.
The an extensive program in Canada, Angola and the DRC.
In nickel we process of discovery runs from early-stage mapping through the have a program in Western Australia and we are also exploring in full range to drilling.
The program is global and prioritises targets, the Philippines, Africa and Brazil.
In the bulk commodities, consistent with our assessment of the relative attractiveness of activities are focused on a smaller number of world-class terrains each mineral.
in Australia, Brazil and west Africa.
To improve our exploration effectiveness we developed and Our exploration activities are organised from seven principal operate the FALCON, GEOFERRET and SOLIDEARTH offices in Perth, Australia: Rio fide Janeiro, Brazil: Vancouver, 3D modelling systems.
FALCON is an airborne gravity Canada: Santiago, Chile: Beijing, China: Moscow, Russia: and gradiometer that measures minute changes in the Earths gravity.
This technology provides us with a considerable advantage in the In addition to our centralised exploration function, several of our search for mineral and hydrocarbon deposits.
GEOFERRET is a CSGs undertake exploration activities, principally aimed at deep penetrating ground electromagnetic system that is specially delineating and categorising mineral deposits at existing designed for the detection of conductive, deep mineral deposits.
These systems enable us to reinvigorate exploration in established In 2005-06 we spent US$326 million on minerals exploration.
areas and have opened up new exploration opportunities for us, Of this, US$134 million was spent by the centralised function and both on our own and through arrangements with junior explorers.
US$192 million was spent at the CSG level.
Of the CSG expenditure We are currently using FALCON for diamond exploration in total, US$76 million was spent to acquire a five-year coal Canada and southern Africa, and for copper, nickel, iron and coal exploration in Australia.
GEOFERRET is in use for nickel exploration licence in the Gunnedah Basin Australia.
44 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 45 Technology We operate four industrial research and development laboratories technology development we are seeking.
The number of staff located in Melbourne, Perth and Newcastle in Australia, and members directly employed on these activities is approximately 220.
The tasks of the laboratories are to: The main activities of the four research laboratories are: Develop and implement technologies that can provide Newcastle mining, ferrous and non-ferrous minerals competitive advantages and growth options for both existing processing, hydrometallurgy, pyrometallurgy, mineralogy, product assets and new assets.
Support our marketing programs, especially in Carbon Steel Melbourne gravity gradiometry technology and mine Materials and Energy Coal, with predictive modelling of various optimisation.
material sources when used by our customers in their products.
Johannesburg non-ferrous minerals processing, bio-mining, Reduce technical risk in new capital projects.
remediation, process engineering, chemistry, microbiology and To ensure alignment with the CSGs, these activities are paid for by mineralogy.
the business groups within the CSGs.
Our proprietary FALCON Perth process control and mineralogy.
gravity gradiometry is a good example of the type of new Government regulations Government regulations touch all aspects of BHP Billitons abolishes the prior system of privately held mineral rights.
However, because of the geographical diversity of our rights granted under the previous system, known as Old Order operations, no one set of government regulations is likely to have Rights, must apply to convert their rights to New Order Rights a material effect on our business, taken as a whole.
The ability to extract minerals, oil and natural gas is fundamental In order for the conversions to be effected, we will be required to our business.
In most jurisdictions, the rights to undeveloped to comply with the terms of the Broad Based Socio Economic mineral or petroleum deposits are owned by the state.
Accordingly, Empowerment Charter, which has been published under the Act.
we rely upon the rights granted to us by the government that The Charter requires holders of mining rights to achieve 26 per owns the mineral, oil or natural gas.
These rights usually take the cent ownership participation by historically disadvantaged South form of a lease or licence, which gives us the right to access the Africans in their mining operations by 30 April 2014, of which land and extract the product.
The terms of the lease or licence, 15 per cent needs to be achieved by 30 April 2009. including the time period for which it is effective, are specific to The Act and the Mining Charter are not specific as to how the the laws of the relevant government.
Generally, we own the 26 per cent will be measured for example, value or tonnage or a product we extract and royalties or similar taxes are payable to combination of both.
As a result, the South African Government the government.
Some of our operations, such as our oil and published a scorecard that provides guidelines for measuring the gas operations in Trinidad and Tobago and Algeria, are subject progress of mining companies towards meeting the requirements of to production sharing contracts under which both we as the the Mining Charter.
Under the scorecard approach, the requirements contractor and the government are entitled to a share of the for conversion deal not only with ownership, but also with such production.
In addition, the contractor is entitled to recover its aspects as management, procurement and social development.
exploration and productions cost from governments share of We support the broad objectives of the Mining Charter, most of production.
which accord with long-established programs that we have under Related to the ability to extract is the ability to process the minerals, way.
We are already a prominent participant in the South African oil or natural gas.
Again, we rely upon the relevant government to empowerment processes, including various empowerment grant the rights necessary to transport and treat the extracted transactions, corporate social investment through the BHP Billiton material in order to ready it for sale.
Development Trust and the Samancor Foundation, and in Underlying our business of extracting and processing natural employment and procurement equity across our operations.
resources is the ability to explore for those orebodies.
The rights to Uranium production in Australia explore for minerals, oil and natural gas are granted to us by the government that owns those natural resources that we wish to To mine, process, transport and sell uranium from within Australia explore.
Usually, the right to explore carries with it the obligation we are required to hold possession and export permissions, which to spend a defined amount of money on the exploration or to are also subject to regulation by the Australian Government or undertake particular exploration activities.
bodies that report to the Australian Government.
Governments also impose obligations on us in respect of To possess nuclear material such as uranium in Australia, a Permit environmental protection, land rehabilitation, occupational health to Possess Nuclear Materials Possession Permit must be held and safety and native land title with which we must comply in pursuant to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Safeguards Act 1987 order to continue to enjoy the right to conduct our operations Cth Non-Proliferation Act.
A Possession Permit is issued by the within that jurisdiction.
These obligations often require us to make Australian Safeguards and Non-Proliferation Office, an office substantial expenditures to minimise or remediate the established under the Non-Proliferation Act, which administers environmental impact of our operations, to ensure the safety Australias domestic nuclear safeguards requirements and that of our employees and contractors and the like.
For further reports to the Australian Government.
information on these types of obligations, refer to the Health, To export uranium from Australia, a Permit to Export Natural Safety, Environment and Community subsection of the Business Uranium Export Permit must be held pursuant to the Customs overview section of this Report.
The Export Permit is Of particular note are the following regulatory regimes: issued by the Minister for Industry, Tourism and Resources.
A special transport permit will be required under the NonSouth African Mining Charter Proliferation Act by a party that transports nuclear material from As outlined in Risk factors section of this report, the Mineral and one specified location to another specified location.
As we engage Petroleum Resources Development Act 2002 took effect on 1 May service providers to transport uranium, those service providers are 2004.
It provides for state custodianship of all mineral deposits and required to hold a special transport permit.
Information on the Company continued Health, Safety, Environment and Community the funding provided is used in an optimal manner.
Entry into HIV AIDS treatment programs provided through the medical Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive general and insurers is confidential to the employee.
industry-specific, health, safety and environmental regulations in countries where we operate.
These regulations include those relating We recognise the potential implications of the December 1997 to mine rehabilitation, the handling and disposal of hazardous and Kyoto Protocol, as well as other policy developments at an non-hazardous materials and occupational health and safety.
international, national and sub-national level.
These policies include the Emissions Trading System of the European Union EU We employ health, safety, environment and community experts ETS and the Asia-Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and to advise us on technical and regulatory matters relevant to the Climate AP6, as well as various regulatory measures to improve management of our facilities and operations and we continually energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
The EU invest in plant and equipment to ensure that we comply with our ETS, which began its first phase of emissions trading in January obligations under health, safety and environmental laws and 2005, imposes formal requirements regarding greenhouse gas regulations.
emissions management on our Petroleum assets in the UK and it The costs of future compliance or further investments required has had an impact on some of our Energy Coal customers in to meet health, safety and environment laws and regulations are Europe.
The AP6 partnership sets out an agenda to identify mutual difficult to estimate, but we consider it unlikely that these costs interest and commercial benefit as key steps in addressing the would have a material adverse effect on our financial position or challenge of climate change and is committed to establishing a results of operations.
practical path for the development and deployment of technical solutions to climate change.
It is uncertain at this stage how these Our approach to Health, Safety, Environment and the Community evolving policy developments will affect our operations or HSEC is incorporated in our Charter our Charter is a statement customers over time.
that outlines the Groups purpose, values and overall mission, which states that we have an overriding commitment to health, The European Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of safety, environmental responsibility and sustainable development.
Chemicals REACH system is anticipated to commence operation This is further codified in our Sustainable Development Policy in April 2007.
REACH will require manufacturers, importers and released in September 2005 and superseding our earlier Health, downstream users of chemical substances, including metals and Safety, Environment and Community Policy, which states that we minerals, to establish that substances can be used without will: negatively affecting health or the environment.
The extent to uphold ethical business practices and meet or, where less which our operations and customers are impacted by these stringent than our Standards, exceed applicable legal and other changes is not yet clear as final wording is still being debated.
requirements Additional compliance costs, litigation expenses, regulatory delays, set and achieve targets that promote efficient use of resources remediation expenses and operational costs may eventuate.
and include reducing and preventing pollution Petroleum engage regularly, openly and honestly with people affected by In May 1998, we divested our petroleum businesses in Hawaii.
our operations, and take their views and concerns into account We indemnified the buyers for certain past liabilities and capped in our decision-making.
this indemnification at US$10 million, much of which has now been In addition, we follow management standards that form the basis spent.
Following the divestment, we retained some environmental for the implementation of our Sustainable Development Policy and liabilities for which we have indemnified the buyer and that are associated management systems at all levels.
They cover the entire uncapped, as described below.
life cycle of our activities from exploration and development to We operated a petroleum terminal, now decommissioned, at a site operations, including decommissioning, closure and rehabilitation.
that is within an area that has since been declared a Hawaii State To complement the management standards, our sites assess their Superfund Site.
We are currently participating in a voluntary effort potential exposure to human rights issues using a self-assessment with a number of other parties to undertake site assessment, to be tool.
This is consistent with our target of ensuring that we are not followed by a risk assessment and, ultimately, risk-based corrective involved in transgressions of the Principles contained in the United actions.
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Also within the Superfund area is land owned by us, which Closure-related activities have the potential to impact cash flow, previously contained a manufactured gas plant.
Litigation over a accounting provisions, residual liabilities and access to future claim brought by a neighbour, Castle and Cooke, asserting that resources.
We have adopted a Closure Standard in response to contamination on its property arose from this land, was settled in these issues.
The Standard comprises a number of requirements December 2000.
We have engaged a contractor to remediate the including estimating expected cost and financial provisioning for former gas plant site to the satisfaction of the Hawaii Department closure.
We make provision for the rehabilitation and closure of of Health and to meet conditions of the Settlement Agreement.
the Groups mining and processing facilities along with the The State of Hawaii has previously requested information from us decommissioning of offshore oil platforms and infrastructure with respect to contaminated material unearthed in the vicinity of associated with petroleum activities.
another former manufactured gas plant site in Hilo.
HIV AIDS infection among our southern African workforce is a In April 2006, as result of a cracked pipe a small volume of oil significant issue, as it is in southern Africa generally.
UNAIDS 0.8 cubic metres was released from the Lennox Platform into estimates 18.8 per cent of adults in South Africa aged 1549 Liverpool Bay.
Response actions were undertaken and clean-up years are HIV positive and the rate is increasing.
The HIV AIDS was completed.
infection rate of our southern African workforce is currently In the UK and Australia, operators of offshore petroleum facilities estimated at 14 per cent and is expected to increase over the next are required by law to develop and submit a safety case to the decade.
The costs and lost workers time associated with HIV AIDS regulator for review and acceptance before they can operate.
may adversely affect our southern African operations.
We have set Under the regulations, the operator is required to demonstrate, up universal health insurance for all employees as a condition of through a formal process of safety studies, risk assessment and employment.
Funding provided by the Company for all employees cost-benefit analysis measured against specific performance ensures that appropriate, affordable insurance is available, standards and acceptance criteria, that the risks to the safety of including provision of relevant anti-retroviral treatment for workers on the facility have been reduced to a level which is as HIV AIDS, and in some cases this is associated with a managed low as reasonably practicable.
care program to ensure that HIV AIDS is properly coordinated and 46 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 47 Our safety cases have been accepted for all our operated offshore on land reclaimed from our former steel business.
We cannot facilities in the UK and Australia.
We are also ensuring safety cases accurately determine our potential liability at any point in time are developed and implemented for new petroleum projects, during the term of the guarantee.
However, we do not consider including where it is not a requirement of local legislation.
We are that the cost, if any, will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.
continuing to improve the safety cases by conducting regular reviews in consultation with our workforce.
We have completed a life cycle analysis of our major products.
This study will continue as we develop a strategy to reduce Aluminium potential impacts from the use of our products.
We are actively involved within the aluminium industry to develop protocols for measurement and management of greenhouse gas as Diamonds and Specialty Products a consequence of aluminium production.
Our operations focus is BHP Billiton Diamonds Inc concluded the process of renewing the on the reduction of greenhouse gas intensity and fluoride main EKATI Diamond Mine Water Licence in October 2005 for the emissions through the implementation of technology and period to 2013 on largely similar terms and conditions to those of management of ongoing operational practices to improve the original Water Licence.
EKATI remains a signatory to the Kimberly Process, which is a key We have contributed to a life cycle analysis of aluminium endproduct stewardship global initiative of the diamond industry to products through our participation in the industry association.
This ensure the verification of the source of diamonds across the world.
study will continue as we develop a strategy to reduce potential Energy Coal impacts from the use of our products.
One fatal accident occurred in June 2006 at the Ingwe Rietspruit Base Metals mine South Africa, as a result of injuries sustained by a contractor One fatal accident occurred in July 2005 as a result of injuries after the accidental release of coal into the flask in which he was sustained by an employee when a drill from an approaching drive working.
face triggered an unplanned detonation at the Olympic Dam We recognise that climate change is a challenge for Energy Coal Australia underground mine.
and we are seeking to respond to this through supporting targeted research aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions, particularly We are currently updating closure plans and costing for all assets, including the recently acquired Olympic Dam operation in for our customers.
Climate change issues are also considered in all relevant business decisions.
Australia, to be consistent with the corporate Closure Standard.
In Peru and Chile, newly developing regulation on mine closure will Energy Coal had one significant environmental incident during require submission of these plans and posting of financial 2005-06 at an Ingwe operation, involving the discharge of poor assurance in the coming years.
Closure plans and costing have quality water during abnormally high rainfall conditions.
This has been completed for all Base Metals closed mines.
resulted in a review of our long-term water management strategy, including possible fast tracking of treatment alternatives.
Financial Radiation management and product stewardship of both copper provisions have been made to address these changes.
Action plans and uranium are higher profile management issues with the are under development to implement the updated water strategy.
We have conducted a life cycle analysis of our products.
This study The responsible management of groundwater resources in arid will continue as we develop a strategy to reduce potential impacts environments is a priority for Base Metals, particularly with from the use of our products.
increasing water demand for our expanding operations.
Base Metals is placing a priority on reducing fresh water consumption Stainless Steel Materials and maintaining ecosystems in our water resource areas.
One fatal accident occurred in February 2006 at the Leinster Nickel BHP Copper has retained management of certain responsibilities Operation Australia underground mine as a result of injuries associated with prior operations of BHP Copper Superior United sustained by a contractor after an unplanned detonation of a States.
The Arizona Department of Environmental Quality cannon during set-up to clear a blocked orepass.
Voluntary Remediation Program VRP that has been implemented The European Union has conducted a comprehensive health risk includes a review to determine any possible health risks associated with properties adjacent to the facility.
A formal risk assessment is assessment of five nickel substances nickel metal and the soluble nickel compounds of nickel sulphate, carbonate, chloride and being reviewed to determine if any future work is required.
The risk assessment has concluded that under the EU rules At the closed Elliot Lake Canada uranium properties, which we of classification, soluble nickel compounds are category 1 acquired as part of our acquisition of Rio Algom Ltd in 2000, carcinogens, category 3 mutagens and category 2 reproductive licences for long-term care were issued in September 2002 by the toxicants.
Nickel metal remains a category 3 carcinogen but this Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission for five of eight historic will be reviewed in 2007 following the conclusion of a current properties.
The remaining three properties were added to the animal study.
The new classifications may result in more stringent licence after public hearings held in April 2004.
Following the last exposure standards.
We are currently assessing the impact that the hearing on the licence renewal in December 2005, the Commission more stringent EU exposure limits could have on our operations in decided to issue the long-term care licence for an indefinite period Colombia and Australia, although the risk of exposure to soluble based on the existing long-term care commitments, with formal nickel salts at our operations is low.
We continue to provide our reviews every five years.
employees and contractors with information on health, safety and environmental issues associated with our products.
We also Carbon Steel Materials provide advice on the responsible use of our products to In January 1998, we sold our electrolytic manganese dioxide customers, users of our products and other interested parties.
As part of the transaction we issued a guarantee to the benefit of the purchaser, Delta Electrical The EU environmental risk assessment is scheduled for completion Industries Ltd, covering some of our obligations under the sale in 2007 and we continue to assess its potential impact on our agreement.
The transaction was an asset sale and the guarantee is operations.
not limited in amount but is limited in duration.
Our guarantee to We are conducting life cycle assessments of our products to Delta Electrical Industries Ltd expires on 28 December 2027.
Our understand the potential impacts from their manufacture and use.
obligations under the guarantee relate to any prior contamination This study will continue as we develop a strategy around reduction of the ground both at the former facility site and Kooragang Island of these potential impacts.
at Newcastle, the former waste disposal site.
We built our facility BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 47 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 48 2.
Information on the Company continued Decommissioning, site rehabilitation and environmental costs amounts in relation to Pinal Creek litigation, total US$734 million at 30 June 2006 US$731 million at 30 June 2005.
Our operations are subject to various national, regional, and local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment.
In relation to Pinal Creek, BHP Copper Inc BHP Copper is involved Furthermore, we have a policy of ensuring that rehabilitation is in litigation concerning groundwater contamination resulting from planned and financed from the early stages of any operation.
historic mining operations near the Pinal Creek Miami Wash area Provision is made for the rehabilitation of our mining and located in the State of Arizona.
processing facilities along with the decommissioning of oil In 1994, Roy Wilkes and Diane Dunn initiated a toxic tort class platforms and infrastructure associated with petroleum activities.
action lawsuit in the Federal District Court for the District of The estimation of the cost of future rehabilitation and Arizona.
In September 2000, the Court approved a settlement decommissioning activities is subject to uncertainties.
These reached between the parties for a non-material amount, and the uncertainties include the legal and regulatory framework, the terms of the settlement are now being implemented as a magnitude of possible contamination and the timing and extent of monitoring program.
rehabilitation and decommissioning activities required.
Whilst the provisions at 30 June 2006 represent the best estimate of the future A State consent decree the Decree was approved by the Federal costs required, these uncertainties might result in future actual District Court for the District of Arizona in August 1998.
The Decree expenditure differing from the amounts provided at this time.
authorises and requires groundwater remediation and facilityspecific source control activities, and the members of the Pinal These rehabilitation and decommissioning expenditures are mostly Creek Group which consists of BHP Copper, Phelps Dodge Miami expected to be paid over the next 30 years.
The provisions for Inc and Inspiration Consolidated Copper Co are jointly liable for rehabilitation and decommissioning are derived by discounting the performing the non-facility specific source control activities.
Such expected expenditures to their net present value.
The estimated activities are currently ongoing.
As of 30 June 2006, we have total site rehabilitation cost undiscounted and in todays dollars provided US$118 million 30 June 2005: US$110 million for our to be incurred in the future arising from operations to date, and anticipated share of the planned remediation work based on a including amounts already provided for, is US$6,939 million range reasonably foreseeable up to US$138 million 30 June 2005: 2005: US$6,284 million.
US$138 million, and we have paid out US$53 million up to 30 June At 30 June 2006, we had provided US$2,839 million 2005: 2006.
These amounts are based on the provisional equal allocation US$2,509 million for reclamation and decommissioning costs of these costs among the three members of the Pinal Creek Group.
relating to operating sites in the provision for site rehabilitation.
BHP Copper is seeking a judicial restatement of the allocation In addition, we have certain obligations associated with formula to reduce its share based upon its belief, supported by maintaining and or remediating closed sites.
At 30 June 2006, relevant external legal and technical advice, that its property has US$1,273 million 2005: US$1,162 million was provided for closed contributed a smaller share of the contamination than the other sites.
The amounts provided in relation to closed sites are reviewed parties properties.
BHP Copper is contingently liable for the whole at least annually based upon the facts and circumstances available of these costs in the event that the other parties are unable to pay.
at the time and the provisions are updated accordingly.
BHP Copper and the other members of the Pinal Creek Group Adjustments to the provisions in relation to these closed sites are filed a contribution action in November 1991 in the Federal District recognised in profit and loss during the period in which the Court for the District of Arizona against former owners and adjustments are made.
In addition to the uncertainties associated operators of the properties alleged to have caused the with closure activity noted above, uncertainty remains over the contamination.
As part of this action, BHP Copper is seeking extent and costs of the required short-term closure activities, the contribution from its predecessors in interest with respect to extent, cost and timing of post-closure monitoring and, in some BHP Coppers ultimate allocated share of costs based upon such cases, longer-term water management.
Also, certain closure predecessors proportionate contributions to the total activities are subject to legal dispute and depending on the contamination in the Pinal Creek drainage basin.
Such action seeks ultimate resolution of these matters, the final liability could vary.
recovery from these historical owners and operators for We believe that it is reasonably possible that, due to the nature remediation and source control costs.
BHP Coppers predecessors of the closed site liabilities and the degree of uncertainty that have asserted a counterclaim in this action seeking indemnity from surrounds them, these liabilities could be in the order of 25 per BHP Copper based upon their interpretation of the historical cent 2005: 30 per cent greater or in the order of 20 per cent transaction documents relating to the succession in interest of the lower 2005: 20 per cent than the US$1,273 million provided at parties.
BHP Copper has also filed suit against a number of year end.
The main closed site to which this total amount relates is insurance carriers seeking to recover under various insurance Southwest Copper in the US and this is described in further detail policies for remediation, response, source control and other costs below, together with a brief description of other closed sites.
noted above incurred by BHP Copper.
Southwest Copper, Arizona, United States Other closed sites The Southwest Copper operations comprised several mining and The closure provisions for other closed sites total US$539 million at smelting operations and associated facilities, much of which had 30 June 2006 2005: US$431 million.
The key sites covered by this been operating for many years prior to the Group acquiring the amount are described briefly below.
In 1999, the facilities were effectively placed on a care and maintenance basis, pending evaluation of various Newcastle Steelworks Australia we closed our Newcastle alternative strategies to realise maximum value from the Steelworks in 1999 and retain responsibility for certain sediment in respective assets.
We announced the closure of the San Manuel the Hunter River adjacent to the former steelworks site, together mining facilities and the San Manuel plant facilities in 2002 and with certain other site remediation activities in the Newcastle area.
Base Metals has ongoing responsibility for the post-closure A comprehensive review of closure plans conducted at the monitoring and maintenance of the Island Copper and Selbaie Southwest Copper facilities in 2003-04 indicated: a higher shortcopper mines Canada, and the long-term remediation costs for term closure costs due to changes in the nature of closure work various mines and processing facilities in Canada and the US required in relation to certain facilities, particularly tailings dams operated by Rio Algom Ltd prior to its acquisition by the former and waste and leach dumps: b a need for costs, such as water Billiton Plc in October 2000.
In addition, closure and reclamation management and environmental monitoring, to continue for a measures are being implemented at the former Carson Hill gold longer period: and, c an increase in the residual value of certain mine in California US, an obligation resulting from the WMC assets.
The closure provisions for Southwest Copper, including acquisition in 2005.
48 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 49 Ingwe Collieries South Africa we have responsibility for site Our human resources strategy emphasises a relationship with our reclamation and remediation activities, including the long-term employees that is based on shared accountability for achieving management of water leaving mining properties, for closed mines business and personal success.
Our strategy supports the within the Ingwe operations.
development of a high performance work culture and the values and business principles of our Charter our Charter is a statement Roane Alloys US we ceased operations at Roane Alloys in 1982. that outlines the Groups purpose, values and overall mission.
A final remedial design for rehabilitation of the site has been submitted to the State of Tennessee for approval.
We are currently Our remuneration system places greater focus on at risk in divestiture negotiations with a company that will rehabilitate to performance-based pay for our senior and executive management.
At our business units our remuneration system is being translated to apply to employees at other levels in the Company as appropriate.
Krugersdorp Manganese Metal Plant South Africa we Our succession planning and talent management processes focus on suspended electrolytic manganese operations at our Krugersdorp attracting and retaining current and future world-class talent.
Our Plant in February 2006, pending a decision on its future by the relationship with labour focuses on win-win relationships and a MMC Board.
high-performance organisation being created by continuous DMS Powders South Africa we sold this operation, which is workplace reform in all of our businesses.
We believe that generally located on our Meyerton Industrial site, in March 2006 to the our relations with our employees and labour unions representing our Siyanda Inkwali Company.
We retain remediation and rehabilitation employees are good.
However, we have experienced some industrial liabilities for the land on which the plant is located.
action during and immediately post 2005-06.
Boodarie Iron Australia in August 2005 we announced the In 7 April 2006, the union representing 375 of the total 2,000 permanent closure of the hot briquetted iron production facilities employees at EKATI made contract proposals that, if accepted, at our wholly-owned Boodarie Iron plant.
Work has been completed would have conflicted with EKATIs responsibilities with the to define the site closure requirements and mitigate the costs Aboriginal Community and Northwest Territory.
After we rejected associated with the gas and power take-or-pay contracts.
the union proposals, the union called for strike action and 137 of Demolition work is expected to commence in October 2006, with the bargaining unit employees were flown off-site.
An agreement planned completion in June 2008.
Site rehabilitation work will to end the strike was ratified on 30 June 2006.
employees were rostered back in mid July to ensure a smooth transition into their shifts.
Employees In 7 August 2006, the union representing 2,052 workers of the During the year ended 30 June 2006, we employed, on average, total 2,930 workforce at Escondida initiated a legal strike within 33,184 employees.
A significant proportion of these employees, the framework of the collective negotiation process.
Despite the approximately 42.3 per cent, were employed in our Australianongoing collective bargaining, we suspended operations as the based operations and approximately 29.8 per cent in southern health and safety of the people who work in the Company and the Africa.
Our operations in North and South America account for the integrity of the facilities could not be guaranteed.
An agreement majority of our remaining employees.
Due to the transition to IFRS, was reached on 31 August 2006 that ended the strike.
we no longer proportionately consolidate our interest in certain jointly controlled entities, including Escondida.
As a result, we no The table below provides a breakdown of our average number of longer include employees of those entities in our employee figures.
employees by category of activity for the past three financial years.
Employee numbers for 2005 have been restated on an equivalent basis.
At 30 June At 30 June At 30 June 1 1 Industry 2006 2005 2004 Petroleum 2,180 1,998 1,901 Aluminium 4,259 4,453 5,590 Base Metals 4,360 2,499 3,414 Carbon Steel Materials 7,769 7,215 6,812 Diamond and Specialty Products 1,189 1,254 1,203 Energy Coal 7,819 9,333 9,138 Stainless Steel Materials 2,927 5,534 5,318 Group and unallocated 2,681 1,915 1,694 Total 33,184 34,201 35,070 The table below provides a breakdown of our average number of employees by geographic location for the past three financial years.
At 30 June At 30 June At 30 June 1 1 Geography 2006 2005 2004 Australia 14,036 10,689 9,776 North America 2,565 2,587 2,642 South America 4,902 4,031 5,657 Europe 589 621 611 Southern Africa 9,899 15,747 15,928 Other countries 1,193 526 456 Total 33,184 34,201 35,070 1 Due to the transition to IFRS, we no longer proportionately consolidate our interest in certain jointly controlled entities, including Escondida.
As a result, we no longer include 2,791 2005: 2,737 employees of those entities in our employee figures.
Information on the Company continued Organisational structure Equalisation of economic and voting rights General BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc shareholders have economic and voting interests in the combined BHP Billiton The BHP Billiton Group consists of the BHP Billiton Limited Group Group.
The economic and voting interests represented by a share and the BHP Billiton Plc Group as a combined enterprise following in one Company relative to the economic and voting interests of a the completion of the DLC merger in June 2001.
Refer to note 37 share in the other Company is determined by reference to a ratio Subsidiaries in the financial statements for a list of BHP Billiton known as the Equalisation Ratio.
Presently, the economic and Limited and BHP Billiton Plc significant subsidiaries.
voting interests attached to each BHP Billiton Limited share and each BHP Billiton Plc share are the same, since the Equalisation DLC structure Ratio is 1:1.
The Equalisation Ratio would change if either BHP On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Limited then known as BHP Limited Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc returned value to only its and BHP Billiton Plc then known as Billiton Plc merged by way of shareholders and no matching action was taken.
a Dual Listed Companies structure, or DLC.
To effect the DLC, BHP Limited and Billiton Plc entered into certain contractual This means that the amount of any cash dividend paid by BHP arrangements that are designed to place the shareholders of both Billiton Limited in respect of each BHP Billiton Limited share is Companies in a position where they effectively have an interest in normally matched by an equivalent cash dividend by BHP Billiton a single group that combines the assets, and is subject to all the Plc in respect of each BHP Billiton Plc share, and vice versa.
If one liabilities, of both Companies.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Company has insufficient profits or is otherwise unable to pay the Plc have each retained their separate corporate identities and agreed dividend, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will, as maintained their separate stock exchange listings, but they are far as practicable, enter into such transactions as are necessary so operated and managed as if they are a single unified entity, with as to enable both Companies to pay the amount of pre-tax their Boards and senior executive management comprising the dividends per share.
Under the terms of the DLC agreements the BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc entered into various Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association special agreements to effect the DLC, including the: voting arrangements have been implemented so that the shareholders of both Companies vote together as a single Sharing Agreement decision-making body on matters affecting the shareholders of Special Voting Shares Deed each Company in similar ways such matters are referred to as BHP Deed Poll Guarantee Joint Electorate Actions.
For so long as the Equalisation Ratio Billiton Deed Poll Guarantee.
remains 1:1, each BHP Billiton Limited share will effectively have In addition, BHP Billiton Limited adopted a new corporate the same voting rights as each BHP Billiton Plc share on Joint Constitution and BHP Billiton Plc adopted a new Memorandum and Electorate Actions.
In the case of certain actions in relation to which the two bodies of The principles embodied in the Sharing Agreement are that: shareholders may have divergent interests referred to as Class Rights Actions, the Company wishing to carry out the Class Rights the two companies are to operate as if they were a single unified Action requires the prior approval of the shareholders in the other economic entity, through Boards of Directors that comprise the Company voting separately and, where appropriate, the approval same individuals and a unified senior executive management of its own shareholders voting separately.
the Directors of the two companies will, in addition to their duties to the Company concerned, have regard to the interests These voting arrangements are secured through the constitutional of holders of shares in BHP Billiton Limited and holders of shares documents of the two Companies, the Sharing Agreement, the in BHP Billiton Plc as if the two companies were a single unified Special Voting Shares Deed and rights attaching to a specially economic entity and, for that purpose, the Directors of each created Special Voting Share issued by each Company and held in Company shall take into account in the exercise of their powers each case by a Special Voting Company.
The shares in the Special the interests of the shareholders of the other Voting Companies are held legally and beneficially by Law the DLC equalisation principles must be observed.
Australian Foreign Investment Review Board FIRB conditions Cross guarantees The Treasurer of Australia approved the DLC merger subject to BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each executed a certain conditions, the effect of which was to require that Deed Poll Guarantee, pursuant to which creditors entitled to the BHP Billiton Limited continues to: benefit of the Deed Poll Guarantees will, to the extent possible, be placed in the same position as if the relevant debts were owed by be an Australian company, which is managed from Australia and both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc combined.
ultimately manage and control the companies conducting the business that was conducted by it at the time of the merger, for Restrictions on takeovers of one Company only as long as those businesses form part of the BHP Billiton Group.
The BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc The conditions have effect indefinitely subject to amendment of Articles of Association have been drafted to ensure that a person the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 Commonwealth cannot gain control of one Company without having made an Takeovers Act or any revocation or amendment by the Treasurer.
equivalent offer to the shareholders of both Companies on If BHP Billiton Limited wishes to act differently to the conditions, it equivalent terms.
Sanctions for breach of these provisions would must obtain the prior approval of the Treasurer.
Failure to comply include withholding of dividends, voting restrictions and the with the conditions attracts substantial penalties under the Act.
compulsory divestment of shares to the extent a shareholder and its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
50 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 51 Petroleum reserves Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of crude upward or downward, based on new information such as from oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that geological and development drilling and production activities or from changes in engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be economic factors, including product prices, contract terms or recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing development plans.
In certain deepwater Gulf of Mexico fields, economic and operating conditions i. e. prices and costs as of the proved reserves have been determined before production flow tests date the estimate is made.
Proved developed oil and gas reserves are conducted, in part because of the significant safety, cost and are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing environmental implications of conducting those tests.
In these fields wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
other industry-accepted technologies have been used that are considered to provide reasonably certain estimates of productivity.
Estimates of oil and gas reserves are inherently imprecise, require the application of judgement and are subject to future revision.
The tables below detail estimated oil, condensate, LPG and gas Accordingly, financial and accounting measures such as the reserves at 30 June 2006, 30 June 2005 and 30 June 2004, with a standardised measure of discounted cash flows, depreciation, reconciliation of the changes in each year.
Reserves have been depletion and amortisation charges, the assessment of calculated using the economic interest method and represent our impairments and the assessment of valuation allowances against net interest volumes after deduction of applicable royalty, fuel and deferred tax assets that are based on reserve estimates are also flare volumes.
Our reserves include quantities of oil, condensate subject to change.
and LPG that will be produced under several production and risk Proved reserves are estimated by reference to available seismic, sharing arrangements that involve the BHP Billiton Group in well and reservoir information including production and pressure upstream risks and rewards without transfer of ownership of the trends for producing reservoirs and, in some cases, to similar data products.
At 30 June 2006, approximately 11 per cent 2005: from other producing reservoirs in the immediate area.
Proved 12 per cent: 2004: 17 per cent of proved developed and reserves estimates are attributed to future development projects undeveloped oil, condensate and LPG reserves and nil per cent only where there is a significant commitment to project funding and 2005: nil per cent: 2004: nil per cent of natural gas reserves are execution and for which applicable governmental and regulatory attributable to those arrangements.
Reserves also include volumes approvals have been secured or are reasonably certain to be calculated by probabilistic aggregation of certain fields that share secured.
Furthermore, estimates of proved reserves only include common infrastructure.
These aggregation procedures result in volumes for which access to market is assured with reasonable enterprise-wide proved reserves volumes, which may not be certainty.
All proved reserve estimates are subject to revision, either realised upon divestment on an individual property basis.
a Proved developed and undeveloped oil, condensate and LPG reserves Australia millions of barrels Asia Americas UK Middle East Total Reserves at 30 June 2003 326.6 152.0 113.4 592.0 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 20.2 2.6 9.5 8.1 Extensions and discoveries 0.4 11.0 1.1 12.5 Purchase sales of reserves 4.0 4.0 b Production 46.3 7.6 14.1 68.0 Total changes 25.7 3.2 22.5 51.4 Reserves at 30 June 2004 300.9 148.8 90.9 540.6 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 24.5 1.7 1.3 21.5 Extensions and discoveries 7.2 43.5 50.7 Purchase sales of reserves 9.2 9.2 b Production 38.7 7.6 14.7 61.0 Total changes 16.2 34.2 16.0 2.0 Reserves at 30 June 2005 284.7 183.0 74.9 542.6 Improved recovery 11.5 11.5 Revisions of previous estimates 52.4 0.6 2.6 50.4 Extensions and discoveries 2.6 2.6 Purchase sales of reserves 0.3 0.3 b Production 33.2 7.3 15.3 55.8 Total changes 19.2 7.1 17.9 8.4 c Reserves at 30 June 2006 303.9 190.1 57.0 551.0 a Proved developed oil, condensate and LPG reserves Reserves at 30 June 2003 227.8 9.9 24.5 262.2 Reserves at 30 June 2004 201.9 5.4 54.8 262.1 Reserves at 30 June 2005 180.5 18.3 74.5 273.3 Reserves at 30 June 2006 199.3 21.5 54.6 275.4 a In Bass Strait, the North West Shelf, Ohanet and the North Sea, LPG is extracted separately from crude oil and natural gas.
b Production for reserves reconciliation differs slightly from marketable production due to timing of sales and corrections to previous estimates.
c Total proved oil, condensate and LPG reserves include 13.9 million barrels derived from probabilistic aggregation procedures.
Information on the Company continued Proved developed and undeveloped natural gas reserves Australia UK a billions of cubic feet Asia Americas Middle East Total Reserves at 30 June 2003 4,904.6 147.3 419.0 5,470.9 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 114.6 2.2 10.0 106.8 Extensions and discoveries 51.6 4.6 56.2 Purchases sales of reserves 32.8 32.8 b Production 222.9 20.5 77.0 320.4 Total changes 56.7 46.5 87.0 190.2 Reserves at 30 June 2004 4,847.9 100.8 332.0 5,280.7 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 237.3 3.1 29.9 210.5 Extensions and discoveries 177.0 27.6 204.6 Purchases sales of reserves 165.8 165.8 b Production 275.7 14.6 57.6 347.9 Total changes 27.2 16.1 87.5 98.6 Reserves at 30 June 2005 4,820.7 116.9 244.5 5,182.1 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 4.0 6.5 34.7 45.2 Extensions and discoveries 1.3 1.3 Purchases sales of reserves 0.2 0.2 b Production 292.0 8.0 61.1 361.1 Total changes 288.0 0.4 26.4 314.8 c Reserves at 30 June 2006 4,532.7 116.5 218.1 4,867.3 Proved developed natural gas reserves Reserves at 30 June 2003 2,560.4 64.8 397.1 3,022.3 Reserves at 30 June 2004 2,539.7 20.1 310.0 2,869.8 Reserves at 30 June 2005 2,621.4 15.1 239.3 2,875.8 Reserves at 30 June 2006 2,286.4 16.5 206.4 2,509.3 a Production for Australia includes gas sold as LNG and as liquefied ethane.
c Total proved natural gas reserves include 195.8 billion cubic feet derived from probabilistic aggregation procedures.
52 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 53 Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves Introduction activity they are undertaking to qualify as a Competent Person as defined by the JORC Code.
At the reporting date, each Competent The statement of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves presented in Person listed in this Report is a full-time employee of BHP Billiton this Report has been produced in accordance with the Australasian or a company in which BHP Billiton has a controlling interest unless Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, otherwise noted.
Each Competent Person consents to the inclusion December 2004 the JORC Code.
Commodity prices and exchange in this Report of the matters based on their information in the form rates used to estimate the economic viability of reserves are based and context in which it appears.
on September 2005 BHP Billiton long-term forecasts unless otherwise stated.
The Ore Reserves tabulated are all held within All of the Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve figures presented are existing, fully permitted mining tenements.
The BHP Billiton reported in 100 per cent terms and represent estimates at 30 June Groups mineral leases are of sufficient duration or convey a legal 2006 unless otherwise stated.
All tonnes and grade information right to renew for sufficient duration to enable all reserves on the has been rounded, hence small differences may be present in the leased properties to be mined in accordance with current totals.
All of the Mineral Resource information unless otherwise production schedules.
The information in this Report relating to stated is inclusive of Mineral Resources that have been converted Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves is based on information to Ore Reserves i. e. Mineral Resources are not additional to Ore compiled by Competent Persons as defined in the JORC Code.
The information contained herein differs in certain Competent Persons for deposits located outside Australia may be respects from that reported to the US Securities and Exchange members of Recognised Overseas Professional Organisations Commission SEC, which is prepared with reference to the SECs ROPOs as recognised by the ASX.
All Competent Persons have, at Industry Guide 7.
BHP Billitons US GAAP disclosures reflect the the time of reporting, sufficient experience relevant to the style of information reported to the SEC.
Mineral Resources and Ore mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the Reserves are presented in the accompanying tables.
Information on the Company continued Aluminium Customer Sector Group Mineral Resources The table below deals with the total inclusive Mineral Resources for the Aluminium Customer Sector Group as at 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
Measured Resource Indicated Resource Millions of Millions of Commodity dry metric dry metric 1 2 Deposit Ore Type tonnes %A.
SiO 2 3 2 2 3 2 Australia Worsley Laterite 446 30.5 1.9 182 31.6 2.6 Brazil 3 4 MRN MRN Crude 111 59 4 MRN Washed 82 50.8 3.8 45 51.7 2.9 Millions of Millions of dry metric dry metric tonnes %Al O %R.
SiO %Fe O 2 3 2 2 3 2 3 2 2 3 5 Suriname Coermotibo Laterite 2 50.1 4.7 15.0 2 51.0 4.7 13.8 6 Onverdacht Laterite 17 55.5 4.7 8.8 17 58.0 5.4 2.3 1 Competent Persons Resources Worsley: D Parmenter MAIG MRN Minerao Rio do Norte : J P C fide Melo Franco MAusIMM employed by Minerao Rio do Norte SA Coermotibo and Onverdacht: D L Butty EFG employed by Butty, Henrinckx and Partners 2 A. Al2O is available alumina determined for Worsley and MRN refinery conditions.
For Coermotibo and Onverdacht, total alumina content is quoted Al O.
3 2 3 R. SiO2 is silica that is reactive in the refinery process.
2 3 3 MRN has an active exploration program evaluating Inferred Resources within the lease area to increase the Measured and Indicated Resource tonnages by 2013.
4 MRN Crude is mined product feed to the wash plant tonnes.
MRN Washed tonnes and grade represent expected product based on forecast beneficiated yield of 70%.
Ore Reserves The table below deals with the total Ore Reserves of the Aluminium Customer Sector Group as at 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve Millions of Millions of Commodity dry metric dry metric 1 2 3 4 Deposit Ore Type tonnes %A.
SiO %Fe O 2 3 2 2 3 2 3 2 2 3 Australia Worsley Laterite 284 30.9 1.7 22 30.1 1.8 Brazil 5 MRN MRN Washed 82 50.8 3.8 Suriname Coermotibo Laterite 1 45.6 3.2 15.6 0.5 40.1 3.3 20.6 6 Onverdacht Laterite 16 48.9 4.5 8.8 0.2 46.5 5.6 10.1 1 Approximate drill hole spacing used to classify the reserve is: Deposit Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve Worsley Maximum 100m Maximum 200m MRN A maximum bauxite intersection grid of 200m.
Mining and Those plateaux with a bauxite intersection grid spacing metallurgical characterisation test pit bulk sample, plus a of less than 400m and or a 400m spaced grid with a reliable suite of chemical and size distribution data 200m offset fill in, plus a reliable suite of chemical and size distribution data Coermotibo 61m x 61m 122m x 122m Onverdacht 61m x 61m 122m x 122m 54 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 55 Inferred Resource Total Resource Millions of Millions of BHP Billiton dry metric dry metric Interest tonnes %A.
6 Onverdacht includes the Lelydorp III current mining operation, Kaaimangrasie and Klaverblad, which are currently being developed, and Para North and Kankantrie North.
The standard cut-off grade COG stands at 15% SiO, except for Para North and Kankantrie North for which a COG of 10% SiO is applied, 2 2 and Kaaimangrasie for which COGs of 15% SiO and 30% Fe O are applied.
2 2 3 Total Ore Reserve Millions of Mine life BHP Billiton dry metric based on Reserve Interest tonnes %A.
SiO %Fe O years % 2 3 2 2 3 306 30.8 1.7 24 86 82 50.8 3.8 5 14.8 2 44.1 3.2 17 1 45 16 48.9 4.5 8.8 4 45 2 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are based on the relevant refinery: Deposit Estimated % metallurgical recovery A. Al O 2 3 Worsley Worsley Refinery 90 MRN Alumar Refinery 94 Coermotibo Paranam Refinery 93.5 Onverdacht Paranam Refinery 93.5 3 Competent Persons Reserves Worsley Worsley refinery : V Malajczuk MAusIMM MRN Alumar refinery : J P C fide Melo Franco MAusIMM employed by Minerao Rio do Norte SA Coermotibo and Onverdacht Paranam refinery : D L Butty EFG employed by Butty, Henrinckx and Partners 4 A. Al O is available alumina determined for expected refinery conditions.
R. SiO is silica that is reactive in the refinery process.
2 3 2 2 3 5 MRN Washed tonnes and grade represent expected product based on forecast beneficiated yield of 74%.
6 Onverdacht includes the Lelydorp III current mining operation, Kaaimangrasie and Klaverblad, which are currently being developed.
The Lelydorp III operation is expected to terminate as planned in 2007.
Information on the Company continued Base Metals Customer Sector Group Mineral Resources The table deals with the total inclusive Mineral Resources for the Base Metals Customer Segment Group as at 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
Measured Resource Indicated Resource Millions of Millions of Commodity dry metric dry metric 1 2 Deposit Ore Type tonnes %TCu %SCu tonnes %TCu %SCu Copper Escondida Oxide 69 0.67 15 0.55 Sulphide 556 1.18 987 0.97 Sulphide leach 635 0.51 1,435 0.48 Escondida Norte Oxide 5 1.20 20 1.14 Sulphide 149 1.55 330 1.33 Sulphide leach 70 0.61 702 0.57 3 Total Escondida Oxide 74 0.71 35 0.88 Sulphide 705 1.26 1,318 1.06 Sulphide leach 705 0.52 2,136 0.51 4 Cerro Colorado Oxide 70 0.69 0.54 123 0.68 0.50 Sulphide 26 0.85 0.15 70 0.71 0.12 5 Spence Oxide 33 1.50 0.96 44 1.04 0.66 ROM 3 0.25 25 0.24 Supergene sulphides 118 1.31 158 0.76 Transitional sulphides 12 0.81 25 0.49 6 Pinto Valley Sulphide 697 0.19 16 0.34 6 Pinto Valley Miami Unit In situ leach 174 0.32 40 0.32 Millions of kg Millions of kg dry metric tonne dry metric tonne tonnes %Cu U O g tAu g tAg tonnes %Cu U O g tAu g tAg 3 8 3 8 Copper Uranium 7 Olympic Dam Sulphide 680 1.5 0.5 0.5 3.1 1,360 1.1 0.4 0.4 2.4 Millions of Millions of dry metric dry metric tonnes %Cu %Zn g tAg %Mo tonnes %Cu %Zn g tAg %Mo Copper Zinc Sulphide Cu only 64 0.88 0.17 7.6 0.04 292 1.15 0.14 9.7 0.04 8 Antamina Sulphide Cu-Zn 37 0.91 2.58 18.9 0.01 99 1.11 2.77 19.0 0.01 Millions of Millions of dry metric dry metric tonnes g tAg %Pb %Zn tonnes g tAg %Pb %Zn Silver Lead Zinc 9 Cannington Sulphide 30 446 10.4 4.2 5 322 7.9 4.1 1 %TCu per cent total copper, %SCu per cent soluble copper, kg tonneU O kilograms per tonne uranium oxide, g tAu grams per tonne gold, 3 8 g tAg grams per tonne silver, %Zn per cent zinc, %Pb per cent lead, %Mo percent molybdenum.
2 Competent Persons Resources Escondida and Escondida Norte: J Camacho MAusIMM Cerro Colorado: E Fernndez MAIG Spence: M J Williams MAusIMM Pinto Valley and Pinto Valley Miami Unit: R K Preece FAusIMM Antamina: E Lipten FAusIMM employed by Minera Antamina SA Olympic Dam: S Hayward MAIG Cannington: A J Edwards MAusIMM, J Hill MAusIMM 3 Escondida: the Escondida and Escondida Norte mines are adjacent supergene-enriched porphyry copper deposits sharing common processing plants.
Beneficiation of the high-grade sulphide is through milling and flotation, while oxide and sulphide leach material are processed through leaching and SX-EW.
Changes in the resources of both deposits are due to the depletion of resources through copper production, updated geological model incorporating new data, new parameters for resources pit optimisation, and variable cut-off grade policy.
Part of the sulphide leach stockpile is classified as Inferred Resource due to uncertainty in tonnage, grade and metallurgical properties.
In future resource reports, the two mines will be combined into a single reportable resource.
For this years reporting both mines are reported with the combined total.
Economic and metallurgical studies are being conducted to evaluate optimal sulphide leach cut-off grades, which may lead to revision in resource tonnes.
4 Cerro Colorado: Cerro Colorado is an open-cut mine that lies within the oxidised and enriched portion of a porphyry copper deposit, with ore processed by leaching and SX-EW.
Changes from 2005 include depletion of production adjusted for reconciliation differences, and an updated model with new drilling data that resulted in improved confidence and a small decrease to the Total Resource.
A total of 26.8km of earlier drilling not previously included, plus 60.5km of new drilling within the first five years production volume, were incorporated in the evaluation.
The total drilling upon which the 2006 declaration is based is 220.6km.
ROM is run of mine low grade stockpile.
6 The Pinto Valley Operations consist of two units: the Pinto Valley Unit, consisting of an open-cut and mill complex that treats in-place porphyry copper sulphide mineralisation and a sulphide heap leach plus SX-EW, and the Miami Unit, that is an in situ leach plus SX-EW operation within the upper parts of an oxidised and enriched porphyry copper deposit.
Both units are currently on care and maintenance status, except that the SX-EW units are processing leach solutions that continue to be cycled through the leachable resources.
Materials contained in the Pinto Valley Unit leach stockpiles are included within the Measured Resources.
7 Olympic Dam: the Olympic Dam deposit is a breccia-hosted iron oxide copper gold Olympic Dam-type deposit.
June 2006 resource estimation was completed using existing resource modelling processes ID3 and incorporates BHP Billiton metal price and exchange rate assumptions.
Substantial drilling was incorporated in the southern mine area and selected areas adjacent to current mine operations.
Resource classification incorporated consideration of confidence in the underpinning geology model, and retained existing drill spacing protocols.
This has resulted in reclassification as Inferred, part of the material that was previously classified as Indicated in the southern mine area.
Resource estimation and reporting practices are under review.
8 Antamina: Antamina is a polymetallic skarn formed by the emplacement of an igneous rock into limestone wallrocks.
Resources are reported on the basis of the 2005 estimate, depleted by production.
A slight decrease in the Inferred Resource is due to the application of a higher cut-off grade only within the Inferred material.
9 Cannington: ongoing underground diamond drilling and geological interpretation have resulted in local changes.
There has been a steady promotion of material into the Measured category.
Changes in metal prices and exchange rates have resulted in an adjustment to tonnes and grades above the stated cut-off of A$60.
Information on the Company continued Base Metals Customer Sector Group continued Ore Reserves The table deals with the total Ore Reserves for the Base Metals Customer Segment Group as a 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve Millions of Millions of Commodity dry metric dry metric 1 2 3 4 Deposit Ore Type tonnes %TCu %SCu tonnes %TCu %SCu Copper Escondida Oxide 69 0.74 0.67 15 0.77 0.55 Sulphide 555 1.18 846 1.00 Sulphide leach 592 0.51 994 0.51 Escondida Norte Oxide 5 1.55 1.20 20 1.47 1.14 Sulphide 149 1.55 321 1.34 Sulphide leach 59 0.55 549 0.61 5 Total Escondida Oxide 74 0.79 0.71 35 1.17 0.88 Sulphide 704 1.26 1,167 1.09 Sulphide leach 651 0.51 1,543 0.55 6 Cerro Colorado Oxide 66 0.70 0.55 60 0.76 0.56 Sulphide 19 0.91 0.16 29 0.76 0.13 7 Spence Oxide 33 1.47 0.94 41 1.05 0.66 Supergene sulphides 110 1.31 128 0.78 Millions of kg Millions of kg dry metric tonne dry metric tonne tonnes %Cu U O g tAu g tAg tonnes %Cu U O g tAu g tAg 3 8 3 8 Copper Uranium 8 Olympic Dam Sulphide 65 2.0 0.7 0.6 4.6 309 2.1 0.7 0.8 4.5 Millions of Millions of dry metric dry metric tonnes %Cu %Zn g tAg %Mo tonnes %Cu %Zn g tAg %Mo Copper Zinc 9 Antamina Sulphide Cu only 38 1.17 0.2 9.7 0.04 268 1.21 0.15 10.1 0.04 Sulphide Cu-Zn 28 1.04 3.08 21.4 0.01 95 1.14 2.83 19.3 0.01 Millions of Millions of dry metric dry metric tonnes g tAg %Pb %Zn tonnes g tAg %Pb %Zn 8 Silver Lead Zinc 10 Cannington Sulphide 18 467 10.6 3.9 2 344 8.3 4.3 1 %TCu per cent total copper, %SCu per cent soluble copper, kg tonne U O kilograms per tonne uranium oxide, g tAu grams per tonne gold, 3 8 g tAg grams per tonne silver, %Zn per cent zinc, %Pb per cent lead, %Mo per cent molybdenum 2 Approximate drill hole spacing used to classify the reserve is: Deposit Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve Escondida Sulphide: 60m x 60m Sulphide: 100m x 100m Sulphide leach: 60m x 60m Sulphide leach: 105m x 105m Oxide: 45m x 45m Oxide: 50m x 50m Escondida Norte Sulphide: 60m x 60m Sulphide: 100m x 100m Sulphide leach: 60m x 60m Sulphide leach: 110m x 110m Oxide: 45m x 45m Oxide: 50m x 50m Cerro Colorado 70m x 70m, estimation on first kriging pass 140m x 140m, estimation on second kriging pass Spence Combined kriging pass, geological continuity, drilling density Combined kriging pass, geological continuity, drilling considerations equate to approximately 50m square grid for density considerations equate to approximately oxide and 75m square grid for sulphides 100m square grid for both oxides and sulphides Olympic Dam Less than 40m x 40m Less than 80m x 80m Antamina High-grade Cu Zn: 3 composites of the same grade zone 3 composites of the same grade zone and different holes and different holes within 30m, closest within 20m: within 55m, closest within 40m or 2 composites of the Low-grade Cu Zn: 3 composites of the same grade zone same grade zone and different holes within 65m, closest and different holes within 35m, closest within 25m within 30m or at least 50 composites within 75m with at least 90% in the same grade zone as the block Cannington 12.5m sectional x 15m vertical 25m sectional x 25m vertical 4 Competent Persons Reserves sulphide leach.
In future reserve reports, the two mines will be combined Escondida and Escondida Norte: P Fehlandt MAusIMM : Cerro Colorado: into a single reportable reserve.
For this years reporting both mines are C Apeleo MAusIMM : Spence: E Ros MAusIMM : Olympic Dam: D Vink reported with the combined total.
Economic and metallurgical studies are MAusIMM : Antamina: D Gurtler MAusIMM employed by Minera being conducted to evaluate optimal sulphide leach cut-off grades, which Antamina SA : Cannington: F F Muller MAusIMM may lead to a revision in the reserve.
5 6 Escondida: changes in the Escondida and Escondida Norte reserves from Cerro Colorado: other than depletion through production, there were 2005 include the updated resource estimate, updated cost and price insignificant changes in reserves since 2005.
An updated life of asset LOA estimates, full valuation of sulphide leach ore in ultimate pit limits, and plan was performed in 2005-06.
The reserve estimate was updated during variable cut-off grade of sulphide mill ore. Oxide ore scheduled for mining the year for the new resource estimate and revised economic and technical after closure of oxide leach plant has been reclassified and reported as factors that resulted only in local changes to the mine plan.
58 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 59 Total Ore Reserve Millions of Mine life BHP Billiton dry metric based on Reserve Interest tonnes %TCu %SCu years % 85 0.75 0.65 1,401 1.07 1,586 0.51 25 1.49 1.
1 5 470 1.41 608 0.60 109 0.92 0.76 28 57.5 1,872 1.16 2,194 0.53 126 0.73 0.56 10 100 49 0.82 0.14 75 1.24 0.79 18 100 238 1.03 Millions of kg dry metric tonne tonnes %Cu U O g tAu g tAg 3 8 374 2.1 0.7 0.8 4.5 34 100 Millions of dry metric tonnes %Cu %Zn g tAg %Mo 306 1.21 0.16 10.1 0.04 14 33.75 123 1.11 2.89 19.8 0.01 Millions of dry metric tonnes g tAg %Pb %Zn 20 455 10.4 3.9 6 100 3 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are: Metallurgical Recovery Deposit Cu Ag Pb Zn Au U O 3 8 Escondida Sulphide: 85% of TCu Sulphide leach: 34% of TCu Oxide: 75% of TCu Escondida Norte Sulphide: 85% of TCu Sulphide leach: 34% of TCu Oxide: 75% of TCu Cerro Colorado 78% Spence 81% 82% Olympic Dam 93% 60% 67% 71% Antamina Sulphide Cu: 92% Sulphide Cu: 60% Sulphide Cu: 0% Sulphide Cu-Zn: 81% Sulphide Cu-Zn: 32% Sulphide Cu-Zn: 71% Cannington 87% 89% 73% 7 Spence: a small decrease in reserves with respect to June 2005 is largely due included in last years Report.
These lower grade areas in the northern mine, to changes in the revised Mineral Resource estimate.
Economic and together with the total southern mine area resource, are the subject of technical parameters were also upgraded for mine planning, but have not feasibility studies.
On completion of these studies, which include both openresulted in significant changes to the ore reserves.
ROM material declared as cut and underground sub-level and block caving methods, the reserves will Measured and Indicated Resources was not converted to reserve due to a be restated.
Currently, drilling is continuing at Olympic Dam to define the large uncertainty in the modifying factors.
Metallurgical test work is being extent of mineralisation.
9 planned to better this understanding, which may be incorporated with Antamina: in-pit material for reserve reporting purposes was defined operating experience to declare ROM reserves in the future.
between the 31 May 2006 month-end pit surface topography and the Pit 18 8 Olympic Dam was acquired through the purchase of WMC Resources Ltd on ultimate pit design based upon mid-benches and further depleted by the 3 June 2005.
The Olympic Dam Ore Reserves reported above show a estimated production for June 2006.
Increased tonnage resulting from decrease from that reported in June 2005, albeit this year at a slightly higher lowering the ore cut-off grade was offset by the removal of low-grade grade.
The June 2006 reserve is based on a revised life-of-mine plan, stockpiles from the reserves.
Studies are in progress to enable better developed in the first half of calendar 2006 that includes only the mining of understanding of the metallurgical performance of these ores.
10 underground stopes by current methods.
It does not include mining of lower Cannington: changes to reserves mainly due to promotion of resource grade areas by sub-level cave or other alternative underground methods as classification from continued drilling and higher metal prices.
Information on the Company continued Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group Iron Ore Mineral Resources The table below deals with the total inclusive Iron Ore Mineral Resources for the Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group as at 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
The bedded ore types are classified as per the Hashimoto 1 and 2 deposits at Jimblebar in which the Wheelarra Joint host Archaean or Proterozoic banded iron formations.
These are BKM Venture participants BHP Iron Ore Jimblebar Pty Ltd 51%, ITOCHU Brockman, MM Marra Mamba and NIM Nimingarra.
The CID Channel Minerals and Energy of Australia Pty Ltd 4.8%, Mitsui Iron Ore Corporation Iron Deposits are Cainozoic fluvial sediments.
Pty Ltd 4.2% and subsidiaries of Chinese steelmakers Magang, Shagang, 2 The resource grades listed, Fe iron, P phosphorous, SiO silica, Al O Tanggang and Wugang 10% each have a legal interest.
At the 2 2 3 alumina refer to in situ mass percentage on a dry weight basis, except %Pc, commencement of the Wheelarra Joint Venture on 1 October 2005, the which represents phosphorous in concentrate.
LOI loss on ignition Wheelarra Joint Venture participants had a legal interest in 175 million dry tonnages are based on wet tonnes for the Western Australian Iron Ore metric tonnes of Jimblebar Reserves Wheelarra Joint Venture tonnes.
WAIO deposits on the following moisture contents: BKM is 3%, MM is 4%, The effect of the sales contracts entered into between the Wheelarra Joint CID is 8%, NIM is 3.5%.
Venture participants and the Mt Newman Joint Venture participants and 3 Changes in WAIO resources compared to 2005 are due to mining depletion, other associated agreements is that BHP Billiton as a Mt Newman Joint new models and reclassification for the Mt Newman JV Whaleback deposit Venture participant has an entitlement to 85% of these Wheelarra Joint and the Yandi Western 4 deposit.
This disclosure and the financial statements are prepared on 4 Competent Persons: Resources this basis.
6 Mt Newman JV: H Arvidson MAusIMM, I Tehnas MAusIMM The Area C Resources listed include C Deposit within Area C in which the Jimblebar: I Tehnas MAusIMM, H Arvidson MAusIMM POSMAC Joint Venture participants BHP Billiton Minerals Pty Ltd 65%, Mt Goldsworthy JV Northern: H Arvidson MAusIMM, I Tehnas MAusIMM ITOCHU Minerals and Energy of Australia Pty Ltd 8%, Mitsui Iron Ore Mt Goldsworthy JV Area C: H Arvidson MAusIMM, I Tehnas MAusIMM Corporation Pty Ltd 7% and a subsidiary of POSCO a Korean steelmaker Yandi JV: H Arvidson MAusIMM, I Tehnas MAusIMM 20% have a legal interest.
The effect of the sales contracts entered into BHP Billiton Minerals: I Tehnas MAusIMM between the POSMAC Joint Venture participants and the Mt Goldsworthy BHP Coal: I Tehnas MAusIMM Joint Venture participants and other associated agreements is that BHP Samarco JV: J E Tizon MAusIMM employed by Samarco Minerao SA Billiton as a Mt Goldsworthy Joint Venture participant has an entitlement to 85% of the resources in C Deposit.
The effect of the sales contracts entered into between the JW4 JV participants and the Yandi Joint Venture participants and other associated agreements is that BHP Billiton as a Yandi Joint Venture participant has an entitlement to 85% of the resources in the Western 4 deposit.
8 WAIO Resources include low-grade material that is currently stockpiled when mined, but have not been considered for conversion to reserves in the current 20-year business plan.
9 Cut-off grades used to estimate resources: Mt Newman 5062%Fe for BKM, 5460%Fe for MM: Jimblebar 5460%Fe for BKM, 54% for MM: Mt Goldsworthy 56.560%Fe for NIM, 5460%Fe for MM, 5460% for BKM: Yandi 56%Fe for CID, 54% for BKM: BHP Coal 5460%Fe for BKM, 5060%Fe for MM: BHP Minerals 54%Fe for BKM.
10 Samarco resources are estimated assuming external supply of approximately 10.2 million wet metric tonnes per annum of process feed from the nearby Fazendao mine, which is owned by CVRD, our 50% Joint Venture partner in Samarco.
Information on the Company continued Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group continued Iron Ore Ore Reserves The table below deals with the total inclusive Iron Ore Reserves for the Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group as at 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
%Pc represents phosphorous in concentrate for Samarco.
For Mt Newman, Jimblebar, Mt Goldsworthy and Yandi joint ventures tonnages represent wet tonnes based on the following moisture contents: BKM is 3%, MM is 4%, CID is 8%, NIM is 3.5%.
Iron ore is marketed as Lump direct blast furnace feed and Fines sinter plant feed.
Samarco is marketed predominantly as direct reduction and blast furnace pellets.
4 Competent Persons Reserves Mt Newman JV: R Pasyar MAusIMM, G Williamson MAusIMM Jimblebar: R Pasyar MAusIMM, G Williamson MAusIMM Mt Goldsworthy JV Northern: R Pasyar MAusIMM, G Williamson MAusIMM Mt Goldsworthy JV Area C: R Pasyar MAusIMM, G Williamson MAusIMM Yandi JV: R Pasyar MAusIMM, G Williamson MAusIMM Samarco JV: J E Tizon MAusIMM employed by Samarco Minerao SA 5 The reserves are divided into joint ventures and material types that reflect the various products produced.
The bedded ore types are classified as per the host Archaean or Proterozoic banded iron formations.
6 Ore types are BKM Brockman, MM Marra Mamba, NIM Nimingarra, CID Channel Iron Deposit, ROM run of mine iron ore. 7 Mining dilution and mining recovery in general around 95% have been taken into account in the estimation of reserves for all WAIO operations.
For Samarco, the mine recovery is 90.9% not included in the reserve estimate of the stated diluted reserve.
8 The following third party audits have been undertaken: Mt Newman JV Long-Term Mine Plan Audit, MineNet Consulting Mining Engineers 2004: Jimblebar Mine Planning Review, MineNet Consulting Mining Engineers, 2003: Yandi JV Life-of-Mine Audit, Australian Mining Consultants 2005: Mt Newman JV and Area C Life-of-Mine Audit, Australian Mining Consultants Pty Ltd 2006.
9 Changes to WAIO reserves compared to 2005 are due to mining depletion, new models and reclassification for the Mt Newman JV Whaleback deposit and the Yandi Western 4 deposit.
10 Cut-off grades used to estimate reserves: Mt Newman 5062%Fe for BKM, 60%Fe for MM: Jimblebar 5860%Fe for BKM: Mt Goldsworthy 58%Fe for NIM, 57%Fe for MM: Yandi 56%Fe for CID.
11 The Jimblebar Reserves listed include the Wheelarra Hill 3, 4, 5, 6 and Hashimoto 1 and 2 deposits at Jimblebar in which the Wheelarra Joint Venture participants BHP Iron Ore Jimblebar Pty Ltd 51%, ITOCHU Minerals and Energy of Australia Pty Ltd 4.8%, Mitsui Iron Ore Corporation Pty Ltd 4.2% and subsidiaries of Chinese steelmakers Magang, Shagang, Tanggang and Wugang 10% each have a legal interest.
At the commencement of the Wheelarra Joint Venture on 1 October 2005, the Wheelarra Joint Venture participants had a legal interest in 175 million dry metric tonnes of Jimblebar Reserves Wheelarra Joint Venture tonnes.
The effect of the sales contracts entered into between the Wheelarra Joint Venture participants and the Mt Newman Joint Venture participants and other associated agreements is that BHP Billiton as a Mt Newman Joint Venture participant has an entitlement to 85% of these Wheelarra Joint Venture tonnes.
12 The Area C Reserves listed include C Deposit within Area C in which the POSMAC Joint Venture participants BHP Billiton Minerals Pty Ltd 65%, ITOCHU Minerals and Energy of Australia Pty Ltd 8%, Mitsui Iron Ore Corporation Pty Ltd 7% and a subsidiary of POSCO a Korean steelmaker 20% have a legal interest.
The effect of the sales contracts entered into between the POSMAC Joint Venture participants and the Mt Goldsworthy Joint Venture participants and other associated agreements is that BHP Billiton as a Mt Goldsworthy Joint Venture participant has an entitlement to 85% of the reserves in C Deposit.
13 The Yandi Reserves listed include the Western 4 deposit in which the JFE Western 4 Joint Venture JW4 JV participants BHP Billiton Minerals Pty Ltd 65%, ITOCHU Minerals and Energy of Australia Pty Ltd 8%, Mitsui Iron Ore Corporation Pty Ltd 7% and a subsidiary of JFE Steel Corporation a Japanese steelmaker 20% have a legal interest.
The effect of the sales contracts entered into between the JW4 JV participants and the Yandi Joint Venture participants and other associated agreements is that BHP Billiton as a Yandi Joint Venture participant has an entitlement to 85% of the Reserves in the Western 4 deposit.
14 Samarco reserves are estimated assuming external supply of approximately 10.2 million wet metric tonnes per annum of process feed from the nearby Fazendao mine, which is owned by CVRD, our 50% Joint Venture partner in Samarco.
The external ore supply has a high proportion of specular hematite, a particular ore type that is required to produce the desired ore blend for producing iron pellets.
The absence of this external ore supply would significantly reduce Samarco reserves.
Information on the Company continued Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group continued Manganese Mineral Resources The tables below detail the total inclusive Manganese Mineral Resource for the Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group estimated as at 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
Measured Resource Indicated Resource Inferred Resource Total Resource Millions Millions Millions Millions BHP of dry of dry of dry of dry Billiton Commodity Ore metric metric metric metric Interest 1 Deposit Type tonnes %Mn %Yield tonnes %Mn %Yield tonnes %Mn %Yield tonnes %Mn %Yield % 2 GEMCO ROM 63 49.0 42 43 47.3 38 63 45.6 28 169 47.6 36 60 Millions Millions Millions Millions of dry %Mn of dry %Mn of dry %Mn of dry %Mn metric W1 metric W1 metric W1 metric W1 tonnes lump tonnes lump tonnes lump tonnes lump 3 Wessels ROM 5.0 48.1 20 48.0 25 48.0 60 Millions Millions Millions Millions of wet of wet of wet of wet metric metric metric metric tonnes %Mn %Fe tonnes %Mn %Fe tonnes %Mn %Fe tonnes %Mn %Fe 4 Mamatwan ROM 54 37.6 4.5 11 37.2 4.3 4.2 37.0 4.2 69 37.5 4.5 60 1 Competent Persons Resources GEMCO: E P W Swindell SACNASP Wessels: E P Ferreira SACNASP Mamatwan: O van Antwerpen SACNASP 2 GEMCO tonnage is in situ with manganese grades provided as washed ore samples, the wash yield should be applied to the in situ tonnage to provide an estimate of in situ washed product tonnes.
Washed product yield is estimated for each resource block.
3 Wessels is quoted as in situ tonnes and %Mn W1 lump Wessels main lump manganese product grade on a dry weight per cent basis.
4 Mamatwan is quoted as in situ tonnes: manganese %Mn and iron %Fe grade are quoted on a weight per cent dry basis.
64 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 65 Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group continued Manganese Ore Reserves The tables below detail the total inclusive Manganese Ore Reserves for the Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group estimated as at 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve Total Ore Reserve Millions Millions Millions Mine life BHP of dry of dry of dry based on Billiton Commodity Ore metric metric metric Reserve Interest 1 2 3 4 Deposit Type tonnes %Mn %Yield tonnes %Mn %Yield tonnes %Mn %Yield years % 5 GEMCO ROM 58 48.6 53 36 47.2 51 94 48.0 52 17 60 Millions Millions Millions of dry %Mn of dry %Mn of dry %Mn metric W1 metric W1 metric W1 tonnes lump tonnes lump tonnes lump 6 Wessels ROM 2.5 48.0 12 48.0 14 48.0 20 60 Millions Millions Millions of wet of wet of wet metric metric metric tonnes %Mn %Fe tonnes %Mn %Fe tonnes %Mn %Fe 7 Mamatwan ROM 44 37.6 4.5 6.7 37.2 4.3 50 37.6 4.6 18 60 1 Approximate drill hole spacing used to classify the reserve is: Deposit Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve GEMCO 60m x 120m and 60m x 60m 120m x 120m Wessels Defined as rim 30m wide around mined-out areas, plus 156m spaced surface drillholes, supplemented by some economically viable remnant blocks within mined-out areas.
underground drilling and sampling Underground chip sampling, limited underground boreholes and 156m spaced surface drillholes Mamatwan 80m x 80m 160m x 160m 2 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are: Deposit Metallurgical recovery Mn% GEMCO see % Yield in above table Wessels for W1 lump product 76 Mamatwan 98 3 Competent Persons Reserves GEMCO: E P W Swindell SACNASP Wessels: E P Ferreira SACNASP Mamatwan: O van Antwerpen SACNASP 4 ROM run of mine product 5 GEMCO manganese grades are given as per washed ore samples and should be read together with their respective yields.
Washed product yield is estimated for each reserve block.
6 Wessels is quoted as run of mine ROM product tonnage and %Mn W1 lump Wessels main lump managanese product grade on a dry weight per cent basis.
7 The Mamatwan reserve increase for 2005-06 reflects further optimisation of the open-cut design and life-of-mine plan: tonnage, manganese %Mn and iron %Fe grades quoted are for in situ reserves.
Information on the Company continued Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group continued Metallurgical Coal Metallurgical Coal Resources The tables below detail the total inclusive Metallurgical Coal Resources for the Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group estimated as at 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
VM volatile matter, S sulphur, CV calorific value East, Bee Creek, Nebo West, Poitrel Winchester: D Dunn MAusIMM : Gregory 4 South Blackwater higher coal price assumptions have resulted in an Crinum, Liskeard: R H Macpherson MAIG : South Walker Creek: D Keilar expansion of the open-cut economic footprint and subsequent transfer of MAIG : Wards Well, Lancewood: G Davies MAusIMM : Appin, West Cliff, resources from underground to open-cut classification.
8 the coal sequence: the resource has been truncated against this structure.
Lampunut deposit shown as Maruwai in 2004-05 estimates.
6 Wards Well resource tonnage changes are a result of classification changes decreasing the Measured and Indicated categories: for the Inferred category resource increases are a result of using full seam thickness with a minimum cut-off of 1.5m.
Information on the Company continued Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group continued Metallurgical Coal Metallurgical Coal Reserves The table below details the total inclusive Metallurgical Coal Reserves for the Carbon Steel Customer Sector Group estimated as at 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
5 Proved Probable Total Marketable Reserve Coal Coal Coal Mine life BHP 5 Reserve Reserve Reserve based on Billiton Commodity Mining Coal Millions Millions Millions Millions Reserve Interest 1 2 3 3 4 4 Deposit Method Type of tonnes of tonnes of tonnes of tonnes %Ash %VM %S years % Queensland Coal Reserves at operating mines CQCA JV Goonyella Broadmeadow OC Met 477 121 598 415 9.1 23.4 0.52 35 50 UG Met 32 95 127 108 6.7 23.7 0.50 Peak Downs OC Met 262 565 827 459 9.2 20.7 0.60 55 50 Saraji OC Met 128 196 324 188 9.7 18.5 0.60 24 50 Norwich Park OC Met 33 42 75 55 10.2 17.3 0.69 9 50 6 Blackwater OC Met Th 117 230 347 315 9.6 24.2 0.44 34 50 7 South Blackwater OC Met Th 34 130 165 136 10.4 26.6 0.47 34 50 Gregory JV Gregory Crinum OC Met Th 2.0 7.0 9.1 7.6 7.4 33.4 0.60 7 50 UG Met Th 39 39 33 10.9 32.0 0.60 BHP Mitsui South Walker Creek OC Met Th 45 26 71 44 8.5 12.8 0.35 14 80 Queensland Coal development projects BHP Mitsui 8 Poitrel OC Met 39 29 69 50 8.6 23.7 0.35 17 80 Illawarra Coal Reserves at operating mines Appin UG Met Th 41 41 34 8.9 23 0.36 15 100 West Cliff UG Met Th 6 21 27 22 8.9 21 0.36 11 100 Dendrobium UG Met Th 1 23 25 18 10.3 23 0.56 8 100 68 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 69 Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group continued 1 Approximate drill hole spacing used to classify the reserve is: Deposit Proved Coal Reserve Probable Coal Reserve Goonyella Broadmeadow Maximum 500m spacing of geophysically logged, analysed 500m to 1,000m spacing of geophysically logged, coreholes with a minimum 95% recovery or less than analysed coreholes with minimum 95% recovery or 10% expected error at 95% confidence on a 10% to 20% expected error at 95% confidence 200m x 200m block, 3D seismic coverage for UG resources on a 200m x 200m block Peak Downs, Saraji, Norwich Park, Maximum 500m spacing of geophysically logged, analysed 500m to 1,000m spacing of geophysically logged, Blackwater, South Blackwater, coreholes with a minimum 95% recovery analysed coreholes with a minimum 95% recovery South Walker Creek Gregory Crinum Maximum 500m spacing of geophysically logged, analysed 500m to 1,000m spacing of geophysically logged, coreholes with a minimum 95% recovery 3D seismic analysed coreholes with a minimum 95% recovery coverage for UG resources Poitrel Maximum 650m spacing of geophysically logged, analysed 650m to 1,000m spacing of geophysically logged, coreholes with a minimum 95% recovery analysed coreholes with a minimum 95% recovery Appin, West Cliff, Dendrobium Maximum of 700m between data points Maximum of 1,000m between data points 2 Competent Persons Reserves Goonyella Broadmeadow, Peak Downs, Saraji, Norwich Park, Blackwater, South Blackwater, South Walker Creek, Gregory Crinum, Poitrel: B Cox MAusIMM Appin, West Cliff, Dendrobium: B J Colman MAusIMM 3 OC open-cut, UG underground, Met metallurgical coal, Th thermal coal 4 Coal quality is for a potential product rather than the in situ quality and is on an air-dried basis.
5 Total Coal Reserves tonnes is the sum of Proved and Probable Coal Reserve estimates, which include allowances for diluting materials and for losses that occur when the coal is mined, and are at the moisture content when mined.
Marketable Coal Reserves tonnes is the tonnage of coal available, at specified moisture and air-dried quality, for sale after beneficiation of the Total Coal Reserves.
Note that where the coal is not beneficiated the Total Coal Reserve tonnes are the Total Marketable Coal Reserve tonnes, with moisture adjustment where applicable.
The plant recovery factor estimates were based on the analysis of bore data and plant simulations to achieve a target product ash.
6 Blackwater the increase in reserve base compared to 2005 was primarily driven by higher coal price assumptions and a subsequent extension of the economic open-cut footprints for all pits.
7 South Blackwater the increase in reserve base compared to 2005 was primarily driven by higher coal price assumptions and a subsequent extension of the economic open-cut footprints for all pits.
The Kennedy Pit area contributed 65 million tonnes to the overall 75 million tonnes increase in the estimated reserves.
8 Poitrel project approved and being brought into production in 2006.
The Poitrel deposit is called Poitrel Winchester in the resource table.
The intent of calling this deposit Poitrel in the reserve estimate was to highlight that the Poitrel pits were the sole contributors to the estimate: there were no reserves estimated for the Winchester or Satellite areas.
Information on the Company continued Diamonds and Specialty Products Customer Sector Group Mineral Resources The table below details the total inclusive Mineral Resources for the Diamonds and Specialty Products Customer Sector Group as at 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
Measured Resource Indicated Resource Inferred Resource Total Resource Millions Millions Millions Millions BHP of dry Carats of dry Carats of dry Carats of dry Carats Billiton Commodity metric per metric per metric per metric per Interest 1 6 Deposit Mine Type tonnes tonne tonnes tonne tonnes tonne tonnes tonne % 2 Diamonds EKATI Core Zone OC 45 0.5 21 0.4 0.6 0.5 67 0.5 80 SP 1.1 4.2 0.1 0.3 1.2 3.8 UG 9.2 1.8 21 0.7 7.2 1.0 37 1.0 EKATI Buffer Zone OC 1.2 0.8 24 2.0 17 2.1 42 2.0 58.8 Millions of dry Millions of dry Millions of dry Millions of dry metric tonnes metric tonnes metric tonnes metric tonnes Mineral Sands Richards Bay 3 Minerals TiO2 slag 6.8 21 28 50 Millions Millions Millions Millions of % of % of % of % Mineral Sands tonnes Ilmenite %THM tonnes Ilmenite %THM tonnes Ilmenite %THM tonnes Ilmenite %THM Project 4 Corridor Sands ROM 1,593 4.5 8.2 1,079 3.4 6.2 2,672 4.1 7.4 90 Millions of Millions of Millions of Millions of dry metric dry metric dry metric dry metric Phosphate tonnes %P2O tonnes %P O tonnes %P O tonnes %P O 5 2 5 2 5 2 5 Southern Cross 5 Fertilisers OC 61 25.4 26 23.0 40 20.1 127 23.3 100 SP 0.6 22.3 0.6 22.3 1 Competent Persons Resources Diamonds: D Dyck MAusIMM Richards Bay Minerals: J Dumouchel APEGGA Corridor Sands: M Harley MAusIMM employed by SRK Consultants Southern Cross Fertilisers: A McGill MAusIMM 2 Diamonds resources are estimated on an effective 1mm square aperture stone size cut-off.
3 Richards Bay Minerals Mineral Resource estimates are as at 31 December 2005.
4 The Corridor Sands project has not been approved for development and reserves have not been quoted per BHP Billiton policy.
Further feasibility studies are being undertaken and the resource reporting will be reviewed during 2006-07.
%THM total heavy minerals quoted on a dry weight per cent basis.
5 Southern Cross Fertilisers was sold in August 2006, the reporting of the resource is to comply with the 30 June 2006 reporting date: %P O percentage 2 5 of phosphate.
6 OC open-cut, SP stockpile, UG underground, ROM run of mine product, TiO titanium dioxide 2 70 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 71 Diamonds and Specialty Products Customer Sector Group continued Ore Reserves The table below details the total Ore Reserves for the Diamonds and Specialty Products Customer Sector Group as at 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve Total Ore Reserve Millions Millions Millions Mine life BHP of dry Carats of dry Carats of dry Carats based on Billiton Commodity Mine metric per metric per metric per Reserve Interest 1 2 6 Deposits Type tonnes tonne tonnes tonne tonnes tonne years % 3 Diamonds EKATI Core Zone OC 20 0.4 10 0.5 31 0.4 10 80 SP 1.2 2.5 1.2 2.5 UG 6.5 0.9 5.3 0.9 11.8 0.9 Millions of dry Millions of dry Millions of dry Mineral Sands metric tonnes metric tonnes metric tonnes Richards Bay 4 Minerals TiO slag 6.2 20 26 25 50 2 Millions Millions Millions Phosphate of tonnes %P O of tonnes %P2O5 of tonnes %P O 2 5 2 5 Southern Cross 5 Fertilisers OC 29 24.6 52 24.3 82 24.4 29 100 SP 0.6 22.3 0.6 22.3 1 Approximate drill hole spacing used to classify the reserve is: Deposit Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve EKATI Core Zone Less than 25m and up to 50m Less than 25m and up to 75m Richards Bay Minerals 50m x 50m 800m x 100m Southern Cross Fertilisers 120m x 120m 400m x 400m 2 Competent Persons Reserves Diamonds OC and SP: D Scott MAusIMM, Diamonds UG: W Boggis MAusIMM Richards Bay Minerals: J Dumouchel APEGGA Southern Cross Fertilisers: P Allsopp FAusIMM 3 Diamond prices used for pit optimisations and Ore Reserves reflect Company determined long-term marketing conditions.
Diamonds are estimated at an effective 2mm square aperture stone size cut-off.
4 Richards Bay Minerals Ore Reserve estimates are as at 31 December 2005.
5 Southern Cross Fertilisers was sold in August 2006, the reporting of the reserve is to comply with the 30 June 2006 reporting date: %P O percentage 2 5 of phosphate.
6 OC open-cut, SP stockpile, UG underground, ROM run of mine product, TiO2 titanium dioxide.
Information on the Company continued Energy Coal Customer Sector Group Energy Coal Resources The table below details the total inclusive Coal Resources for the Energy Coal Customer Sector Group estimated at 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
Measured Indicated Inferred Total Resource BHP Resource Resource Resource.
The relinquishment, non-granting of prospecting Klipspruit, Koornfontein, Weltevreden: J H Marais SACNASP : Khutala: permits currently in legal dispute, and reclassification of resources has D J Lawrence SACNASP : Middelburg: J C van der Merwe SACNASP : resulted in a decrease of resources as well as the omission of metallurgical Optimum: G J Cronje SACNASP : Leandra North: J H Repsold SACNASP : coal resources.
11 Naudesbank: C W Joubert SACNASP : Leandra South, Theunissen, T-Project, Leandra South is reported in miscellaneous this year rather than in Yzermyn, South Witbank, Usutu, Davel, Newcastle, Remainder Block IV: projects as per last year to comply with internal BHP Billiton reporting J L Pienaar SACNASP : Togara South: D Dunn MAusIMM : Mt Arthur Coal: criteria: Leandra South is not currently part of any planned capital project.
12 P Grey FAusIMM : Cerrejon Coal Company: C D van Niekerk SACNASP Mt Arthur Coal during 2005-06 several studies were completed within employed by Gemecs Pty Limited the Bayswater No.
These studies included the 2 Zululand Anthracite Collieries ZAC was sold in December 2005 and does MAC UG Pre-feasibility Study, South Pit Development Feasibility Study, and not form part of the resources for the 30 June 2006 reporting date.
the Detailed Assessment of the Economic Viability of Remaining Open-cut 3 OC open-cut, UG underground Resources Within Bayswater No.
These 4 Th thermal coal, Met metallurgical coal studies have provided an improved delineation definition of economically 5 San Juan exclusive resources will be evaluated in calendar year 2006 mineable resources.
Factors contributing to a reduction of resources as a under new resource model and mine plan.
result of the UG Pre-Feasibility Study include the exclusion of certain coal 6 Khutala the Khutala five seam resources previously reported as a separate seams that were previously included in resource numbers, improved project have now been included as part of Khutala.
definition of working sections within the coal seams and minimum mining 7 Klipspruit became an operational mine in July 2005: it was previously heights for working sections have been increased.
The South Pit reported as a project.
Development Feasibility Study and Saddlers Pit assessments have provided 8 Koornfontein was sold in July 2006: the reporting of the resource is to an improved understanding of mineable resources outside of the UG comply with the 30 June 2006 reporting date.
resource area, which has led to an exclusion of resources in what has been 9 Weltevreden the state-held Mineral Resource areas have been excluded referred to as a steeply dipping no-mans land area.
13 due to refusal of a prospecting permit, which is currently in legal dispute.
The increase in tonnages at Cerrejon was due to reclassification of the resources with additional drilling carried out in the so called New Mining areas as well as new modelling techniques used for reverse faults.
72 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 73 Energy Coal Customer Sector Group continued Energy Coal Reserves The table below details the total Coal Reserves for the Energy Coal Customer Sector Group estimated at 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
3 Proved Probable Total Marketable Coal Reserve Coal Coal Coal Mine life BHP 3 Reserve Reserve Reserve based on Billiton Commodity Mining Coal Millions Millions Millions Millions Kcal kg % Total Reserve Interest 1 2 12 4 4 11 Deposit Method Type of tonnes of tonnes of tonnes of tonnes %Ash %VM %S CV moisture years % New Mexico operating mines San Juan UG Th 77 6 83 83 5,300 9.9 13 100 Navajo OC Th 210 210 210 0.84 4,790 13.2 27 100 South Africa operating mines 5 Douglas OC Th 2 2 1 15.2 23.3 0.64 6,579 7.5 2 84 UG Th 11 11 6 15.2 25.7 0.60 6,601 7.5 6 Khutala OC Met Th 3 4 8 6 30.0 18.6 1.73 6,070 22 100 OC Th 24 43 67 67 20.6 36.5 0.98 4,394 UG Th 204 204 204 21.6 34.3 0.93 4,470 7 Klipspruit OC Th 52 33 86 65 19.1 23.3 0.54 6,027 7.5 18 100 8 Koornfontein UG Th 8 1 9 6 15.3 25.3 0.80 6,438 7.5 2 100 9 Middelburg OC Th 201 63 264 210 21.8 22.7 0.81 5,924 7.0 9 84 10 Optimum OC Th 158 158 119 18.3 26.9 0.71 6,122 7.8 9 100 Australia operating mine Mt Arthur Coal OC Th 204 38 242 196 17.1 30.3 0.64 6,385 8.7 16 100 Colombia operating mine Cerrejon Coal Company OC Th 656 213 869 8598.7 0.646,15513.8 27 33.3 1 Approximate drill hole spacing used to classify the reserve is: Deposit Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve San Juan 0m 500m 500m 1,000m Navajo 1,100m maximum nearest hole spacing, 180m average n a Douglas A minimum of 8 boreholes per 100Ha 48 boreholes per 100Ha Khutala A minimum of 16 boreholes per 100Ha 516 boreholes per 100Ha Klipspruit A minimum of 8 boreholes per 100Ha 48 boreholes per 100Ha Koornfontein A minimum of 8 boreholes per 100Ha 48 boreholes per 100Ha Middelburg A minimum of 16 boreholes per 100Ha 516 boreholes per 100Ha Optimum A minimum of 16 boreholes per 100Ha 516 boreholes per 100Ha Mt Arthur Coal Less than 500m A minimum of 16 boreholes per 100Ha structurally complex areas Cerrejon Coal Company A minimum of 6 boreholes per 100Ha 26 boreholes per 100Ha 2 Competent Persons Reserves feasibility study.
As such the life-of-mine plan for 2006 has excluded these San Juan: J Mercier MAusIMM areas, and the reserves reported are based on this revised 2006 life-of-mine Navajo: D Rawson MAusIMM plan.
Marketable Reserve comprises 100% export coal.
6 Douglas: D Hoare ECSA Khutala Marketable Reserve comprises 100% domestic Eskom coal.
7 Khutala: W Schluter SACNASP Klipspruit became an operational mine in July 2005.
It was previously Klipspruit, Koornfontein: J H Marais SACNASP reported as a project.
Marketable Reserve comprises 71% export coal Middelburg: A Bullock SAIMM and 29% domestic Eskom coal.
8 Optimum: G J Cronje SACNASP Koornfontein Marketable Reserve comprises 100% export coal.
Mt Arthur Coal: R Spencer MAusIMM Koornfontein was sold in July 2006: the reporting of the reserve is to comply Cerrejon Coal Company: C D van Niekerk SACNASP employed by Gemecs with the 30 June 2006 reporting date.
9 Pty Limited Middelburg Marketable Reserve comprises 44% export coal and 56% 3 Total Coal Reserve tonnes is the sum of Proved and Probable Coal Reserve domestic Eskom coal.
10 estimates, which includes allowances for diluting materials and for losses Optimum the decrease in reserve tonnage from that reported in 2005 that occur when the coal is mined and are at the moisture content when is due to a revision of the life-of-mine plan for Optimum.
Marketable Coal Reserve tonnes is the tonnage of coal available, included in the 2005 life-of-mine plan are currently being re-evaluated with at specified moisture and air-dried quality, for sale after the beneficiation of the goal of securing additional capital in order to facilitate the mining of the Total Coal Reserves.
Note that where the coal is not beneficiated the these areas.
As such the life-of-mine plan for 2006 has excluded these areas, Total Coal Reserve tonnes are the Marketable Coal Reserve tonnes, with and the reserves reported are based on this without capital case.
Marketable moisture adjustment where applicable.
Reserve comprises 45% export coal and 55% domestic Eskom coal.
4 11 OC open-cut, UG underground, Th thermal coal, Met metallurgical coal Coal moisture content is on an as received basis.
5 12 Douglas the decrease in reserve tonnage from that reported in 2005 is due Zululand Anthracite Colliery ZAC was sold in December 2005 and does not to a revision of the life-of-mine plan for Douglas.
Certain areas included in form part of the resources for the 30 June 2006 reporting date.
the 2005 life-of-mine plan are currently being re-evaluated as part of a BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 73 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 74 2.
Information on the Company continued Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group Mineral Resources The table below details the total inclusive Mineral Resources for the Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group as at 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
Measured Resource Indicated Resource Inferred Resource Total Resource Millions Millions Millions Millions BHP of dry of dry of dry of dry Billiton Commodity Ore metric metric metric metric Interest 1 2 2 2 2 2 Deposit Type tonnes %Ni tonnes %Ni tonnes %Ni tonnes %Ni % Colombia 3 Cerro Matoso Laterite 40 1.77 34 1.38 3.7 1.35 78 1.58 99.8 SP 21 1.38 21 1.38 Nickel West operations 4 Leinster OC sulphide 3.7 1.6 69 0.5 83 0.5 155 0.6 100 SP 1.4 0.8 1.4 0.8 SP oxidised 4.3 1.7 4.3 1.7 UG 13 2.3 17 2.4 2.5 1.6 33 2.3 5 Mt Keith OC 215 0.53 88 0.49 52 0.50 355 0.52 100 SP 30 0.50 30 0.50 SP oxidised 21 0.9 21 0.9 Nickel West projects 6 Yakabindie OC sulphide 248 0.57 186 0.58 434 0.58 100 Cliffs UG 1.3 4.8 1.2 3.7 2.5 4.3 100 Jericho OC 35 0.6 35 0.6 50 Australia projects Ravensthorpe Laterite 129 0.74 146 0.58 114 0.53 389 0.62 100 1 5 Competent Persons Resources Mt Keith the resources of Mt Keith Operations are reported on the basis of Cerro Matoso: C A Rodriguez MAusIMM 0.4% nickel cut-off grade.
Additional lower-grade material, with a nickel Leinster: M Job MAusIMM employed by Quantitative Geoscience Pty Ltd grade of less than 0.4 per cent nickel but with a recovered nickel grade of Mt Keith: A Weeks MAusIMM greater than or equal to 0.2 per cent, that occurs within the current life-ofYakabindie: J McCluskey MAusIMM, A Wesson FAusIMM mine pit shell is also included 26 million tonnes at 0.37% nickel.
The Cliffs: T Journeaux MAusIMM stockpile oxide resources are as reported at 30 June 2005, pending the Jericho: S Fogarty MAusIMM results of a review of material tonnes and grade.
6 Ravensthorpe: A C Bailey MAusIMM Yakabindie Mineral Resources reported at a 0.4% nickel cut-off.
2 OC open-cut, UG underground, SP stockpile, %Ni per cent nickel A complete update of the geological model and resource estimate was 3 The Cerro Matoso resource is based on the 2004 resource model updated undertaken after 172 new holes totalling 48,185m of drilling.
Tonnage with new density information.
Minor adjustments to the in situ resource increase over previous estimate represents extension at depth.
In addition have occurred based on the updated density data.
In addition, stockpiled the geological modelling of talc, which impacts metallurgical recovery, has resource has been included in the 2005-06 resource tabulation.
A new been undertaken and resulted in a downgrading of previously Measured resource model update will be undertaken in 2006-07 with drilling Resource to Indicated Resource due to lower confidence in the talc information updated to June 2006.
4 Leinster there were no material changes to the Perseverance resource model.
Resource definition drilling has added approximately 6kt Ni to the Progress resource.
74 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 75 Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group continued Ore Reserves The table below details the total Ore Reserves for the Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group as at 30 June 2006 in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated.
Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve Total Ore Reserve Mine life BHP Billiton Commodity Ore Millions of dry Millions of dry Millions of dry based on Interest 1 2 3 4 4 4 4 Deposit Type metric tonnes %Ni metric tonnes %Ni metric tonnes %Ni Reserve years % Colombia 5 Cerro Matoso Laterite 43 1.75 18 1.48 61 1.67 20 99.8 Nickel West 6 Leinster OC 0.71.8 0.71.8 6 100 UG 7.0 1.8 7.6 1.9 15 1.9 7 Mt Keith OC 166 0.54 47 0.52 213 0.54 21 100 SP 30 0.5 30 0.5 Australia projects 8 Ravensthorpe Laterite 118 0.75 120 0.6 238 0.68 22 100 1 Approximate drill hole spacing used to classify the reserve is: Deposit Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve Cerro Matoso Less than 17m Greater than 17m and less than 33m Leinster 25m x 25m 25m x 50m Mt Keith 60m x 40m 80m x 80m Ravensthorpe 40mE x 50mN 80mE x 100mN 2 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are: Deposit Metallurgical recovery Ni% Cerro Matoso to metal 86 Leinster UG Reserve to Ni in concentrate 86 OC Reserve to Ni in concentrate 82 Mt Keith OC Reserve to Ni in concentrate 64 SP Reserve to Ni in concentrate 57 Ravensthorpe the plant recovery cannot be directly related to the metal contained in the reserve due to ore beneficiation prior to hydrometallurgical processing 3 Competent Persons Reserves Cerro Matoso: F Fuentes MAusIMM Leinster: A Cooper MAusIMM, M Valent MAusIMM Mt Keith: R Adam MAusIMM Ravensthorpe: M J Bue PEO 4 OC open-cut, UG underground, SP stockpile, %Ni per cent Nickel 5 Cerro Matoso the density was adjusted with the new results obtained in the last year, and the chemical specifications of the mineral to the plant were changed in alumina and silica magnesium oxide ratio.
These changes increase both the resources and reserves.
6 Leinster Nickel Operations the open-cut ore reserves OC at Leinster Nickel Operations are derived from the Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources within an open-cut design, after modifying ore dilution and recovery factors have been applied.
For Rockys Reward Cutback, an undiluted resource cut-off grade of 0.8% was applied.
7 At Mt Keith, 3 million tonnes of stockpile material has been reclassified as this is shown to be uneconomic from review of the metallurgical recovery model.
Net change in open-cut ore over and above depletion is due to a change of pit design, the application of updated assumptions of mining recovery and a review of the economics of low-grade ore. 8 Ravensthorpe minor decrease to the reserve is the result of a review of the mine operations plan.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 75 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 76 This page has been left blank intentionally 76 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 77 3.
Operating and financial review and prospects Contents page Our business 79 Application of critical accounting policies and estimates 83 Operating results 83 Overview 84 Results of operations 84 Customer Sector Group summary 87 Comparison to results under US GAAP 91 Liquidity and capital resources 91 Off-balance sheet arrangements 95 Contractual obligations and commercial commitments 96 Significant changes 96 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 77 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 78 78 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006
