5041 BHPB AR06 Pt2 13 9 06 10:11 PM Page 253 Glossary of terms Technical terms Petroleum coke is a residue from the refining of heavy fraction oil into light fraction oil.
In the context of ADSs and listed investments, the term quoted means traded on the relevant exchange.
Probable ore reserves are reserves for which quantity and grade and or quality are computed from information similar to that used for A$ means the currency of the Commonwealth of Australia.
proven measured reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and ADS means American Depositary Share.
measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced.
The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven Brownfield project means the expansion of an existing operation.
measured reserves, is high enough to assure continuity between Coal reserves has the same meaning as ore reserves, but specifically points of observation.
Proved or proven ore reserves are the reserves for which a Coking coal, by virtue of its carbonisation properties, is used in the quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches manufacture of coke, which is used in the steelmaking process.
and workings on drill holes and grade and or quality are computed from the results of detailed samplings, and b the sites for inspection, Condensate is a mixture of hydrocarbons which exist in gaseous form sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic in natural underground reservoirs, but which condense to form a liquid character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral at atmospheric conditions.
content of reserves are well established.
Crude oil is a mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in liquid form in Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of crude natural underground reservoirs and remain liquid at atmospheric oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering pressure after being produced at the well-head and passing through data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in surface separating facilities.
future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and Direct reduced iron DRI is metallic iron formed by removing oxygen operating conditions i. e. prices and costs as of the date the estimate from iron ore without the formation of, or passage through, a is made.
DRI can be used as feedstock for steel production.
Reserve life is current stated ore reserves divided by current rate DLC merger means the Dual Listed Companies merger between of production.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on 29 June 2001.
Run of mine product ROM is product mined in the course of DLC structure means the corporate structure resulting from the regular mining activities DLC merger.
Spud means to commence drilling of an oil or gas well.
Dry gas is a mixture of hydrocarbon gases, inerts and other gases Stockpile SP is an accumulation of ore or mineral built up when that are in the gaseous phase at pipeline conditions with no free demand slackens or when the treatment plant or beneficiation liquids at operating conditions.
It is principally composed of methane, equipment is incomplete or temporarily unequal to handling the mine ethane and low levels of propanes and butanes, depending upon output: any heap of material formed to create a reserve for loading processing and pipeline specifications.
or other purposes or material dug and piled for future use.
Energy coal is used as a fuel source in electrical power generation, Total coal reserves are the combination of the proved and probable cement manufacture and various industrial applications.
Energy coal ore reserves which specifically concern coal.
may also be referred to as steaming or thermal coal.
Total ore reserves represent proved ore reserves plus probable ore Ethane, where sold separately, is largely ethane gas that has been reserves.
One tonne of ethane is approximately equivalent to 26.8 thousand cubic feet of gas.
Underground UG refers to natural or man-made excavation under the surface of the Earth.
Greenfield project means the development of a new project.
Hot briquetted iron HBI is densified DRI where the densification Financial terms is carried out at a temperature greater than 650C.
The resultant IFRS terminology US equivalent 3 product has density greater than 5g cm.
HBI can be used as Total equity Stockholders equity feedstock for steel production.
Share capital Subscribed capital stock Leaching is the process by which a soluble mineral can be Ordinary shares Common stock economically recovered from ore by dissolution.
Share premium account Paid-in surplus Liquefied natural gas LNG consists largely of methane that has Provision accrued liability, Reserve can represent either been liquefied through chilling and pressurisation.
One tonne of LNG i. e. not part of total equity part of stockholders equity, is approximately equivalent to 45.9 thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
accrued liability or estimated Liquified petroleum gas LPG consists of propane and butane and a depletion in the cost of an asset small amount less than 2 per cent of ethane that has been liquefied Bonus issue Stock dividend through pressurisation.
One tonne of LPG is approximately equivalent Depreciation Depreciation and depletion to 11.6 barrels.
Profit attributable to members Net income Marketable coal reserves represent beneficiated or otherwise Units of measure enhanced coal product and should be read in conjunction with, but not instead of, reports of coal reserves.
Abbreviation Description Metallurgical coal is a broader term than coking coal which includes MMcf d Million cubic feet per day all coals used in steelmaking, such as coal used for the pulverised coal Mbbl d Thousand barrels per day injection process.
MMbbl d Million barrels per day mtpa Million tonnes per annum Oil and gas reserves mean those quantities of oil and gas that are anticipated to be legally and commercially recoverable from known scf Standard cubic feet accumulations as of the date of the reserve estimate.
tph Tonnes per hour boe Barrel oil equivalent Open-cut OC surface working in which the working area is kept open to the sky.
dwt Dry weight tonnes 12 Tj TeraJoule 10 joules Ore reserves are that part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
