4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 08 09 06 2:15 PM Page 10 Licence to operate BHP Billiton is determined to achieve the highest standards in the way we do business.
Our commitment to ethical conduct, the health and safety of our people, the quality of life of the communities where we operate, and the health of the environment is how we earn our licence to operate a licence that is critical to the success and sustainability of our business.
Through our performance in these areas, we seek to become a partner of choice for local communities, governments, resource owners and other stakeholders.
These partnerships can provide us with competitive advantages in accessing new resources and in attracting and retaining the best employees.
Our commitment to sustainable development is supported by our aspirational goal of Zero Harm, our Guide to Business Conduct, the way we approach our relationships with stakeholders, and transparent corporate governance.
We have an ongoing commitment to spend at least 1 per cent of our pre-tax profit on a three-year rolling average on programs to support the communities in which we operate thereby ensuring that they also directly benefit from our success.
Humera Malik Community Development Manager, Pakistan Humera is one of our most experienced community development practitioners.
She and her team have worked with community members adjacent to the Zamzama Gas Plant to establish a range of programs in female education, small business development and health, improving the lives of the communities surrounding our operation.
Zamzama, Pakistan Hillside Bayside, South Africa School revegetation project, Australia Dee Estuary, North Wales Rewarding a successful partnership Understanding our environment BHP Billiton is the Diversified Minerals BHP Billiton has undertaken a two-year and Medals Sponsor of the Beijing 2008 exploration program to define bauxite Olympic Games and Paralympic Games.
resources in its Bakhuis concession in Our sponsorship will provide financial western Suriname.
As part of this program, support to the Beijing Olympic and a camera trapping program was established Paralympic Games, as well as the raw in conjunction with Conservation materials for the gold, silver and bronze International to record the diverse and medals, and recognises the importance of abundant fauna of the concession area.
China and the Chinese people to our The program has added significantly to our Groups success.
understanding of the Bakhuis fauna and expands existing ecological knowledge in Suriname.
The study also allows us to compare Bakhuis exploration with other locations in the Guianas and Amazonia and provides a sound basis for the prediction of potential impacts of any future mining at Bakhuis, together with responsible management of those operations.
10 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 9 9 06 12:53 AM Page 11 Pioneering technology at Hay Point Supporting communities alleviates employee health issues In Pakistan, we joined with the Improvements to the coal unloading Government and local and international process at the Hay Point terminal, non-government organisations to support Australia, has increased unloading relief efforts following their devastating efficiency while reducing the risk of earthquake.
Our donations reached more hearing damage and other injuries to than US$600,000 and will go towards the operator.
The BHP Billiton design urgent humanitarian programs, the may have broader applications for the reconstruction of houses, medical bulk materials transport industry.
supplies and mobile medical units.
Promoting better outcomes Escondida Chile and Antamina Peru participated in an International Council on Mining & Metals study to understand how large-scale mining activity can enhance the socio-economic development of host countries.
In both cases, there was evidence that our mining operations have contributed to both economic and social improvements.
The study provides lessons on how to promote better socio-economic outcomes in natural resource development projects.
Cerro Colorado, Chile Read more about our Sustainable Development Policy, practices and performance in our detailed Sustainability Report at http: sustainability.
Dinas Mashamaite, Project Manager, JET Education Services, South Africa BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 11 we see the strength of aluminium but three-year-old sammy sees an ice cream shop straight ahead of his chauffeur-driven chariot...
