4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 11 09 06 11:50 AM Page 12 World-class assets EKATI, Canada Robert Beaulieu Aboriginal Employment Coordinator EKATI, Canada Robert is EKATIs senior Aboriginal Affairs officer and has been with the Company since May 1998.
He is a tremendous ambassador for our Company and has helped us build many bridges with Aboriginal communities in the region.
Mt Arthur Coal, Australia BHP Billiton has around 100 operating assets across the globe producing a range of commodities.
Our portfolio of assets and the spread of our businesses are a fundamental strength of our Group.
Not only do our operations underpin our consistent performance, they generate the cash flow we use to pay our employees, build new projects and fund our consistent returns to shareholders.
Maintaining and maximising the value of these world-class assets is critical.
We run our operations with efficiency and excellence in mind, and are always on the look-out for opportunities to reliably improve our practices and procedures.
We set benchmarks for our operations and continuously search for opportunities to safely and sustainably drive more from them.
Our portfolio of assets is carefully managed through divestment, development and acquisition.
Record annual production was achieved at North West Shelf Australia, Hillside South Africa, Mozal Mozambique, Paranam Suriname, Escondida Chile, Antamina Peru, Western Australian Iron ore and GEMCO both Australia, New Mexico Coal US, Cerrejon Coal and Cerro Matoso both Colombia.
12 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 08 09 06 2:18 PM Page 13 Targeting excellence Driving more from our operations Our Cerro Matoso operation in Colombia We continued to improve our already lowboosted nickel production by nearly six cost aluminium portfolio during the year.
This strong performance In alumina, the 250,000 tonnes per annum was the result of Operating Excellence tpa Worsley alumina refinery expansion initiatives, which led to an increase in the of which BHP Billitons share is 215,000 quality of feedstock to the smelter, better tpa from 3.25 million tpa to 3.5 million tpa performance from equipment critical to was completed and commissioned in production, and strong recovery in financial year 2006.
Worsleys Berth 6 demand for nickel.
shiploader program was also completed, with over one million tonnes of alumina having been loaded at the new berth since March 2006.
These investments will help Worsley maintain its position as one of the worlds lowest cost alumina refineries and positions BHP Billiton to benefit from strong global demand for alumina.
Increasing production Western Australia iron ore production was a record 89.6 million wet tonnes BHP Billiton share over the 2006 financial year.
This increase reflects strong customer demand for iron ore products along with production from additional capacity at Area C and the Products and Capacity Expansion PACE projects.
Yandi, Australia BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 13 we see parts made from copper, nickel and silver: chad sees an opportunity to grab just 10 more minutes...
