Insurance risk Sections 1 to 4 below describe the business and the risks of Amlins Introduction syndicate operations.
Amlin Bermuda is described in section 5.
The Group accepts insurance risk in a range of classes of business through Lloyds Syndicate 2001s four separate underwriting businesses 1.
Non-marine risks and Amlin Bermuda.
The bias of the portfolio is towards short-tail 1. i Non-marine property risks property and accident risk but liability coverage is also underwritten.
Non-marine property 2006 In the underwriting of insurance or reinsurance policies the Groups underwriters use their skill, knowledge and data on past claims A B C experience to evaluate the likely claims cost and therefore the premium D which should be sufficient across a portfolio of risks to cover claims E costs, expenses and to produce a profit.
However due to the nature of F insurance risk there is no guarantee that the premiums charged will be sufficient to cover claims costs.
This shortfall may be caused by G insufficient premium being charged or result from an unexpectedly high H J level of claims.
I A number of controls are deployed to limit the amount of insurance exposure underwritten.
Each year a business plan is prepared and agreed which is used to monitor the amount of premium income to be A Middle East 1% written in total and for each class of business.
Progress to this plan is B Canada 4% monitored during the year.
The Group also operates under a line guide C Oceania 3% D UK 6% which determines the maximum liability per policy which can be written E Worldwide Other 3% for each class and for each underwriter.
These can be exceeded in F Europe excluding UK 7% G Africa 1% exceptional circumstances but only with the approval of senior H Asia 7% management.
Apart from the UK and some of the international I Caribbean, Central & South America 8% J USA 60% comprehensive motor liability portfolio, which has unlimited liability, all policies have a per loss limit which caps the size of any individual claims.
For larger sum insured risks reinsurance coverage may be purchased.
The Group is also exposed to catastrophe losses which may impact Non-marine property classes many risks in a single event and again reinsurance is purchased to limit 2006 Current 2006 the impact of loss aggregation from such events.
These reinsurance Gross maximum Average arrangements are described on page 86. premium line size line size m m m Insurance liabilities are written through individual risk acceptances, Catastrophe reinsurance 163 50 4.0 reinsurance treaties or through facilities whereby Amlin is bound by other per programme underwriting entities.
Binding authority arrangements delegate Per risk property reinsurance 50 20 1.7 underwriting authority to agents acting as coverholders who use their per programme judgement to write risks on our behalf under clear authority levels.
Proportional reinsurance 27 5 0.7 Direct and facultative property 77 20 2.8 The insurance liabilities underwritten by the Group are reviewed on an Binding authorities 19 2 0.2 individual risk or contract basis and through review of portfolio performance.
All claims arising are reserved upon notification.
Each Notes: quarter the entire portfolio of business is subject to a reserving process 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at a rate of 1 US$1.5 and whereby levels of paid and outstanding advised but not paid claims are therefore currency rate of exchange changes may increase or reduce the sterling reviewed.
Potential future claims are assessed with a provision for limits.
incurred but not reported IBNR claims being made.
This provision is 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional subject to review by senior executives and an independent internal treaties to Amlin Bermuda Ltd. actuarial assessment is carried out by the in-house actuarial team to 3 Premiums are stated net of acquisition costs.
determine the adequacy of the provision.
Whilst a detailed and disciplined exercise is carried out to provide for claims notified, it is possible that Catastrophe reinsurance protects insurance companies against these could exceed the reserves carried.
Furthermore there is increased catastrophic losses such as windstorm or earthquake which may impact uncertainty in establishing an accurate provision for claims which have more than one risk written by the company.
This portfolio is a key aspect been incurred but not reported and there is a possibility that claims may of the insurance risk written by the Group.
Programmes are placed on a arise which in aggregate exceed the reserve provision established.
This is layered or excess of loss basis.
Territorial exposures, from a number of partly mitigated by the reserving policy adopted by the Group which is to programmes, are much higher, but are carefully recorded and analysed carry reserves with a margin over the actuarial best estimate.
through loss simulations or realistic disaster scenarios.
The review of claims arising may result in underwriters adjusting pricing Per risk property reinsurance is also placed on an excess of loss basis levels to cater for an unexpectedly higher trend of claims advices or but covers loss or damage to a single risk within the reinsureds portfolio.
However, this may not be possible in a competitive market Proportional reinsurance includes taking a pro-rata share of a reinsureds and underwriters may respond either by accepting business with lower portfolio of business subject to payment of commission and or profit expected profit margins or declining to renew and thus reducing income.
This is almost all property business and risk exposure is Also, there is a portfolio of risk already underwritten which cannot be limited to $7.5 million any one risk.
re-priced until renewal at the end of the policy period.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 81 Risk Disclosures Direct and facultative property insurance is written for the full value of the Claims from this class emanate from professional error, negligence or an risk, or on a primary or excess of loss basis, through individual placements, accident which causes injury, damage or financial loss.
The account is or by way of delegated underwriting facilities given to coverholders vulnerable to a high frequency of claims but not individual large losses as Binding authorities.
Under these arrangements the day to day underwriting the cost to Amlin of any individual claim is small.
Claims frequency may is delegated to underwriting agents working on our behalf under binding be impacted by a generic claim which impacts many individuals such as authorities.
For these contracts, we are reliant on an agent exercising poor housing design or bad medical practice.
The size of individual claims underwriting judgement on our behalf.
We control the underwriting by is subject to the decisions arising from the US court system which can be setting clear authority levels for agents, regularly monitoring performance higher than anticipated.
There is also the potential for US courts to impose and periodically carrying out underwriting audits.
The maximum value a bad faith judgement on insurers if the insurer has acted improperly in insured is currently limited to $30 million at any one location.
Cover is trying to avoid contractual obligations.
Such awards can, in exceptional provided to large commercial enterprises with high value locations and or circumstances, be much higher than the value of the insurance claim.
many locations and also for small commercial property.
The perils covered include fire, flood, wind and earthquake damage.
Business interruption 1. iii Other non-marine classes cover is also provided for loss of earnings sustained due to the perils and The Group also writes other non-marine classes which contribute diversified properties covered but may also be extended to connected enterprises.
The main classes with the maximum sum Terrorism cover is given on a limited basis particularly where required by insured lines together with the geographical spread are shown below: local regulation, but nuclear and bio-chemical coverage is excluded in Non-marine miscellaneous most territories.
2006 The portfolio of property insurance and reinsurance business is written A B C with the aim of achieving territorial diversification.
However a severe catastrophe to a major economic zone in Europe, Japan or the USA is J likely to result in an overall loss to the property portfolio prior to D reinsurance.
The Group is exposed to the impact of large catastrophe events such as windstorms, earthquakes or terrorist incidents.
Exposure to such events is controlled and measured through loss modelling but the accuracy of this exposure analysis is limited by the quality of data and the I effectiveness of the modelling.
The Groups broad risk appetite guidelines E are set out on page 18.
It is possible that a catastrophe event exceeds H G the maximum expected event loss.
This is particularly the case for the F direct property proportion of the loss exposure where models are used to A Middle East 1% calculate a damage factor representing the amount of damage expected B Canada 2% to exposed aggregate insured values.
Errors or incorrect assumptions in C Oceania 3% D UK 24% the damage factor calculation can result in an incurred catastrophe event E Worldwide Other 11% higher than predicted due to unforeseen circumstances.
As explained F Europe excluding UK 14% below the syndicate buys a reinsurance programme to protect the Group G Africa 3% H Asia 5% against severe catastrophe.
However the price and availability of such I Caribbean, Central & South America 7% cover is variable and the amount of loss retained by the Group may J USA 30% therefore also increase or reduce.
The Group will alter inwards exposures to take account of the change in reinsurance availability in order to remain within the risk appetite.
However, there may be some period of delay Non-marine class before this can be achieved.
2006 Current 2006 Gross maximum Average The property portfolio is also exposed to an above average frequency of premium line size line size individual fire, explosion or weather related claims.
The premium charged m m m for the coverage given may not be sufficient to cover all claims made in any Accident & health 12 2 1.2 year, particularly in a year in which there is an abnormal frequency of claims.
Credit insurance 10 15 15.0 Auto 29 4 0.2 1. ii US casualty risk Aviation reinsurance per programme 2 27 4.7 The US casualty portfolio of business is protection given to cover Marine reinsurance per programme 17 67 1.5 individuals or companies to indemnify against legal liability arising from Special risks 21 17 3.0 their activities and actions or for incidents occurring on their property.
Notes: The account is currently written on an insurance and reinsurance basis to 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at a rate of 1 US$1.5 and a maximum liability of $4 million on any one claim but average lines are therefore currency rate of exchange changes may increase or reduce the sterling $0.6 million on any one claim.
2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional The portfolio is made up of specialist general casualty, professional treaties to Amlin Bermuda Ltd. indemnity, medical malpractice and errors and omissions cover.
The 3 Premiums are stated net of acquisition costs.
syndicate is a recognised market leader for nursing home cover and contractors general liability.
Small amounts of directors and officers The accident and health class is written through medical expense liability and auto liability are also written.
The class is written on a claims schemes in the US and provides direct personal accident cover or notified basis responding to all claims made during a defined period personal accident reinsurance worldwide.
Medical expense cover is except for 1 million of the contractors general liability business which is subject to a high frequency of claim and significant medical cost inflation.
written on a losses occurring basis the policy responds to losses which occur during the period even if reported after the policy has expired.
82 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 Personal accident insurance and reinsurance could be impacted by a The Group also writes a small account of financial institutions policies single or series of accidents to high value insured individuals or from a covering fidelity, professional indemnity and directors and officers liability multiple death and injury event such as an air crash or natural for companies providing financial services.
The current maximum line is catastrophe.
Approximately 54% of the income is from Western European financial institutions with the balance spread broadly by territory.
Very little The division writes a portfolio of aviation and marine reinsurance business US domicile liability risk is now written in the financial institutions portfolio.
which protects insurers against losses to their direct portfolios of business.
Coverage is given on a claims made basis.
This is written on an excess of loss basis.
The expected claims costs from these lines of business may be impacted Credit insurance is written for UK and Irish companies only and the by larger than anticipated damage awards to injured parties as well as coverage is provided to protect against insolvency of debtors in the due to an unforeseen increase in generic claims such as industrial normal course of trading.
The principal risk is for a very large corporate disease or other health hazards.
It is also possible that many claims could collapse which may impact many of our assureds or a serious economic arise under many policies from a common cause such as financial advice downturn which impacts many sectors and companies.
The financial institutions account could be affected by a major fraud or a series of related liability claims arising from The auto class covers property damage only fire, theft and collision in banking, investment company, stockbroking or other practices.
the US and there is some property damage and third party motor liability combined cover provided in other international territories.
UK motor risks subject to unexpected claim frequency or a multi vehicle event such as a The Groups motor insurance risk written in the UK commercial division is severe flood and also to large bodily injury award claims emanating from in the UK and Ireland which covers fire, theft, collision and third party an accident.
property and bodily injury liability.
99% of this portfolio is UK business.
Under the requirements of UK law third party liability coverage is The special risks account includes small premium classes such as unlimited, but matching reinsurance is purchased.
The account is biased nuclear, contingency business and terrorism reinsurance which is written towards commercial clients such as coach operators, haulage in all parts of the world.
companies, commercial vehicle fleets and company executive fleets.
There is also a UK agriculture and a specialist private car account written.
1. iv UK commercial risks Liability classes Claims frequency has improved in recent years due to car and road 2006 Current 2006 safety measures but can fluctuate due to factors such as weather Gross maximum Average conditions.
UK inflation is the key factor in determining the size of motor premium line size line size claims.
Car values affect the size of theft claims and for physical damage m m m claims size is linked to repair costs.
Inflationary pressure on court awards Employers liability 23 27 10.0 within the UK and Irish legal systems impacts liability claim values.
Public products liability 10 12 4.3 Government intervention such as liability award limit changes or expense Professional indemnity 19 7 1.4 recoveries for government bodies, including the National Health Service, UK commercial package 10 27 0.9 will also impact claim size.
For the motor account severe bodily injury and Financial institutions catastrophe damage claims e. g. UK flood are limited through the fidelity and liability 4 6 1.0 purchase of a reinsurance programme, the highest layer of which is unlimited.
The Group writes three classes of non US liability.
85% of the business emanates from the UK with the balance mainly from Ireland and Canada.
Motor insurance is a highly competitive area of insurance and pricing levels fluctuate.
Whilst underwriters accept business subject to sufficient Employers liability EL protecting employers against accident or injury rates per vehicle, in a year where there is an unexpectedly high level of to employees.
This is written on a losses occurring basis covering events claims the total premium may not be sufficient to cover all the claims.
that occurred in the policy period even if they are not notified until after There is also a risk that legal changes impact bodily injury payments and expiry for limits up to 27 million per employer.
result in a requirement to increase reserves for outstanding claims.
Public liability PL this coverage, often written in conjunction with employers liability covers accident or injury occurring to clients, customers or another third party as a result of contact with the insureds personnel, property or products.
This is written on a losses occurring basis currently for limits up to 12 million per assured.
Professional indemnity this covers liability which may arise from services provided by the assured, for example as a result of negligence or error, which may lead to financial or physical loss.
This includes but is not limited to services from architects, engineers, surveyors, advertising firms, medical professionals and financial advisors and written on a claims made basis covering losses notified in the policy period.
UK commercial package policies which combine one or more of the liability coverages mainly EL and PL with motor and or property damage protection.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 83 Risk Disclosures 3.
Marine risks War business includes aviation, marine and on land terrorism coverage The Group writes a broad account of marine risks with maximum lines and is therefore exposed to single incidents or a series of losses arising as follows: from concerted action.
A small amount of political risk, confiscation and contract frustration is written.
Marine Specie business consists of the insurance against damage or theft to fine 2006 art, the contents of vaults and other high value goods including jewellers A block and cash in transit.
The fine art may be shown at exhibitions which B C have very high aggregate values at risk.
It is therefore subject to a J frequency of small claims and also large individual losses.
Some specie is D written in catastrophe zones e. g. California.
The bloodstock account protects for death, illness or injury to horses I mainly in the UK but business from the USA, Australia and South Africa is H also written.
This covers racing and eventing horses or breeding studs.
G The average value insured is below 1 million but there is the potential for E an aggregate loss such as a stable fire which could cause multiple F claims.
A Middle East 2% B Canada 3% Yacht business covers property damage and third party injury for small C Oceania 3% leisure boats and craft.
The bulk of the account is smaller value yachts in D UK 24% E Worldwide Other 13% UK and Europe and there is an expectation of a large number of small F Europe excluding UK 20% claims.
Third party liability yacht claims arise from injury or damage G Africa 1% caused by one of our policyholders.
There is also the potential for a large H Asia 5% I Caribbean, Central & South America 4% catastrophe loss such as a UK windstorm where there are large J USA 25% aggregate sums insured in coastal regions such as southern England.
The marine liability portfolio is written to protect ship-owners, harbours, Marine classes charterers and energy companies against damage or injury to third 2006 Current 2006 parties.
This includes the potential for pollution claims.
The account could Gross maximum Average suffer a large catastrophe incident from a collision causing death of crew premium line size line size and passengers or an oil or chemical spill which could require large clean m m m up costs.
Aviation risks Energy 40 20 2.5 The Group underwrites a direct and facultative reinsurance account from War and terrorism 21 17 6.3 most parts of the world.
The portfolio is made up of the following classes Specie 8 34 8.2 with maximum lines.
Bloodstock 14 4 0.5 Yacht hull and liability 19 4 0.9 Aviation Liability 17 57 3.3 2006 Notes: A B 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted at a rate of exchange of 1 US$1.5 and C therefore currency rate of exchange changes may increase or reduce the sterling limits.
D J 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda Ltd. 3 Premiums are stated net of acquisition costs.
E The hull and cargo account is worldwide and property damage to ships and loss or damage to a large variety of cargo or goods in transit.
The F I hull account can include machinery breakdown and the account written H G by Amlin is generally targeted towards smaller brownwater vessels and A Middle East 3% fishing boats.
These accounts can be impacted by attritional claims of a B Canada 6% small size as well as a single individual large claim.
The cargo account in C Oceania 1% particular could also be involved in a major natural catastrophe loss.
D UK 18% E Worldwide Other 3% F Europe excluding UK 18% The energy portfolio is mainly offshore rig and construction policies which G Africa 0% H Asia 8% may be impacted by large individual claims but is also exposed to severe I Caribbean, Central & South America 3% catastrophe losses in areas such as the North Sea and Gulf of Mexico.
J USA 40% The account includes control of well to limit loss of oil and avoid pollution and also some business interruption cover which indemnifies companies for loss of production.
84 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 Aviation classes 5.
Amlin Bermuda 2006 Current 2006 Amlin Bermuda was formed in December 2005 to directly write a short Gross maximum Average tail portfolio of reinsurance business.
The direct written portfolio consists premium line size line size of the following classes with maximum line sizes and split by territory.
m m m Airline hull & liability 16 84 23.8 Gross Premium by territory General aviation hull & liability 7 57 15.3 Risk excess hull & liability 8 57 10.4 Airports liability 17 57 21.0 A B C D E Products liability 11 50 14.6 F L G H Space hull & liability 6 46 9.0 I Notes: 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted at a rate of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency rate of exchange changes may increase or reduce the sterling limits.
K 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda Ltd. 3 Premiums are stated net of acquisition costs.
J A Australia 2% The airline account is exposed to large claims arising from property B Caribbean 3% C Central America 1% damage, death or injury arising from aircraft accident.
The domicile of the D Europe 1% airline and passengers has a notable influence on the cost of claims as E Japan 4% F Other 1% US court awards are generally higher.
The general aviation book covers G South Africa 1% smaller aircraft or cargo and covers owner or operators against loss or H South America 1% I UK 5% damage and third party injury.
J USA 50% K Western Europe excluding UK 4% L 27% Worldwide Marine, Satellite etc Airport liability insurance covers airport operators, refuellers and air traffic controllers against losses arising from injury caused by their activities, or occurring on the premises of, the assured.
Product liability covers 2006 manufacturers against accidents arising from faulty parts or equipment, Gross Current 2006 or poor servicing of aircraft.
Both airport and product liability coverage is premium maximum Average written on a losses occurring basis meaning that claims advices can be written line size line size made after the policy has expired.
Space insurance covers property and $m $m $m liability during launch and the operation of satellites whilst in orbit for a Catastrophe reinsurance 136 75 6.0 limited period of normally one year.
Per risk property reinsurance 31 12.5 2.6 Proportional reinsurance 44 7.5 1.0 The aviation account is subject to both small and large claims.
Claims Accident & health 1 7.5 2.6 involving loss of life or serious injury to high earning passengers or third Aviation reinsurance 1 20 2.5 parties are subject to the ongoing inflation of court awards particularly in Marine reinsurance 3 20 6.0 the United States.
Large accidents involving the potential death of 500 or Special risks 10 15 5.0 so passengers are feasible and could result in a gross claim to the Syndicate 2001 whole account QS 121 division of more than $200 million before reinsurance if, for example, two Syndicate 2001 variable QS 53 major airlines were to collide.
Space losses are generally one off large Syndicate 2001 catastrophe reinsurance 12 amounts caused by launch failure or operational failure in orbit.
In 2006 Amlin Bermudas business has strong similarities to the reinsurance portfolio of the Non-Marine Division of Syndicate 2001.
All of the business written emanates from London broker markets and is frequently seasoned business already underwritten by Syndicate 2001.
Necessary balance is provided by a whole account quota share of Syndicate 2001.
This is further supplemented by a number of specific variable quota share treaties on short tail classes such as property and energy.
These are utilised by Syndicate 2001 underwriters on an individual risk basis when deemed appropriate.
Amlin Bermuda supplied Syndicate 2001 with short term catastrophe reinsurance to alleviate pressure in peak zones while the Syndicates reinsurance negotiations were taking place.
This maximised capital utilization while not unduly over-exposing an Amlin Bermuda that was still very much in the process of building its portfolio.
These reinsurance contracts expired on 30 June 2006.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 85 Risk Disclosures Property reinsurance is written through treaty arrangements on a The combined claims to the Syndicate from several losses which proportional, individual risk excess of loss, or catastrophe excess of loss aggregate in a single catastrophe event are protected by catastrophe basis.
The catastrophe reinsurance portfolio is a key aspect of the cover.
A separate XL on XL programme may be purchased to protect the insurance risk written by Amlin Bermuda.
Exposures to each programme XL reinsurance portfolio against such losses.
The Syndicate may also are currently limited to $12.5 million per risk and $75 million any one purchase multi-class umbrella protection which responds to a catastrophe catastrophe programme, with maximum event limits of $250 million any loss which could exceed any of the specific programmes bought for one zone and $300 million for losses affecting more than one zone.
aviation, property or XL reinsurance losses.
However, since 2006, the level of XL reinsurance purchased is significantly lower and covers only very Catastrophe event exposures per territory are carefully recorded and large events, and no multi-class umbrella protection has been purchased.
analysed through loss simulations or realistic disaster scenarios.
Amlin Bermuda is exposed to the impact of large catastrophe events such as There is no guarantee that reinsurance coverage will be available to meet windstorms, earthquakes or terrorist incidents.
Exposure to such events all potential loss circumstances as, for very severe catastrophe losses, is controlled and measured through loss modelling but the accuracy of it is possible that the full extent of the cover bought is not sufficient.
Any this exposure analysis is limited by the quality of data and the loss amount which exceeds the programme would be retained by the effectiveness of the modelling.
The Groups broad risk appetite guidelines Syndicate.
It is also possible that a dispute could arise with a reinsurer are set out below.
It is possible that a catastrophe event exceeds the which reduces the recovery made.
The reinsurance programme is bought maximum expected event loss.
This is particularly the case for the direct to cover the expected claims arising on the original portfolio.
However it property proportion of the loss exposure, which Amlin Bermuda would is possible for there to be a mismatch or a gap in cover which would receive through the whole account and specific variable quota shares, result in a higher than expected retained loss.
where models are used to calculate a damage factor representing the amount of damage expected to exposed aggregate insured values.
Many parts of the programme also have limited reinstatements and Errors or incorrect assumptions in the damage factor calculation can therefore the number of claims which may be recovered from second or result in an incurred catastrophe event higher than predicted due to subsequent major losses is limited.
It is possible for the programme to be unforeseen circumstances.
A significant element of the Amlin Bermuda exhausted by a series of losses in one annual period and it may not be book is catastrophe reinsurance relating to US windstorm however a possible to purchase additional reinsurance at an acceptable price.
This severe catastrophe to a major economic zone in Europe, Japan or the would result in the Group bearing higher losses from further events USA is likely to result in an overall loss to the property portfolio.
It should also be noted that the renewal date of the reinsurance programmes does not necessarily correspond to that of the business The accident and health class is written through medical expense written.
Where business is not protected by risk attaching reinsurance, schemes in the US and provides personal accident reinsurance which provides coverage for the duration of the policies written, this worldwide.
Personal accident reinsurance could be impacted by a single reinsurance protection could expire resulting in an increase in possible loss or series of accidents to high value insured individuals or from a multiple retained by the Syndicate if renewal of the programme is not achieved.
death and injury event such as an air crash or natural catastrophe.
Amlin Bermuda is presently not protected by any reinsurance programme The special risks account includes small premium classes mostly relating although the Company may decide to purchase reinsurance in the future.
to terrorism reinsurance but also includes nuclear and contingency which is written in all parts of the world.
Realistic Disaster Scenario RDS analysis The Group has a defined event risk appetite which determines the The Bermuda subsidiary writes risks without the protection of a maximum net loss that the Group intends to limit its exposure to major reinsurance programme and therefore has higher net retained exposures catastrophe event scenarios.
Currently these are a maximum of 200 to individual risk losses than the Syndicate currently bears.
million for Syndicate 2001 and $250 million any one zone or $300 million for a multi-zonal loss for Amlin Bermuda Ltd.
Reinsurance arrangements The Syndicate purchases proportional reinsurance to supplement line size These maximum losses are expected only to be incurred in extreme events and facilitate cover to reduce exposure on individual risks.
A part of the with an estimated occurrence probability of less than 1 in 100 years for premium ceded under such facilities is placed with Amlin Bermuda and a the natural peril or elemental losses.
The Group also adopts risk appetite separate proportional facility currently is placed for the US catastrophe XL maximum net limits for a number of other scenarios including aviation portfolio.
The Syndicate also purchases a number of excess of loss collision 140 million and North Sea rig loss 100 million.
reinsurances to protect itself from severe frequency or size of losses.
The structure of the programme and type of protection bought will vary from The risk appetite policy recognises that there may be circumstances in year to year depending on the availability and price of cover.
which the net event limit could be exceeded.
Such circumstances include non renewal or delay in renewal of reinsurance protection, reinsurance On large risks individual facultative reinsurance may be bought which security failure, or regulatory and legal requirements.
protects against a loss to that specific risk.
A detailed analysis of catastrophe exposures is carried out every quarter Specific risk excess of loss reinsurance is purchased for each class of and measured against the risk appetite.
The following assumptions and business.
The amount of cover bought depends upon the line size written procedures are used in the process: for each class.
For instance, unlimited cover is bought for our UK motor portfolio where unlimited third party cover is given on original policies.
The The data used reflects the information supplied to the Group by deductibles or amounts borne prior to recovery vary from class to class insureds and ceding companies.
This may prove to be inaccurate or as do the amounts of co-reinsurance or unplaced protection.
Specific could develop during the policy period.
programmes are purchased to deal with large individual risk losses such as a fire or large energy loss and these programmes may be combined at a higher level into a general programme for larger losses.
86 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 The exposures are modelled using a mixture of stochastic models and To assist with the process of determining the reserves, triangulation underwriter input to arrive at damage factors these factors are then statistics for each class are produced which show the historical applied to the assumed aggregate exposure to produce gross loss development of premium, as well as paid and incurred losses, for each estimates.
The damage factors may prove to be inadequate.
underwriting year, from inception to the date of review.
Each class triangulation is also independently analysed by the internal actuarial team The reinsurance programme as purchased is applied a provision for using actuarial software as appropriate.
The aim of the actuarial exercise reinsurer counterparty failure is included but may prove to be inadequate.
is to produce best estimate ultimate premium and claims amounts Reinstatement premiums both payable and receivable are included.
which can be compared to the figures proposed by divisional management.
Meetings are held in which executive management, There is no guarantee that the assumptions and techniques deployed in actuarial staff and business management discuss claims issues and calculating these event loss estimate figures are accurate.
Furthermore analyse the proposed and independently generated reserves to conclude there could also be an unmodelled loss which exceeds these figures.
The the provision to be carried.
These provisions are also reviewed annually likelihood of such a catastrophe is considered to be remote but the most by external actuaries who examine the work carried out and opine on severe scenarios modelled are simulated events and these simulations the sufficiency of reserves.
could prove to be unreliable.
Areas of uncertainty Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets The reserves established can be more or less than adequate to meet Calculation of IBNR and claims development eventual claims arising.
The level of uncertainty varies significantly from Amlin adopts a consistent process in the calculation of an adequate class to class but can arise from inadequate case reserves for known provision for insurance claim liabilities.
The overriding aim is to establish large losses and catastrophes or from inadequate provision for IBNR.
reserves which are expected to be at least adequate and that there is The impact on profit before tax of a 1% variation in the total net claims consistency from year to year.
Therefore the level of reserves are set at a reserves would be 11 million 2005: 11 million.
level above the actuarial best estimate position.
However, there is a risk that, due to unforeseen circumstances, the reserves carried are not Large loss case reserves are determined through careful analysis of the sufficient to meet insurance claim liabilities reported in future years on individual claim, often with the advice of legal advisers.
Liability claims policy periods which have expired.
arising from events such as the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States is an example of a case where there continues to be Process and methodology some uncertainty over the eventual value of claims.
The reserving process commences with the proper recording and reporting of claims information which is made up of paid and notified or Property catastrophe claims such as earthquake or hurricane losses can outstanding claims.
For our London Market business information is take several months or years to develop as adjusters visit damaged received through Xchanging the London Market bureau and, in the case property and agree claim valuations.
Until all the claims are settled it of our UK commercial business and service companies, directly from requires an analysis of the area damaged, contracts exposed and the policyholders.
Claims records are maintained for each class by the use of models to simulate the loss against the portfolio of exposure in underwriting year to which the policy incepts.
For notified or outstanding order to arrive at an estimate of ultimate loss to the Company.
There is claims a case reserve is established based on the views of underwriting uncertainty over the adequacy of information and modelling of major management and claims managers, using external legal or expert advice losses for a period of several months after a catastrophe loss.
This reserve is expected to be sufficient to meet the should also be taken of factors which may influence the size of claims claim payment when it is finally determined.
For some classes of such as increased inflation or a change in law.
business, particularly liability business, settlement may be several years after the initial notification of the claim, as it may be subject to The long tail liability classes, for which a large IBNR has to be complexities or court action.
Underwriters and claims staff are established, represent the most difficult classes to reserve because responsible for setting case reserves for outstanding claims.
For claims claims are notified and settled several years after the expiry of the policy received from Xchanging, the market reserve is generally set by the concerned.
This is particularly the case for US liability written on a losses leading underwriter but there are circumstances on larger claims where occurring basis.
Amlin will post higher or lower case reserves than those notified.
These cases are explained and discussed in reserving review.
The use of historical development data adjusted for known changes to wordings or the claims environment is fundamental to reserving these To establish a provision for incurred but not reported IBNR claims, the classes.
It is used in conjunction with the advice of lawyers and third underwriting and claims teams use their experience and knowledge of party claims adjusters on material single claims.
the class of business to estimate the potential future development of each class for every year of account.
The development period varies by The allocation of IBNR to the reinsurance programme is an uncertain class, by method of acceptance and is also determined by the deductible exercise as there is no knowledge of the size or number of future claims of each policy written.
For casualty business the policy form will advices.
The assumption over future reinsurance recoveries may be determine whether claims can be made on a claims made as advised incorrect and unforeseen disputes could arise which would reduce or as a losses occurring determined by date of loss basis.
significant impact on the reporting period in which claims can be notified.
In setting the IBNR provision estimates are made for the ultimate In the course of reserving the businesses provide a reserve for future premium and ultimate gross claims value for each underwriting year.
events occurring to the existing portfolio.
These provisions are removed in Allowance is then made for anticipated reinsurance recoveries to reach order to reflect GAAP accounting practice.
Reinsurance recoveries are calculated for outstanding and IBNR claims sometimes through the use of historical recovery rates and provisions are made as appropriate for bad debt or possible disputes.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 87 Risk Disclosures Dynamic Financial Analysis DFA modelling of risk The result reproduced below represents the modelled loss sustained by To improve our risk management capability, and our assessment of the business from a single 1 in 200 bad year i. e. at the 0.5 percentile.
capital requirements, Amlin has developed a stochastic model to analyse This probability is the calculation benchmark required by the FSA and the potential performance of the underwriting businesses.
However it does not represent the level of capital required for from the model includes a distribution of outcomes from reserves for prior Amlin to support current and expected business levels, which should be written liabilities, investment performance and new business underwriting considered over a longer period of modelling.
The result is a combined view of the expected best required to carry larger levels of capital which are sufficient in the eyes of estimate mean result and the range of possibilities around it.
The analysis rating agencies and clients.
This is modelling for a single years outcome quoted below concentrates on underwriting assets and liabilities and thus only.
As explained above Group corporate assets are excluded from the excludes the investment performance of corporate assets.
The model requires the input of a large number of explicit parameters.
All figures in m based on 2007 business plan forecast Those inputs are based on many different sources of information including detailed historical data on premiums and claims, forecast Risk class after diversification income and exposures, estimated rating levels and catastrophe loss data Underwriting new business risk 327 from proprietary models applied to Amlins portfolio.
It enables projectionReserving 18 of an estimated mean ultimate loss ratio and the distribution of results Credit reinsurance counterparty risk 33 around it.
The model explicitly recognises diversification credit since class Investment market risk 55 results are not all strongly correlated and thus individual classes are Diversified result 323 unlikely to all produce losses or profits in the same year.
Due to the inherent uncertainty of predicting the key drivers of business Notes: performance, including in particular claims levels, individual runs of the 1.
Excluding any additional capital provision for operational risk.
model cannot be relied upon to accurately forecast outcomes.
No dividend or tax is considered.
the output from many thousands of simulated results can provide a 3.
Currency risk is not modelled explicitly.
picture of the possible distribution of insurance business results.
Non sterling amounts have been converted at Lloyds required rates, including for output is useful in developing an understanding of the losses which may US Dollars $1.77 to 1.0. be borne by the business at various levels of profitability.
The strength of correlation between Amlin Bermuda and Syndicate 2001 has been estimated subjectively.
There are a large number of uncertainties and difficulties in achieving accurate results from the model.
Some of the key issues are: 6.
These figures are based on work for the September 2006 ICA submission and thus include the previously projected year end asset and liability position.
The model is based on business plan volume and rate expectations 7.
Investment income does not include group corporate assets.
which may not be borne out in practice.
Within reserving risk no credit is taken for investment returns generated on assets A significant change in the portfolio of business could result in the past backing the insurance liabilities i. e. there is no discounting.
Therefore the not being a reliable guide to the future.
investment risk evaluation is shown as a positive, since, given the nature of assets held, even at the 1 to 200 level the modelled investment return is greater than zero.
Changing external environmental factors may not be assessed accurately.
The potential for model error is significant in such a complex and developing discipline.
Key assumptions over levels of correlation between classes may over time prove to be incorrect.
Catastrophe model inputs, which estimate the severity and frequency of large catastrophes on the portfolio, may be incorrect.
Amlin Bermuda commenced underwriting late in 2005.
As a result, the risk profile is changing in line with the growth of the business.
The current assumptions as to the performance of the corresponding Syndicate 2001 classes of business have therefore been used as a proxy for the Amlin Bermuda portfolio.
88 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 Premium Development The table below illustrates the development of the estimate of gross written premium and gross earned premium for Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Bermuda Ltd after the end of the underwriting year, illustrating how amounts estimated have changed from the first estimate made.
Non-sterling balances have been converted to 2006 exchange rates to aid comparability.
Gross written premium 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Underwriting Year m m m m m m At end of underwriting year 668.4 812.0 944.0 924.5 937.3 1,146.6 One year later 632.0 851.4 944.3 932.4 943.1 Two years later 646.2 827.4 947.2 939.2 Three years later 651.9 826.9 948.7 Four years later 653.6 828.5 Five years later 656.1 Ultimate gross written premium 656.1 828.5 948.7 940.4 971.7 1,250.8 Gross earned premium 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Underwriting Year m m m m m m At end of underwriting year 333.2 412.5 504.6 469.9 483.7 624.9 One year later 597.0 813.0 898.5 886.5 901.4 Two years later 646.2 827.4 947.2 939.2 Three years later 651.9 826.9 948.7 Four years later 653.6 828.5 Five years later 656.1 Claims Development The table below illustrates the development of the estimate of cumulative claims for Syndicate 2001 after the end of the underwriting year, illustrating how amounts estimated have changed from the first estimate made.
Financial investment risk disclosures The investment process is led by the risk tolerance, which is determined The following section describes Amlins investment risk management from by the underwriting cycle and the requirements of the capital providers.
In a hard underwriting market capital preservation is paramount in order to support the insurance business and, therefore, the risk tolerance for The Group has two main categories of assets both of which have to be the corporate assets will be low.
Conversely, the risk tolerance for the invested in accordance with the regulations applicable to where the policyholders funds under these circumstances will be relatively high due underwriting business is being written.
The asset categories are as follows: to the strong cash flows.
In a soft underwriting market the opposite applies.
Policyholders funds Strategic benchmarks These are the premiums received and held to meet future insurance The strategic benchmarks form part of the investment frameworks and claims.
For the London operations these are referred to as syndicate set the neutral asset allocation for each category of assets.
For Bermuda they are referred to as underwriting assets.
operations the expected timescale for future claims in each currency is calculated by our Group Actuarial team.
These durations form the basis for Corporate assets the strategic benchmarks for the policyholders funds against which the These are the capital required by the regulators to support the assets are invested.
Due to the nascent nature of the Bermudian operations underwriting business plus working capital or surplus funds.
Currently the policyholders funds are currently all held in money market funds.
Londons corporate assets are predominantly charged to the Corporation The strategic benchmarks for corporate assets for both London and of Lloyds to support the underwriting in that market.
Unlike the 1 Bermuda are set by using a Value at Risk VaR model, to determine the policyholders funds the corporate assets do not have specific current optimum asset allocation for the current risk tolerance and to ensure that liabilities attached to them.
appropriate solvency levels are maintained.
In both cases the investment Risk management frameworks provide tactical ranges around these strategic benchmarks to Investment frameworks provide sufficient flexibility to ensure that the appropriate risk reward Amlin manages its investments in accordance with investment balance is maintained in changing investment markets.
Tactical asset frameworks that are set by the Boards of Amlin plc and its subsidiaries.
allocation changes are made by moving funds to and from the relevant These frameworks determine investment policy and the management of specialist fund managers.
They are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that the Boards fiduciary and regulatory responsibilities are being met.
The Boards delegate responsibility for the management of the investments to the Investment Management Executive and the Investment Advisory Panel.
The Investment Management Executive comprises the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Underwriting Director and Chief Investment Officer.
They meet monthly to determine investment tactics to ensure that asset allocation is appropriate for current market conditions and is in accordance with the investment frameworks.
The Investment Management Executive appoints and monitors the external Investment Managers as well as monitoring the custodians that are responsible for the safekeeping of the assets.
The Investment Advisory Panel, which consists of external investment professionals as well as members of the Investment Management Executive, meets quarterly.
The Panel has been delegated responsibility to monitor and critique investment strategy and tactics.
In addition Group Compliance provides advice on investment regulations.
92 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 Asset allocation The asset allocation at the year end is shown below.
31 December 2006 31 December 2005 London Bermuda London Bermuda Syndicate Corporate Underwriting Corporate Total Syndicate Corporate Corporate Total m m m m m m m m m Equities 209.3 39.0 248.3 116.2 116.2 Bonds 1,167.2 183.2 338.0 1,688.4 1,038.0 104.1 1,142.1 Property 43.1 43.1 Other liquid investments 58.5 84.9 111.8 158.4 413.6 171.9 130.2 583.4 885.5 Total 1,268.8 477.4 111.8 535.4 2,393.4 1,209.9 350.5 583.4 2,143.8 The analysis in this section is for investments which Amlin has direct responsibility for and does not include corporate assets of 5.1m bonds and 2.4m other liquid investments which relate to spread syndicate exposure see note 16.
The assets in the table above include 16.7 million accrued income which is shown separately in the notes to the accounts.
1 VaR is a statistical measure, which calculates the possible loss over a year, in normal market conditions.
As VaR estimates are based on historical market data this should not be viewed as an absolute gauge of the level of risk to the investments.
A breakdown of the asset classes as at the 31 December 2006 is given below.
Investment management 2 Specialist external investment managers are used to manage each asset class on a segregated, pooled or commingled basis.
The Overseas Deposits are managed by the Corporation of Lloyds in commingled funds.
Otherwise manager selection is based on a range of criteria that leads to the expectation that the managers will add value to the funds.
Investment guidelines are set for each manager to ensure that they comply with the investment frameworks.
The Managers have discretion to manage the funds on a day-to-day basis within these guidelines.
The managers are monitored on an ongoing basis and are reviewed periodically using Watson Wyatt Investment Consulting.
2 Segregated funds are managed separately for Amlin.
Pooled funds are collective investment vehicles in which Amlin and other investors purchase units.
Commingled funds combine the assets of several clients.
The managers as at 31 December 2006 were as follows: Manager Asset class Segregated funds Aberdeen Asset Management US dollar bonds AEGON Asset Management Sterling bonds Insight Investement Management Sterling bonds Morley Fund Management Property manager of managers Robeco Investment Management US and Canadian dollar bonds Taube Hodson Stonex Partners Global equities Western Asset Management US dollar and Euro bonds Pooled vehicles Barclays Global Investors Sterling, Euro and US dollar money market funds Goldman Sachs Asset Management Sterling, Euro and US dollar money market funds HSBC Asset Management US dollar money market funds Insight Investment Management Sterling money market fund JP Morgan Asset Management US dollar money market funds PIMCO High alpha sterling and US dollar bonds Western Asset Management US dollar money market fund Commingled funds Corporation of Lloyds Treasury Services US dollar, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, South African and Japanese bonds Union Bank of Switzerland Canadian and US dollar liquid funds The funds under management with each manager as at 31 December 2006 is shown below: Corporation Goldman Aberdeen AEGON BGI of Lloyds Sachs HSBC Insight JP Morgan Morley PIMCO THS UBS Robeco Western m m m m m m m m m m m m m m Syndicate Sterling 22.0 366.7 43.0 50.1 Euros US dollars 0.1 27.7 6.4 383.5 75.9 Canadian dollars 5.9 4.7 35.1 236.6 Corporate Sterling 158.1 68.5 0.4 238.2 Euros 0.2 US dollars 3.3 Bermuda Sterling 20.5 Euros 7.1 US Dollars 312.7 129.6 46.7 48.3 25.8 53.8 Total 312.7 158.1 72.1 55.6 157.2 46.7 367.1 48.3 43.0 75.9 292.0 11.1 418.6 312.5 % 13.2 6.7 3.0 2.3 6.6 2.0 15.5 2.0 1.8 3.2 12.3 0.5 17.7 13.2 Average for year or period of investment if less than one year 315.5 151.9 126.7 53.2 214.6 133.4 451.7 100.6 24.4 76.3 230.8 9.9 428.4 254.0 31 December 2005 183.3 51.9 367.1 216.3 283.7 110.8 8.6 342.2 200.8 94 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 Fair value Amlin London sets the duration of its policyholders assets by setting the All investments are marked to market.
Prices are obtained by the investment duration ranges of its bond portfolios with reference to the duration of the managers and custodians using recognised market sources.
checked by Amlin for reasonableness by using Bloomberg data feeds.
The duration of the bond and cash portfolios as at 31 December 2006 Valuation risk was as follows: Amlins earnings are directly affected by changes in the valuations of the 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 investments held in the portfolios.
These valuations vary according to the Assets Liablities Assets Liabilities Policyholders assets Years Years Years Years movements in the underlying markets.
Factors affecting markets include London changes in the economic and political environment, risk appetites, Sterling 2.4 2.5 2.2 2.5 interest rates and exchange rates.
These factors have an impact on all US dollars 3.0 3.1 2.8 3.1 Amlins investments and are taken into consideration when setting Euro 3.3 3.0 2.5 3.0 strategic benchmarks and tactical asset allocation.
The impact of interest Canadian dollars 3.0 3.2 2.1 3.2 rates and exchange rates are discussed in more detail below.
Bermuda The price of holdings can also vary due to specific risks, such as the Sterling 0.0 corporate strategy and companies balance sheet structure, which may US dollars 0.0 impact the value of individual equity and corporate bond holdings.
This is Euro 0.0 mitigated by holding diversified portfolios, as specified in the investment guidelines given to the fund managers.
These limit the exposure to any Due to the short-tail nature of much of the underwriting portfolio this one company.
In addition the equity mandate limits the exposure to any means that the duration of the assets is at the shorter end of the yield one geographic region or industrial sector.
Cash is raised, or the duration of the portfolio reduced, if it is believed that yields may rise, and therefore capital values fall.
If the value of Amlins equity portfolio was to fall by 10% the impact on the overall assets as at 31 December 2006, pre-tax, would be a decline of 24.8 million.
Interest rates 3 Investors expectations for interest rates will impact bond yields.
The value of Amlins bond holdings is therefore subject to fluctuation as bond yields rise and fall.
If the yield falls the capital value will rise, and vice versa.
4 The sensitivity of the price of a bond is indicated by its duration.
The greater the duration of a security, the greater its price volatility.
Typically the longer the maturity of a bond the greater its duration.
The maturity bands of the Groups bond holdings at 31 December 2006 are shown below.
There are no direct bond holdings in the Bermudian underwriting assets.
The calculation is based on the coupon rate, length of time to maturity and the market price.
It assumes coupon interest paid over the life of the security is reinvested at the same rate.
4 The duration is the weighted average maturity of the securitys cash flows, where the present values of the cash flows serve as the weights.
5 This assumes a parallel shift in the yield curve.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 95 Risk Disclosures Liquidity As Amlin reports its financial statements in sterling it is subject to foreign Liquidity in the event of a major disaster is tested regularly using internal exchange risk due to the impact of changes in the sterling US dollar cash flow forecasts and realistic disaster scenarios.
In addition, the exchange rate on the converted sterling value of Bermudas dollar net policyholders funds investment guidelines require at least 25% of the assets.
As this exchange rate impact is purely translational the exposure funds to be held in government bonds and or cash equivalents, which is not currently hedged.
As discussed above, the corporate assets are not matched to liabilities.
However, if a major insurance event occurs the Further foreign exchange risk arises until non-sterling profits are converted investment strategy is reviewed to ensure that sufficient liquidity is also into sterling.
It is Amlin Group policy to mitigate foreign exchange risk by available in the corporate funds.
systematically converting its syndicate non-sterling profits into sterling.
Given the inherent volatility in some business classes a cautious approach Cash flow is adopted on the speed and level of sales, but we seek to extinguish all It is important to ensure that claims are paid as they fall due.
Levels of currency risk on earned profit during the second year after the cash are therefore managed on a daily basis.
Buffers of liquid assets are commencement of each underwriting year.
The intention is to time the also held in excess of the immediate requirements.
The policy of limiting currency transactions in order to optimise the conversion rates.
This the extent of duration divergence between the policyholders assets and approach is part of Amlins risk management strategy as it avoids the the liabilities helps to reduce the risk of a cash flow mismatch.
inherent dangers of lumpier sales.
It is not the intention to take speculative currency positions in order to make currency gains.
A summary of the Foreign exchange sales for 2006 is shown in the table below.
Currently policyholders assets are held in the base currencies of sterling, US dollar Euro Canadian dollar Euros, US dollars and Canadian dollars, which represent the majority of Total Average Total Average Total Average the Groups liabilities by currency.
millions rate millions rate millions rate 31 December 2006 73 1.92 21 1.45 9 2.07 However, as the sales for each year of account are spread over the time period up to its close it is open the cumulative average rates achieved as Foreign exchange exposure also arises when business is written in at the 31 December 2006 for the 2004 year of account, to be distributed non-base currencies.
These transactions are converted into sterling or to the Group in 2007 were: US dollars 1.86, euros 1.45 and Canadian US dollars depending on whether the business is written out of London dollars 2.19. or Bermuda at the prevailing spot rate once the premium is received.
Consequently there is exposure to currency movements between the Amlin will occasionally transact currencies on a forward basis.
These are exposure being written and the premium being converted.
Payments in carried out with well rated banks, so as to limit counterparty risk.
The non-base currencies are converted back into the underlying currency at transactions are not designed as specific hedges and therefore realised the time a claim is to be settled: therefore Amlin is exposed to exchange and unrealised gains and losses are recorded in the profit and loss rate risk between the claim being made and the settlement being paid.
account of the period in which they occur.
As at 31 December 2006 Amlin had no direct forward contracts outstanding.
The investment Other managers did hold some forward foreign exchange contracts in their Amlins investments are subject to credit risk as discussed below, but portfolios at the year end in order to hedge non-base currency otherwise no other investment risks were identified as at 31 December investments.
These are marked to market in their valuations.
96 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 c. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group becomes exposed to loss if a counterparty fails to perform its contractual obligations, including failure to perform them in a timely manner.
Credit risk could therefore have an impact upon the Groups ability to meet its claims as they fall due.
Credit risk can also arise from underlying causes that have an impact upon the creditworthiness of all counterparties of a particular description or geographical location.
Amlin is exposed to credit risk in its investment portfolio and with its premium and reinsurance debtors.
As well as actual failure of a counterparty to perform its contractual obligations, the price of corporate bond holdings will be affected by investors perception of a borrowers ability to perform these duties in a timely manner.
Credit risk within the investment funds is managed through the credit research carried out by the investment managers.
The investment guidelines are designed to mitigate credit risk by ensuring diversification of the holdings.
For each portfolio there are limits to the exposure to single issuers and to the total amount that can be held in each credit quality rating category, as determined by reference to credit rating agencies.
The credit risk in respect of reinsurance debtors is primarily managed by review and approval of reinsurance security, by the Groups Reinsurance Security Committee, prior to the purchase of the reinsurance contract.
Guidelines are set, and monitored, that restrict the purchase of reinsurance security based on Standard & Poors ratings and the Groups own ratings for each reinsurer.
Provisions are made against the amounts due from certain reinsurers, depending on the age of the debt and the current rating assigned to the reinsurer.
The impact on profit before tax of 1% variation in the total reinsurance debtors would be 4.2 million.
The table below shows the breakdown at 31 December 2006 of the exposure of the bond portfolio and reinsurance debtors by credit quality.
The table also shows the total value of premium debtors, representing amounts due from policy holders.
The quality of these debtors is not graded, but based on historical experience there is limited default risk relating to these amounts.
The reinsurance debtors represent the amounts due at 31 December 2006 as well as amounts expected to be recovered on unpaid outstanding claims including IBNR in respect of earned and unearned risks.
Reinsurance debtors are stated net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts.
