Accounting policies Summary of significant accounting policies The effects of the change in accounting policy on the consolidated The basis of preparation, basis of consolidation principles and significant income statement and balance sheet are: accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Amlin plcs the Groups 12 months 12 months financial statements are set out below.
2006 2005 m m Basis of preparation Reported profit for the period under These consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with previous accounting policy after tax 264.2 137.4 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the Payments made included within other European Union EU.
The financial statements comply with Article 4 of operating expenses 4.6 4.6 the EU IAS regulation.
Movement in discount on present value of future payments 0.3 0.5 The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis Movement in deferred tax 1.3 1.3 except for financial investments, share options and pension assets and Restated profit for the period under new liabilities which are measured at their fair value.
accounting policy after tax 267.8 1 0.2 The accounting policies adopted in preparing these financial statements 31 December are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Groups 2005 annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 with Notes m the exception of IAS19, Employee Benefits IAS19.
Further details of the Net assets as reported 792.6 impact of the change in accounting policy can be found below.
Increase in retirement benefit liabilities 11.1 Increase in associated deferred tax asset 12 3.3 Basis of consolidation Restated net assets 784.8 The financial statements consolidate the accounts of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, including the Groups underwriting through The cumulative effect of the change in accounting policy on the net participation on Lloyds syndicates.
Subsidiaries are those entities in assets of the Group on accounting periods to 31 December 2004 is a which the Group directly or indirectly has the power to govern the reduction of 10.6m in total shareholders equity.
operating and financial policies in order to gain economic benefits and includes the Groups Employee Benefit Trusts.
The financial statements of The impact of the change in accounting policy as detailed on earnings subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent and diluted earnings per share are as follows: company.
Consolidation adjustments are made to convert subsidiary accounts prepared under UK GAAP into IFRS so as to remove any 2006 2005 different accounting policies that may exist.
Subsidiaries are consolidated Basic earnings per share under previous from the date control is transferred to the Group and cease to be accounting policies 49.7p 33.6p consolidated from the date control is transferred out.
All inter-company Basic earnings per share 50.4p 34.3p balances, profits and transactions are eliminated.
Diluted earnings per share under previous Details of material subsidiaries included within the consolidated Financial accounting policies 49.1p 33.1p Statements can be found in note 37 to the parent company accounts.
Diluted earnings per share 49.8p 33.7p IAS19, Employee Benefits: change in accounting policy and prior International Financial Reporting Standards period adjustment At the date of authorisation of these financial statements a number of The Group participates in a number of pension schemes, full details of standards had been published by the IASB but were not yet effective.
which are provided within note 25, Retirement benefit obligations.
One of These include: the schemes in which the Group participates, the Lloyds Superannuation Fund the Fund, is a defined benefit scheme which is classified as a IFRS 7, Financial Instruments Disclosures: and multi-employer scheme under the criteria set out in IAS19.
As such, the IFRS 8, Operating Segments Group recognises its pension costs for this scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
Historically, the implication of this has been that the Other interpretations issued by the IASB at the date of authorisation Group did not report the assets and liabilities of the Fund in its own include: balance sheet, but did charge contributions made to the Fund in the period in which they were made.
IFRIC 8, which clarifies IFRS 2, Share-Based Payments: IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives: In December 2004 an amendment was introduced to IAS19 that requires IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment: full provision to be made for the net present value of any future IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions: and contractual contributions into a multi-employer pension scheme.
This IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements amendment is now mandatory and has been fully adopted by the Group.
In 2004, Amlin agreed with the Funds trustee a schedule of annual The directors anticipate that the adoption of IFRS7 and IFRS8 in future payments into the Fund commencing in 2004 and concluding in 2009. periods and the interpretations IFRIC 8 to 12 will have no material impact Previously, these payments were being expensed as they were paid and on the financial statements except for additional disclosures.
were not provided for in advance.
However, in accordance with the requirements of the amendment to IAS19, a prior period adjustment has In accordance with the standard for insurance contracts IFRS4, the been made to the net assets at 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2005 Group has applied existing accounting practices for insurance contracts, and the reported profit for the year ended 31 December 2005. modified, as appropriate, to comply with the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 77 Accounting policies Use of estimates earned.
Deferred acquisition costs are reviewed at the end of each The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and reporting period and are written off where they are no longer considered assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, to be recoverable.
and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events Reinsurance premium ceded and actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
Reinsurance premium ceded comprise the cost of reinsurance arrangements placed and are accounted for in the same accounting Foreign currency translation period as the related insurance contracts.
The provision for reinsurers The Group presents its accounts in sterling since it is subject to regulation share of unearned premium represents that part of reinsurance premium in the United Kingdom and the net assets, liabilities and income of the written which is estimated to be earned in following financial years.
Group are currently weighted towards sterling.
US dollar revenue is significant but the sterling revenue stream is also currently material.
All Insurance contracts liabilities: claims Group entities are incorporated in the United Kingdom with the exception Claims paid are defined as those claims transactions settled up to the of Amlin Bermuda Holdings Limited and Amlin Bermuda Ltd which are balance sheet date including the internal and external claims settlement incorporated in Bermuda.
All Group entities conduct business in a range expenses allocated to those transactions.
The reinsurers share of economic environments, primarily the United Kingdom, United States of represents recoveries received from reinsurance protections in the period America and Europe.
Due to the regulatory environment and the fact that plus recoveries receivable against claims paid that have not been the Group trades through the Lloyds market, all Group companies received at the balance sheet date, net of any provision for bad debt.
incorporated in the United Kingdom have adopted sterling as their functional currency.
The Group companies incorporated in Bermuda have Claims reserves are estimated on an undiscounted basis.
Provisions are adopted the US dollar as their functional currency.
subject to a detailed quarterly review where forecast future cash flows and existing amounts provided are reviewed and reassessed.
Any Income and expenditure in US dollars, Euros and Canadian dollars is changes to the amounts held are adjusted through the income translated at average rates of exchange for the period.
Provisions are established above an actuarial best estimate denominated in other foreign currencies are translated using the and so that there is a reasonable chance of release of reserves from one exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary underwriting year to the next.
assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are Claims reserves are made for known or anticipated liabilities under translated at the average rate prevailing in the period in which the asset insurance contracts which have not been settled up to the balance sheet or liability first arose.
Included within the provision is an allowance for the future costs of settling those claims.
This is estimated based on past experience and Exchange differences arising from the conversion of overseas operations current expectations of future cost levels.
are accounted for through reserves.
The claims provision also includes, where necessary, a reserve for Where contracts to sell currency have been entered into prior to the year unexpired risks where, at the balance sheet date, the estimated costs of end, the contracted rates have been used.
Differences arising on the future claims and related deferred acquisition costs are expected to translation of foreign currency amounts on such items are included in exceed the unearned premium provision.
In determining the need for an other operating expenses.
unexpired risk provision the underwriting divisions within the Group have been regarded as groups of business that are managed together.
Insurance contracts premium Gross written premium comprise premium on insurance contracts incepting Although the claims provision is considered to be reasonable, having during the financial year.
The estimated premium income in respect of regard to previous claims experience including the use of certain facility contracts is deemed to be written in full at the inception of the statistically based projections and case by case reviews of notified contract.
Premium is disclosed before the deduction of brokerage and losses, on the basis of information available at the date of determining the taxes or duties levied on them.
Estimates are included for premium provision, the ultimate liabilities will vary as a result of subsequent receivable after the period end but not yet notified, as well as adjustments information and events.
This uncertainty is discussed further in the risk made in the year to premium written in prior accounting periods.
Premium is earned over the policy contract period.
Where the incidence of Net investment income risk is the same throughout the contract, the earned element is calculated Dividends and any related tax credits are recognised as income on the separately for each contract on a 365ths basis.
For premium written under date the related listed investments are marked ex-dividend.
Other facilities, such as under binding authorities, the earned element is calculated investment income, interest receivable, expenses and interest payable are based on the estimated risk profile of the individual contracts involved.
recognised on an accruals basis.
The proportion of written premium, gross of commission payable, Intangible assets attributable to periods after the balance sheet date is deferred as a i.
Syndicate capacity provision for unearned premium.
The change in this provision is taken to The cost of syndicate participations which have been purchased in the the income statement in order that revenue is recognised over the period Lloyds capacity auctions is capitalised at cost.
Syndicate capacity is of the risk.
considered to have an indefinite life and is not subject to an annual amortisation charge.
The continuing value of the capacity is reviewed for Acquisition costs comprise brokerage incurred on insurance contracts impairment annually by reference to the expected future profit streams to written during the financial year.
They are incurred on the same basis as be earned from Syndicate 2001, with any impairment in value being the earned proportions of the premium they relate to.
Deferred acquisition charged to the income statement.
costs are amortised over the period in which the related revenues are 78 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 ii.
Goodwill Borrowings Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January 1999 was written off to Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs reserves.
Goodwill recognised between 1 January 1999 and the date of incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the transition to IFRS 1 January 2004 was capitalised and amortised on a effective interest method.
Any difference between amortised cost and the straight line basis over its estimated useful life.
Following the transition to redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period IFRS this goodwill is stated at net book value at 1 January 2004. of the borrowings.
Transaction costs on borrowings are charged through Goodwill that was recognised subsequent to 1 January 2004, the income statement over the period of the borrowings.
representing the excess of the purchase consideration over fair value of net assets acquired, is capitalised.
Goodwill is tested for impairment Borrowing costs annually or when events or changes in circumstance indicate that it might Borrowing costs comprise interest payable on loans and bank overdrafts be impaired by comparing the net present value of the future earnings and commissions charged for the utilisation of letters of credit.
These stream from the acquired subsidiary, for the next five years, against the costs are charged to the income statement as financing costs, as carrying value of the goodwill and the carrying value of the related net incurred.
In addition fees paid for the arrangement of debt and letter of assets.
credit facilities are charged to borrowing costs over the life of the facility.
Property and equipment Cash and cash equivalents Property and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
depreciation and provision for impairment where appropriate.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents Depreciation is calculated on the straight line method to write down the comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks and other cost of such assets to their residual values over their estimated useful short-term, highly liquid investments which are subject to insignificant risk lives as follows: of change in fair value.
Leasehold land and buildings over period of lease Treasury shares Motor vehicles 33% per annum Treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised Computer equipment 33% per annum on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the treasury shares.
Any Furniture, fixtures and leasehold improvements 20% per annum consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity.
The carrying values of property and equipment are reviewed for Leases impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate that the Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease carrying value may be impaired.
If any such condition exists, the transfer substantially all the risks and rewards to the Group.
All other recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the leases are classified as operating leases.
extent of impairment and the difference is charged to the income statement.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase transactions are Gains and losses on disposal of property and equipment are determined capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated over their useful lives.
by reference to their carrying amount and are taken to the income The initial capital value is the lower of the fair value of the leased asset statement.
Repairs and renewals are charged to the income statement and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Payments under when the expenditure is incurred.
finance leases are apportioned between finance charges and the reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a consistent rate of Financial investments interest on the remaining balance of the lease liability.
The Group has classified its financial investments as fair value through income FV to the extent that they are not reported as cash and cash Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income in the equivalents.
This classification has been determined by management period in which they become payable in accordance with the terms of the based on the decision at the time of acquisition.
Within the FV category, lease.
fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as trading as the Group buys with the intention to resell.
All other securities are classified as other Employee benefits than trading within the FV category.
Pension obligations The Group participates in a number of pension schemes, including two Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade date, defined benefit schemes, defined contribution schemes and personal which is the date the Group commits to purchase or sell the assets.
These are initially recognised at fair value, and subsequently re-measured at fair value based on quoted bid prices.
Changes in the fair value of The liability in respect of the J E Mumford Underwriting Agencies Limited investments are included in the income statement in the period in which defined benefit scheme is calculated as the present value of the defined they arise.
benefit obligation at the balance sheet date minus the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by In the Companys accounts, other financial investments in Group independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The undertakings are stated at cost and are reviewed for impairment annually present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by the or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of government may be impaired.
securities which have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related liability.
The resulting pension scheme surplus or deficit appears Loans and receivables as an asset or liability in the consolidated balance sheet.
Actuarial gains Loans and receivables are measured at fair value.
Appropriate allowances and losses arising from revaluations are recognised in full in the income for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income statement, as they arise.
statement when there is evidence that the asset is impaired.
These are reversed when payment is received.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 79 Accounting policies The Lloyds Superannuation Scheme is treated as a multi-employer Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in scheme where insufficient information is available to account as a defined the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
For this scheme, where contractual obligations have is charged or credited to profit or loss, except when it relates to items been agreed, the net present value of these payments is recognised as a charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is liability on the balance sheet.
also dealt with in equity.
Pension contributions to schemes that are accounted for as defined Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally contribution plans are charged to the income statement when due.
enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation ii.
Equity compensation plans authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities The Group operates a number of executive and employee share on a net basis.
Deferred tax and liabilities have not been discounted.
Options issued after 7 November 2002 are accounted for using the fair value method where the cost for providing equity compensation is Deferred tax is provided for on the profits of overseas subsidiaries where based on the fair value of the share option or award at the date of the it is reasonably foreseeable that distribution of the profit back to the UK grant.
The fair value is calculated using an option pricing model and the will take place.
corresponding expense is recognised in the income statement over the vesting period.
The accrual for this charge is recognised in equity shareholders funds.
When the options are exercised, the proceeds received net of any transaction costs are credited to share capital for the par value and the surplus to share premium.
Other benefits Other employee incentive schemes and long-term service awards, including sabbatical leave, are recognised when they accrue to employees.
A provision is made for the estimated liability for long-service leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the balance sheet date.
Other income Information fee income is recognised on an earned basis.
Taxation Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years or that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered, or to the extent that it has been utilised.
