A Aviva plc viva plc Other information continued A Annual Report and Accounts 2006 nnual Report and Accounts 2006 246 Shareholder services Managing your shareholding: The Companys Register of members is maintained by the Companys Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Shareholders who have any queries in respect of their shareholding should refer to them via the contact details provided below.
In addition to assisting with general queries the Registrar can also help with the following: Amalgamating different share accounts If shareholders received more than one copy of this Annual Report, it could be because there is more than one record for the shareholder on the share register.
To ensure that duplicate mailings are avoided the Registrar can arrange for accounts to be amalgamated.
Dividend payments direct to your bank account As an alternative to having dividends paid by cheque, shareholders can, if they wish, have them credited directly into their bank or building society account on the dividend payment date.
Having the dividend paid directly into their bank account offers shareholders the benets of avoiding the risk of cheques being lost in the post, and is more convenient as payment is credited automatically on the payment date.
The tax voucher is sent to the shareholders registered address as usual.
Shareholders wishing to set up a dividend mandate can do so on the Companys website www.
For overseas shareholders, a TAPS Transcontinental Automated Payment Service is available, which allows shareholders in many countries to have dividends credited direct to their bank accounts in local currencies.
Consolidated Tax Vouchers Private shareholders who currently receive dividends paid directly into their bank or building society account receive one consolidated tax voucher each year instead of a voucher with each dividend payment, unless they request otherwise.
Scrip Dividend The Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme the Scheme provides shareholders with the opportunity to receive their dividends in the form of new ordinary shares in the Company instead of cash.
Shareholders who have not joined the Scheme but wish to do so should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars and request a mandate form.
The completed mandate form will need to be received by Lloyds TSB Registrars no later than 18 April 2007 in order to be effective for the 2006 final dividend.
Further details are included on the Companys website www.
A range of shareholder frequently asked questions and practical help on transferring shares and updating details is available online at www.
Annual General Meeting The 2007 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS on Thursday, 26 April 2007 at 11.00am.
The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the business to be conducted at the Meeting, is being circulated to shareholders with this Annual Report, and can also be viewed on the Companys website www.
Share dealing The Company has arranged the following services that can be used to buy or sell Aviva shares.
Alternatively, if shareholders hold a share certicate they can also use any bank, building society or stockbroker offering share dealing facilities to sell their shares.
Shareholders in any doubt about buying or selling their shares should seek professional financial advice.
Share dealing facilities for UK shareholders share account members You can buy or sell shares via the internet or by telephone through Shareview Dealing, a share dealing service provided by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
For internet purchases and sales log on to www.
co. uk dealing and for telephone purchases and sales call 0870 850 0852 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
All 0870 numbers are charged at national rates, and are only available if you are calling from the UK.
Lloyds TSB Registrars is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, registered number 119278.
To buy or sell shares over the telephone, shareholders can contact Barclays Stockbrokers on 0870 549 3002 for shareholders with a share certicate or 0870 549 3001 for shareholders with a share account statement.
To check instructions and maintain high quality service standards, Barclays Stockbrokers may record and monitor calls.
New Business Development hours are 8.00am and 6.00pm Monday to Friday, excluding Bank Holidays.
Barclays Stockbrokers is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, registered number 124247.
NatWest Stockbrokers provide a Share Dealing Service either over the telephone or at certain NatWest branches for Aviva Share Account holders only.
For more information contact NatWest Stockbrokers on 0845 122 0689.
NatWest Stockbrokers Limited NWS is a member of the London Stock Exchange and PLUS.
NWS is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, registered number 124395.
Registered Ofce: Waterhouse Square, 138-142 Holborn, London EC1N 2TH.
NWS is operated by a joint venture between The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and The Toronto-Dominion Bank.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 247 Share dealing facilities for overseas shareholders To sell Aviva shares over the telephone, shareholders can contact Barclays Stockbrokers on 44 0 141 352 3959.
Non-UK residents will need to provide various documentation in order to use this service and details will be provided on registration.
Please note that regulations prevent this service from being offered to US, Canadian and Australian residents.
Settlement proceeds will be sent to either a UK sterling bank account or by sterling cheque.
ShareGift The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a purely voluntary charity share donation scheme for shareholders who wish to dispose of small numbers of shares when the dealing costs or minimum fee makes it uneconomical to sell them.
Details of the scheme are available from ShareGift at www.
org or can be obtained from the Companys Registrar.
Share price Shareholders can access the current share price of Aviva plc ordinary shares at www.
com or alternatively can call 0906 843 2197.
Calls are currently charged at 60 pence per minute at all times.
The average time to access the share price is approximately one minute.
Shareholder information Shareholder prole The categories of ordinary shareholders and the range and size of shareholdings as at 31 December 2006 are set out below: Analysis of shareholders No.
of shares % 1 1,000 605,297 92.73 161,544,158 6.29 1,001 5,000 42,844 6.56 77,809,156 3.03 5,001 10,000 2,126 0.33 14,545,784 0.57 10,001 250,000 1,841 0.28 100,615,743 3.92 250,001 500,000 186 0.03 66,136,616 2.58 500,001 and above 469 0.07 2,145,101,974 83.61 Total 652,763 100 2,565,753,431 100 Group financial calendar for 2007 Announcement of first quarter long-term savings new business gures 24 April Annual General Meeting 26 April Announcement of unaudited six months interim results 9 August Announcement of third quarter long-term savings new business gures 25 October Ordinary shares Ex-dividend date 7 March Record date 9 March Scrip dividend price available 14 March Dividend payment date 17 May Preference shares 3 First dividend payment for 8 8% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 31 March 3 First dividend payment for 8 4% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 30 June 3 Second dividend payment for 8 8% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 30 September 3 Second dividend payment for 8 4% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 31 December Aviva plc Other information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 248 Shareholder services continued Useful contact details Detailed below are the contact details that shareholders may nd useful if they have a query in respect of their shareholding.
Please quote Aviva plc, as well as the name and address in which the shares are held, in all correspondence.
If you have a shareholder reference, please have this available as well.
General shareholding, Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway 0870 600 3952 administration queries www.
co. uk Worthing and Aviva share account queries e-mail: aviva@lloydstsb-registrars.
co. uk West Sussex BN99 6DA Corporate and single company Peps Barclays Stockbrokers Limited Tay House 0870 514 3263 www.
co. uk 300 Bath Street Glasgow G2 4LH Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway 0870 242 4244 ISA Manager Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Internet sites Aviva owns various internet sites, most of which interlink with each other.
com UK long-term savings and general insurance www.
com Aviva worldwide internet sites www.
com websites Aviva plc Registered Ofce: St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ Telephone 44 0 20 7283 2000 www.
com Registered in England Number: 2468686 Alternative versions of this publication including braille, large print and audio-tape are available on request from the Registrar.
Overview 2 Structure and performance 6 Chairmans statement 8 Group chief executives statement Business review 12 Basis of preparation 13 Group strategy 16 Key performance indicators 18 Group performance 22 Business unit overview 24 UK 32 Europe 42 International and Morley 50 Finance 62 Employees and responsibility Governance 72 Board of directors 74 Directors report 77 Corporate governance report 82 Audit committee report 84 Nomination committee report 85 Risk and regulatory committee report 86 Corporate social responsibility committee report 87 Directors remuneration report 101 Independent auditors report Financial statements 104 Accounting policies 119 Consolidated cash flow statement 114 Consolidated income statement 120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 115 Pro forma reconciliation of Group operating profit 211 Financial statements of the Company to profit before tax 219 Independent auditors report to the directors of 117 Consolidated statement of recognised income Aviva plc on the alternative method of reporting and expense long-term business profits 117 Reconciliation of movements in consolidated 220 Alternative method of reporting long-term shareholders equity business profits 118 Consolidated balance sheet Other information 244 Aviva Group of companies 246 Shareholder services At Aviva, we find new ways to deliver more fulfilling futures to our customers, and all our stakeholders.
Forward thinking has been our business for 300 years.
We are committed to caring for the environment and looking Today, it expresses our dedication to thinking beyond the immediate and the for sustainable ways to minimise our impact on it.
everyday, to building better tomorrows.
This year our annual report and accounts has been printed by Burlington.
We choose Burlington because not only do they have Forward thinking is at the heart of our business.
It guides our daily actions, the important environmental certification by SGS for the FSC standards, but also they take innovative steps to minimise their encourages us to look past what limits us now, and determines the steps that impact on the environment even further.
A great example of this is where they plan to use naturally cooled water from their well to will carry us beyond those limits, tomorrow.
supply the existing air conditioning system.
Within this report, you will find examples of forward thinking in action.
Based in Foxton in Cambridgeshire, Burlington are a privately Around the world, Aviva is a market leader in developing innovative new owned business employing over 100 local people, as a rural employer they play a significant part in supporting the community.
products and services as we seek to anticipate what people need and provide Also we take care to minimise the impact on the environment in solutions.
TM the paper we use, the paper we have used, 9lives 55, is produced using 55% recycled fibre from both preand post consumer Our vision of the future extends to recognising our responsibilities to society.
sources using an elemental chlorine free process and the remaining We know that we must limit our impact on the environment in which we virgin fibre using a totally chlorine free process.
The virgin fibre is sourced from well managed forests.
The paper is FSC certified and operate, for the benefit of future generations.
manufactured at an ISO 14001 accredited mill.
Richard Harvey FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
This ensures Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar using the paperless Group chief executive there is an audited chain of custody from the tree proofing system RingMaster.
in the well managed forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
Board photography by Chris Moyse.
Portrait photography by ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an Arnhel fide Serra.
environmental management system against which an organisation can be credited by a third party.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Aviva plc Aviva plc St Helens, 1 Undershaft London EC3P 3DQ Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Contents Telephone 44 0 20 7283 2000 www.
com Registered in England Number 2468686 Aviva plc Annual Review 2006 At Aviva, we find new ways to deliver more fulfilling futures to our customers, and all our stakeholders.
Today, it expresses our dedication to thinking beyond the immediate and the everyday, to building better tomorrows.
Forward thinking is at the heart of our business.
It guides our daily actions, encourages us to look past what limits us now, and determines the steps that will carry us beyond those limits, tomorrow.
Within this review, you will find examples of forward thinking in action.
Around the world, Aviva is a market leader in developing innovative new products and services as we seek to anticipate what people need and provide solutions.
Our vision of the future extends to recognising our responsibilities to society.
We know that we must limit our impact on the environment in which we operate, for the benefit of future generations.
Richard Harvey Group chief executive Dee Caffari A new racing challenge Record-breaking yachtswoman Dee Caffari, supported by Aviva, is the first woman in history to sail single-handed, non-stop, around the world against the prevailing winds and currents.
Not content with one extraordinary record, she now plans to become the first woman to sail solo, non-stop around the world in both directions by competing in the gruelling 2008-09 Vende Globe.
The inspiration and willpower that Dee embodied in completing the Aviva Challenge in May 2006 an epic, 178-day journey the wrong way around the world was a masterclass in skill, guts and determination.
She said: When I was sailing against the winds deep in the Southern Ocean, when the storms seemed endless and the horrific conditions forced me into survival mode, I moved my goalposts closer and focused on getting to the next step, so I constantly felt I was making progress towards the finish line.
Avivas support helped me to discover and define my own future in life, and helped me do my own forward thinking.
Aviva is a company that helps you take control of your own destiny.
Aviva is proud of its continuing partnership with Dee.
She is determined to push back the boundaries of her sport and inspires others to do the same in their own lives.
Her sustained focus on the future and looking ahead to fresh challenges epitomises our Forward thinking campaign.
You can find out more about Dee Caffaris U challenges at www.
com Contents 2 Structure and performance 4 Chairmans statement 6 Group chief executives statement 8 United Kingdom 10 Europe 12 International and Morley 14 Finance 16 Employees and responsibility 18 Board of directors 20 Summary financial statements 25 Shareholder services and information Structure and performance Aviva plc Structure and performance Annual Review 2006 2 Aviva is the worlds fifth largest insurance group and the largest insurance services provider in the UK.
We are one of the leading providers of life and pension products in Europe and are actively growing our long-term savings businesses in Asian markets, Australia and the USA.
Our main activities are long-term savings, fund management and general insurance.
We have premium income and investment sales of 41.5 billion and 364 billion of assets under management.
We have 59,000 employees serving over 40 million customers.
UK Europe International and Morley Total sales Total sales Total sales 19,541m 17,018m 4,905m 2005: 16,472m 2005: 15,581m 2005: 3,841m PVNBP 11,146m PVNBP 12,840m PVNBP 1,866m Investment sales 2,455m Investment sales 891m Investment sales 1,564m Net written premiums 5,940m Net written premiums 3,287m Net written premiums 1,475m 19,541m 17,018m 4,905m Main operations Main operations Main operations Geographic presence Geographic presence France Singapore Ireland Hong Kong Italy India Netherlands China Poland Russia Spain Australia Lithuania USA Turkey Canada Hungary Sri Lanka Czech Republic Romania p8-9 p10-11 p12-13 Read more about our performance and future direction Read more about our performance and future direction Read more about our performance and future direction on pages 8 to 9 of this report on pages 10 to 11 of this report on pages 12 to 13 of this report Typically includes motor, household, creditor, health, commercial motor, commercial property and commercial liability insurance.
Present value of new business premium PVNBP is equal to total single premium sales received in the year plus the discounted value of annual premiums expected to be received over the term of new contracts, and is expressed at the point of sale.
Structure and performance Aviva plc Annual Review 2006 3 Strengths and highlights We have a balanced portfolio that benefits from diversification of distribution, products and geography We have achieved strong growth in sales and profits across our worldwide portfolio of businesses We have completed the purchase of AmerUs in the United States, giving us greater access to the worlds largest savings market We have commenced significant new bancassurance partnerships in Ireland with Allied Irish Banks and in India with Centurion Bank of Punjab Our European and International businesses have announced their confidence in achieving average annual sales growth of at least 10% over the next five years, while growing profits at least as quickly We outlined plans to deliver 250 million of annualised cost savings by the end of 2007 across our UK businesses, at a one-off cost of 250 million The integration of RAC was completed on time and we met our 2006 cost saving targets IFRS profit before tax attributable # to shareholders EEV operating profit Return on equity shareholders funds 2,977m 3,245m 13.1% 2005: 2,528m 2005: 2,904m 2005: 15.0% 3,000 4,000 15.0 3,000 2,000 10.0 2,000 1,000 5.0 1,000 0 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2004 2005 2006 2004 2005 2006 Worldwide sales Full year dividend Equity shareholders funds 41.5bn 30.00p 17.5bn 2005: 35.9bn 2005: 27.27p 2005: 14.9bn 50.0 30.00 20.0 40.0 15.0 20.00 30.0 10.0 20.0 10.00 5.0 10.0 0 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2004 2005 2006 2004 2005 2006 Our growth ambition is an annual average growth after minority interests and before acquisitions, from 2006 to 2010 inclusive, and assuming no major changes in economic conditions.
New business contribution after required capital, tax and minority interest.
From continuing operations, including long-term savings result on a European Embedded Value EEV basis before adjusting items.
# Return based on opening equity shareholders funds on an EEV basis.
From continuing operations, including share of associates premiums.
m bn Pence m % bn Chairmans statement Aviva plc Chairmans statement Annual Review 2006 4 Dear Shareholder, As I come to the end of my first year as chairman of Aviva, I am delighted to be able to report on a thriving business.
We have made progress towards our stated aim of providing prosperity and peace of mind for our customers.
Our record financial results are proof that we are in the right markets, at the right time, and are providing the products and services that our customers want.
During the year, we completed the purchase of AmerUs in the US, giving us greater access to the worlds largest savings and capital market.
Our challenge is now to integrate and grow this business quickly and to demonstrate the value that we believe it brings to our Group.
We also completed major new bancassurance partnerships in Ireland with Allied Irish Banks and in India with Centurion Bank of Punjab.
Already, we are seeing strong performances from both partnerships.
In March, we approached the board of Prudential plc with a proposal to merge our respective companies on an agreed basis.
The proposal set out the significant commercial benefits and value-creation potential of the merger.
The board of Prudential plc declined to enter into discussions with us and the proposal was consequently withdrawn.
External view Across the world, the need for individuals to provide adequately for their retirement is being recognised as an increasingly important issue.
The situation is particularly severe in Western countries where an ageing population is placing a greater strain on national purses and we are shortly to see the retirement of the baby boomer generation.
Additionally, people in rapidly developing countries such as China and India are starting to pick up the savings habit.
These conditions present a sizeable opportunity for us, and we are fully committed to working with customers, governments, the insurance industry and regulatory bodies to provide innovative and practical solutions.
Richard Harvey In January 2007, Richard Harvey announced his intention to retire as our group chief executive and to move on to other charitable and business challenges.
Richard is a class act by anyones standards.
He has led the Group through numerous challenges and merger activity with professionalism, skill, and foresight.
He has made a lasting impression on Aviva and on the wider international insurance industry.
I wish him an enjoyable and relaxing break when he leaves us in July, and great success with whatever he chooses to do next.
Furthermore, I am delighted that Andrew Moss, our group finance director has agreed to succeed Richard.
Andrew has an extensive knowledge of the insurance industry and a strong track record in international financial services.
I am looking forward to working with him as he leads Aviva through its next phase of growth.
Legal reforms I have recently been involved with the development of the Companies Act 2006 and its progress through Parliament in the UK.
The Bill is one of the largest ever to be passed and is a significant step towards a far-reaching reform of UK company law.
It clarifies the requirements being placed on public companies and pushes them to consider further their internal governance and their social and economic impacts.
I strongly support the reforms and am certain that Aviva is in excellent shape to handle the upcoming changes.
Dividend I am pleased to announce that our recommended final ordinary dividend is 19.18 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 30.00 pence, an increase of 10% against last year 2005: 27.27 pence.
This increase reflects our intention to increase the dividend on a basis judged prudent, while retaining capital to support future business growth, using dividend cover on an IFRS operating earnings after tax basis in the 1.5 to 2.0 times range as a guide.
Chairmans statement Aviva plc Annual Review 2006 5 Board developments During 2006, we held the first meetings of the newly formed risk and regulatory committee and corporate social responsibility committee.
The board remains committed to maintaining the highest levels of governance and compliance particularly in light of the increasing demands in this area.
We are also keenly aware of the need to develop our business to be sustainable and responsive to the needs of customers, staff and the wider community.
Both committees will provide clear leadership and give the board oversight of the work we are doing in these areas.
In September, we met in India, and combined the meeting with visits to some of our key sites there and in Sri Lanka.
It is important that, as a board, we speak directly to people in our business, and see first-hand the exciting developments that are going on.
This particular visit gave us a valuable insight into one of the fastest-growing insurance markets in the world, and the excellent work being performed by our people.
Employees I would like to thank our employees for their hard work and commitment in helping to deliver an excellent set of results.
This admirable performance comes against the backdrop of the reduction in the number of UK staff we announced as part of our cost-efficiency programme.
During 2006, we made progress in aligning the remuneration of our senior management with the needs of employees and customers.
For the first time this year, an element of senior management pay and bonuses will be dependent on employee engagement and customer satisfaction measures, helping to acknowledge that the longer term performance of Aviva depends on motivated staff and satisfied customers.
It was very pleasing to see that Aviva has been recognised as one of the top 50 best places for women to work in the UK, according to The Times.
Particularly satisfying for me was that we were the only company to be named in each of the assessed categories, emphasising our progressive approach.
Recognition We have earned awards in a large number of our businesses across Europe, Asia and North America.
The recognition has come in areas such as product innovation, sustainability, fund performance, diversity, customer satisfaction, media campaigns and many more.
The sheer breadth of this recognition demonstrates to me that across the group we are performing to a high level and pushing ourselves to be the best.
Outlook We are in a great position and our businesses around the world are performing strongly.
We have a diverse geographic spread and multiple product types and distribution channels in our core markets.
This balance, particularly the split between long-term savings and general insurance, is a significant advantage as it allows us to be flexible and to fund organic growth internally.
When allied to the external market environment and the increasing need for higher retirement savings, it is clear that we have a significant opportunity ahead of us.
2006 has been a year of considerable progress and I fully expect these positive trends to continue through 2007.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Chairman Group chief executives statement Aviva plc Group chief executives statement Annual Review 2006 6 Dear Shareholder, It has been a good year for Aviva.
During 2006 we produced our best ever set of financial results and we ended the year in a strong position to continue our good progress.
This success was achieved while completing the integration of RAC in the UK and the purchase of AmerUs in the US.
AmerUs represents a significant move for us, creating a dynamic and thriving business with greater access to the largest savings market in the world.
Im delighted to welcome Tom Godlasky and his team to Aviva.
Our priority is to integrate AmerUs quickly with our existing US business, achieving our projected cost savings and enhancing the profile of Aviva in the US.
Exceptional growth in the UK In the UK, we have generated exceptional growth in our long-term savings business.
Total sales increased by 31% to over 13 billion, helped by strong pension sales resulting from changes brought about by pension simplification following A-Day in April.
We have increased our share of a market that is itself growing very strongly.
In October, we communicated our plans for the UK long-term business to analysts and investors.
Our focus is on developing the business to exploit new market opportunities, continuing to improve service, rationalising our cost base, simplifying our legacy systems and managing the retention of existing customers.
We also announced annual cost savings across both the long-term savings and general insurance businesses of 250 million by 2008, at a cost of 250 million.
These cost savings will mean a reduction of 4,000 in our UK headcount, although we will seek to minimise the number of compulsory redundancies through natural staff turnover and voluntary measures.
Our UK general insurance and health businesses produced a strong result, proving again that we are able to produce sustainable returns from this business.
During the year, we completed the integration of RAC and the disposal of its non-core subsidiaries.
Continued international expansion Our international businesses continue to grow and develop.
To recognise the increasingly diverse and complex nature of these businesses, I asked Tidjane Thiam to take responsibility for continental Europe.
This allowed Philip Scott to focus on our rapidly developing businesses across North America and the Asia-Pacific region during 2006.
Our confidence in our international businesses was highlighted by our announcement that we expect to achieve double-digit sales growth over the next five years, while growing new business contribution at least as quickly.
During 2006, we saw strong sales from our new bancassurance partnership with Allied Irish Banks in Ireland and continuing rapid expansion in Asia.
This growth demonstrates our commitment to the continued development of our distribution capacity and our ability to deliver results from new opportunities.
Forward thinking We continue to make progress as a forward thinking company.
It is vital that we dont see this as simply a slogan, it has to be fundamental to the way we operate.
It means positioning ourselves for tomorrows opportunities, anticipating our customers aspirations and finding ways that lead to exceptional performance and customer service from our people.
Forward thinking also means helping our customers to think about and plan for their future.
Two developments that take us a step further down that road are websites devoted to financial planning.
We created and are supporting a website called www.
org, which focuses on retirement planning.
In the UK, Norwich Union has launched a make sense of it website to help people understand investments and to highlight the benefits of taking professional advice.
If we are to achieve our growth plans, it is important for us to have a strong brand to support us.
Weve made great progress in building the Aviva brand this year.
The Forward thinking campaign has been hugely successful in raising our brand profile with our target audience this year and we will continue to invest in it over the next three years.
Growth ambitions are annual averages after minority interests, before acquisitions, and assuming no major changes in economic conditions.
Group chief executives statement Aviva plc Annual Review 2006 7 Financial results Our pre-tax operating profit of 3,245 million 2005: 2,904 million reflects continued strong operational performances from our portfolio of businesses and the success of our proven strategy.
Our return on equity shareholders funds was 13.1% 2005: 15.0%.
On an IFRS basis, the group operating profit before tax was 3,110 million 2005: 2,128 million.
The group delivered an overall profit before tax attributable to shareholders of 2,977 million 2005: 2,528 million.
Retirement In January, I announced my intention to retire in July this year.
Im proud to have had the opportunity to help create a leading company in the global insurance industry.
With almost ten years as group chief executive under my belt, there are other dimensions to my life and other things that I want to achieve in both international charity work and the business world.
Now is the right time for me to set out on those adventures while I have the energy and desire to make a difference.
I wish Andrew Moss and Philip Scott every success as they step into their new roles of group chief executive and group finance director, respectively.
Our people In September, we conducted our second global employee survey, and our first to cover all business units in the group.
The results of the survey are helping us to identify the differing needs of employees around the world, share examples of good practice and provide a fulfilling and supportive work environment.
We are a diverse organisation, something that I see as an important strength.
Diversity not only benefits individuals, it enriches our pool of talent, offers new ways of thinking and improves our understanding of customers.
Outlook We are continually working to get the right balance between risk, return and growth, and I think that this set of results shows that we are making excellent progress.
Managing risk against return is integral to everything that we do and will remain a consistent theme in 2007.
We continue to benefit from our diverse geography, distribution and product range and we actively use this balanced portfolio approach to manage away a significant proportion of risk.
In the stable and mature markets of the UK and continental Europe, I believe that access to distribution will be our key driver of growth.
We will seek to expand our bancassurance channel and significantly enhance our direct capability.
We see the capital generated by our general insurance and health businesses and our superior understanding of customer needs as key differentiators.
The rapidly developing markets in the Asia-Pacific region represent a substantial longer term area of growth for us.
We will be looking to accelerate our growth in India and China, while continuing to explore the potential of other markets.
Across the region, we will be working to expand distribution through bancassurance, independent financial advisers and the direct sales force.
In North America, the AmerUs acquisition provides us with a scalable platform for growth in what is the largest single market in the world.
Our focus is on successfully integrating AmerUs and achieving our projected costs savings.
I believe that we are in the right markets, at the right time.
We have produced an excellent set of results for 2006 and have put ourselves in a strong position to build on these results in 2007.
Richard Harvey Group chief executive O Un five itr e v d ieK w ingdom Aviva plc United Kingdom Annual Review 2006 8 Dear Shareholder, Any international insurer must be strong in its home market, and our decision to bring together the Norwich Union life and general insurance businesses, including RAC, at the beginning of 2006, has been a key step in meeting this requirement.
Norwich Union NU is a leader in the UK.
Every week we collect 360 million customer premiums, pay out 94 million in insurance claims, pay 100 million to pensioners and attend over 50,000 breakdowns.
Our financial performance this year once again shows our strength as a well-managed, disciplined composite insurance business.
Now that Norwich Unions business units operate more closely together, we are poised to deliver additional benefits that were not available before.
Our 17 million customers expect us to deal with them in a joined up way, and closer working will enable us to meet this challenge.
One example is bringing together our IT functions into one unit.
This has removed overlap and enabled us to move forward with a new infrastructure to meet the demands of our customers in the emerging e world.
We have already taken action to improve the efficiency of our UK business, following our announcement in September 2006 that we plan to deliver 250 million of annualised cost savings by the end of 2007.
This programme will enable us to strengthen our competitive position and take advantage of customer self-service.
2006 performance Our UK life business has taken advantage of both improving market sentiment and pensions A-Day in the UK.
Our focus has been on capturing our share of market growth, thanks to our unique combination of product range and broad distribution.
Our combined businesses delivered an exceptional performance, with operating profits of 1,813 million 2005: 1,571 million, and our general insurance business produced a combined operating ratio of 95% 2005: 96%.
Forward thinking 2007 will see us continue to place our customers at the very centre of everything we do, in particular by making Norwich Union easy to do business with.
This is already occurring following the launch of our make sense of it website in NU life, which gives customers sound and simple financial advice.
Our newly launched web-enabled fund centre offers comprehensive information for IFAs.
Our simplified life cover product, also launched in 2006 and sold over the web, makes it easier to take out life cover and so helps tackle underprovision in the UK.
Within our general insurance business, we launched our Pay As You Drive proposition in October, partly in response to growing concerns about how, when and where people drive.
Our aim is to bring down the cost of motoring and encourage safer driving, especially by young people at night time.
We believe Pay As You Drive will also encourage motorists to cut the number of miles they drive and help reduce carbon emissions.
In fact, Norwich Union is playing a leading role helping to mitigate the effects of global warming.
We are involved in a number of activities, from high profile lobbying the Government to further invest in flood defences, to customer marketing via our portfolio of ethical investments, to keeping our own house in order giving our employees assistance in buying bicycles.
Conclusion The actions we have taken in 2006 to extract value from the combined UK business will help us meet the challenge of intense competition in our markets, change and improve the ways we distribute our products to customers, and meet head on the threats and opportunities offered by new technology.
We still have plenty to do to reach our customer objectives, but through process improvement, investment in technology and sharing our expertise across the UK businesses, we will deliver further substantial improvements during 2007.
Our aim is to keep the promises we make to our customers and our shareholders, and to live up to our market leadership position in the UK.
Patrick Snowball Group executive director U Bu ns it in ed esK sir n eg vd ie o w m A Aviva plc viva plc A Annual Review 2006 nnual Review 2006 9 Contribution to group sales Total sales EEV operating profit 19,541m 1,813m 1 2005: 16,472m 2005: 1,571m 3 20,000 1,800 15,000 1,350 10,000 900 2 5,000 450 1 UK 2 Europe 0 0 3 International and Morley 2004 2005 2006 2004 2005 2006 Developments in 2006 Total UK sales increased to 19,541 million EEV operating profit was 1,813 million 2005: 2005: 16,472 million.
Life operating profit was We completed the integration of RAC, increased by 31% to over 13 billion, benefiting 744 million 2005: 589 million, benefiting meeting our 2006 cost saving commitments from strong pension and bond sales, and from increased new business contribution from We announced annualised cost savings of exceptional growth in investment sales.
Pension our higher long-term sales and higher expected 250 million across our UK life and general sales were boosted by pension simplification return from the opening embedded value.
These businesses by the end of 2007 A-Day.
General insurance and health sales were improvements were offset by adverse experience 5,940 million 2005: 6,127 million, reflecting variances.
Our general insurance operating profit We successfully implemented our pension our continued commitment to create value by increased to 1,075 million 2005: 974 million, simplification strategy, increasing long-term writing profitable business and a degree of reflecting our continued focus on writing sales by 31% while maintaining margins softening in commercial premium rates.
profitable business and lower than average weather-related claims.
i Norwich Union links i Team RAC goes green i Aviva launches Team RAC created history while taking part in the up with eBay to launch six-steps website 2006 British Touring Car Championship by becoming the first motor sport team to achieve a podium finish Avivas online financial education initiative, six-steps, online insurance hub using bio-fuels.
The UKs premier motor sport series was launched in November 2006.
The website, at accepts the use of the road fuel E85 85% renewable www.
org, is based around six simple steps Norwich Union joined eBay.
co. uk to launch a unique fuel bio-ethanol with 15% petrol, but no bio-ethanol that people can follow to help them take control online insurance centre exclusive to eBay users.
cars had previously won a podium finish in the of their finances and prepare for their retirement: eBays 15 million customers can use the central championship.
We recognise that alternative fuel 1.
Take control insurance hub to access information on Norwich issues are high on the social and corporate agenda 2.
Know yourself Unions motor, home and travel insurance offerings, both in terms of environmental protection and fossil 3.
Save little and often obtain quotes and buy insurance via a click-through fuel sustainability.
By demonstrating its use on the 4.
Invest for the future to Norwich Union Direct.
Plus, they can benefit from track we hope that other teams will recognise that 5.
Protect yourself, and Driveaways seven days free car insurance available the use of renewable fuel is viable in competition.
Get advice on eBay Motors.
Our wish is to see more teams and other motor The site features a retirement planner to help people This unique partnership, which brings together the sport championships switching to bio-fuels soon.
understand their financial position better.
Users can UKs largest insurer with the nations leading online fill it in and save it online, or they can print it out and marketplace, reflects our forward thinking strategy.
For more information on RAC visit take it to a financial adviser.
co. uk For more examples of Forward thinking Find more examples of Forward thinking U in our UK businesses visit U in our UK businesses visit www.
com forwardthinking Total sales represents the present value of new business premiums of our long-term business plus investment sales and net written premiums of our general insurance and health businesses.
EEV operating profit is calculated using long-term savings operating profit on an EEV basis.
General insurance and health operating profit is included on an IFRS basis.
All operating profit figures are stated before adjusting items.
m m Europe Aviva plc Europe Annual Review 2006 10 Dear Shareholder, Europe is, and will continue to be, one of the worlds main savings markets.
We have secured a unique operating platform on the continent and are in a prime position to capture the opportunities that changing demographics, increasing private wealth and stretched public finances will create to provide customers with our products and services.
Continental Europe now contributes 41% of the groups total sales and is a key source of growth and profits for Aviva.
We continued to grow at a healthy pace in 2006, increasing our total long-term sales by 8% to 14 billion.
Bancassurance is at the heart of our European strategy.
In 2006, we completed a new distribution agreement with AIB in Ireland and significantly expanded our distribution in Italy with UniCredit Group.
Elsewhere we have continued to work hard on increasing our penetration of the banks customer base and have made good progress in France and Spain.
Our Dutch operations have had a difficult year, largely as a result of increased competition in a number of markets and changing economic conditions.
Local management continue to seek out new sales opportunities and have taken action to improve efficiency and competitiveness through cost control.
In the emerging markets of Central and Eastern Europe, we have made good progress.
In Poland our long-term sales increased by 74% and profits by 19%.
We are leveraging our multi-channel distribution skills acquired in the more mature markets of Western Europe to accelerate the development of strong long-term businesses in Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania and Turkey.
Financial performance Benefiting from our highly diversified geography and distribution network, we achieved growth of profits and sales in 2006 reflecting good operational performances across our long-term, fund management and general insurance businesses.
Total operating profit was up to 1,634 million 2005: 1,558 million.
Our general insurance and health operations across Europe have once again delivered a strong performance, achieving a general insurance only COR of 89% 2005: 92%, therefore beating the group target of 98%.
Strategic developments Although the markets of continental Europe are highly competitive, we believe that they offer excellent growth opportunities to players who have the right skills and the right geographic spread.
We invest significant resources in research and development to stay ahead of our competition, and to understand our customers and our distribution partners better.
Access to our customers distribution is crucial to unlocking Europes growth potential.
Our primary focus is to sell more to our existing 18 million customers: therefore, penetration rates, cross-selling and up-selling have become part of the day-to-day vocabulary of all our European staff.
In Spain, for instance, working ever more closely with our banking partners, we have been able to more than double the proportion of the banks customers using our products and services over the past five years.
Organic growth is central to our strategy and critical to our success, yet we are also keen to capture value-creating opportunities to increase our distribution reach.
Finally, we will continue to invest in Central and Eastern Europe, which after Asia, is one of the fastest growing economic areas in the world.
These economies are expected to grow at double the rate of Western European economies.
As income and private wealth increase in these countries, we know that consumers will invest a significant proportion of their growing disposable income in the kind of products and services that we provide.
Our 2006 achievements in Poland and Hungary, to name just two countries, illustrate the kind of potential available in that region.
Outlook Our priority is to achieve strong, sustainable and profitable growth.
We will continue to work hard to increase the penetration rate of our existing customer base, to increase our distribution reach through new partnerships and to grow our presence in the emerging markets of Central and Eastern Europe.
I strongly believe that Europe will continue to make a major contribution to the success of Aviva, and that we will build further on our current strong position to become the leading insurance company in Europe.
Tidjane Thiam Chief Executive, Aviva Europe Europe Aviva plc Annual Review 2006 11 Contribution to group sales Total sales EEV operating profit 17,018m 1,634m 1 2005: 15,581m 2005: 1,558m 3 18,000 1,800 13,500 1,350 9,000 900 2 4,500 450 1 UK 2 Europe 3 International and Morley 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2004 2005 2006 Developments in 2006 Total European sales increased to 17,018 million EEV operating profit was 1,634 million 2005: 2005: 15,581 million.
Long-term savings sales 1,558 million in our European operations.
We commenced a major bancassurance increased by 8% to 13,731 million 2005: Life operating profit was 1,171 million 2005: partnership in Ireland with Allied Irish Banks 12,827 million, primarily reflecting increased 1,126 million.
The benefit of strong sales of Our sales through bancassurance grew strongly, sales in Ireland through Ark Life and in Italy, unit-linked products in France and increased new up 24% driven by greater access to bank branches business contribution in Italy and Poland was through our partnership with UniCredit Group.
offset by adverse operating assumption changes We gained access to additional UniCredit General insurance and health sales increased in Ireland and a lower contribution from new branches in Italy, generating a significant increase to 3,287 million 2005: 2,754 million, business sales in the Netherlands.
General in sales volumes benefiting from strong growth in the Netherlands insurance and health operating profit was We balanced profitability against sales volumes following the merging of public and private 417 million 2005: 390 million, reflecting in a challenging Dutch market healthcare provision.
growing sales, a favourable claims experience and the beneficial effect of prior year releases.
We focused on fund transfers in France that benefit ongoing profitability i France: Aviva Gestion i Hibernian Direct i Romania: Aviva staff dActifs wins top launches partnership build better tomorrows We volunteered to partner international aid agency investment awards with Vivas Health Habitat for Humanity to raise funds and build four new homes for families in Romania in one week.
In France, we won the prestigious Corbeille Long Hibernian Direct has linked up with health insurance A hundred volunteers from across Aviva Romania, Terme fide Mieux Vivre Award for our leading investment provider Vivas Health to provide private medical cover UK, Turkey, Hong Kong and USA travelled to Cluj position over five years.
The Corbeilles, awarded under the brand name Hibernian Health Insurance Plan.
Our contribution exceeded annually by the newspaper Mieux Vivre Votre Argent, The plan, launched in November 2006 on a pilot basis any previously achieved by Habitat for Humanity in are a leading benchmark in French asset management.
for six months, offers customers hospital cover, Romania, both in terms of the number of volunteers This accolade, repeating our success of 2003, along maternity benefits, out-patient benefits, accident and from one company, and in the total size of the project.
with the La Tribune S&P Golden Trophy award that emergency cover abroad and comprehensive cover for We are very proud of the employees involved and we won in 2004 and 2005, has reinforced Avivas scans.
The partnership enhances the range of products what they achieved.
This was in addition to the five gold that we can offer our customers in Ireland.
investment awards our investment team had already For more information on Avivas CSR won during 2006.
For more information on Hibernians healthcare U programmes visit www.
com csr U products please visit www.
ie For more information on Aviva Gestion dactifs U please visit www.
fr Total sales represents the present value of new business premiums of our long-term business plus investment sales and net written premiums of our general insurance and health businesses.
m m International and Morley Aviva plc International and Morley Annual Review 2006 12 Dear Shareholder, We have made great progress during the past year with our rapidly expanding businesses across the Asia-Pacific region and in North America.
The strong growth of profits and sales across the majority of our businesses demonstrates the effectiveness of our highly diversified distribution network and our ability to deliver results from new opportunities.
The purchase of AmerUs in the US has transformed our business in that country, giving us greater access to the worlds largest savings market.
AmerUs is a leader in the indexed market, ranking number one in sales of indexed life insurance and third in sales of indexed annuities.
The combined Aviva USA business is now the fourth-largest long-term savings operation in the Aviva group.
During 2006 we completed a major new bancassurance agreement in India with Centurion Bank of Punjab, and are already seeing a strong performance from this partnership.
Aviva India greatly strengthened its market presence, with nearly 200 branches across the country and over 30 bancassurance partnerships.
In February we acquired a 51% stake in Eagle Insurance, the third-largest insurer in Sri Lanka.
Through Eagle, we have entered into bancassurance agreements with National Development Bank and Standard Chartered Bank.
Our business in China is now licensed in 15 cities across six provinces.
We are on course to achieve our vision of 10% new business market share across ten cities by 2010.
We are ranked fifth among foreign joint venture insurance companies in China.
We received a licence to operate in Russia from March 2006, and plan to build a leadership position, with a 10% market share and a top-five position, within the next five years.
Our general insurance business in Canada has broadened its distribution and has introduced innovative products during 2006.
Our confidence in our International long-term savings businesses is highlighted by our expectation that, combined with our European businesses, we shall achieve double-digit organic sales growth over the next five years, while growing new business contribution at least as quickly.
We are also committed to meeting or beating the group COR target of 98%.
Strategic developments Customers in our key markets show an increasing appetite to save for the future.
They also want a choice of how to do business with us.
These market conditions present a sizeable opportunity, and we are fully committed to working with governments and business partners to satisfy our customers expectations.
We plan to grow our existing channels.
This includes the successful integration of AmerUs into Aviva USA, acceleration of our bancassurance and direct sales success in India and China, deepening our relationship with DBS in Singapore and Hong Kong, and delivery of additional corporate partnerships in Canada.
During 2006, Morley, our largest fund management business, agreed to establish a single investment sales team with our UK long-term savings business, Norwich Union.
This agreement will strengthen our presence in the retail and wholesale UK distribution channels.
Additionally, Morley acquired ORN Capital, a hedge fund manager, accelerating the development of our alternative investment business.
It is vital to the overall strength of the group that we have the capacity to offer customers investment products that meet their individual needs.
We intend to diversify our distribution network.
For example, we are exploring the development of our bancassurance business in the US by taking advantage of expertise gained elsewhere in the Aviva group and we are looking to develop the broker channel in China.
Outlook Through the acquisition of AmerUs we have created a dynamic and thriving business in the US.
The developing markets of the Asia-Pacific region and Russia represent a substantial long-term area of opportunity for us.
We shall be looking to accelerate growth through our strong market positions and key capabilities, notably diversified distribution and product innovation, while continuing to explore the potential of other markets.
Philip Scott Group executive director International and Morley Aviva plc Annual Review 2006 13 Contribution to group sales Total sales EEV operating profit 4,905m 362m 1 2005: 3,841m 2005: 319m 3 5,000 360 4,000 270 3,000 180 2,000 2 90 1,000 1 UK 2 Europe 0 0 3 International and Morley 2004 2005 2006 2004 2005 2006 Developments in 2006 Total International sales increased to EEV operating profit was 362 million 2005: 4,905 million 2005: 3,841 million.
Life operating profit was We completed the purchase of AmerUs in the US saving sales increased by 44% to 3,430 million 118 million 2005: 99 million, reflecting strong We commenced a major new bancassurance 2005: 2,411 million.
This growth reflects new business contribution and expected returns partnership in India with Centurion Bank of strong performances in Singapore, Hong Kong from AmerUs and the benefit of favourable Punjab and India, with sales across our Asian operations experience variances in Australia.
In Australia, we have seen substantial sales growth drove an increase in new We increased our presence in China and are now strong inflows into Navigator, our fund business contribution.
General insurance and licensed in six provinces with sales offices in a administration business.
Additionally, the total health operating profit was stable at 188 million further seven cities includes six weeks of sales of 324 million from 2005: 187 million.
The benefit of lower than We purchased Eagle Insurance in Sri Lanka and AmerUs, which we acquired in November 2006. average weather-related claims was offset by commenced two bancassurance partnerships General insurance and health sales were lower premium rates on commercial lines 1,475 million 2005: 1,430 million, reflecting business.
Morleys IRFS operating profit increased broadly stable market conditions in Canada.
to 76 million 2005: 49 million, reflecting increased fund management fee revenue and higher performance fees.
i Morley Awards: i Canada: 10% discount i Australia: Navigator Morley has enjoyed a year of awardwinning progress, for environmentally helps UK pensions move with expansion into Europe, innovative product launches and strong performance for our investors.
friendly drivers down under Our property team continues to be recognised by the In Canada, we reward policyholders in Quebec who Navigator, our online fund administration system, industry, winning property fund manager of the year at drive hybrid vehicles with an automatic 10% discount has improved the process involved in UK pension Property Week Awards 2006 and Property Investment on their Aviva auto policy premium.
Now, Australian residents with money in Manager of the Year at Pensions Management 2006, UK pension schemes can transfer their funds quicker and winning two European awards Outstanding The discount supports our commitment to and more easily.
Company of the Year and Investor of the Year at the environmental management, and fits with our aim Central and Eastern European Real Estate Quality Awards.
to make a leading contribution to the health of the Navigator is one of the first providers internationally communities in which we operate.
It also rewards to register with UK regulators as a qualifying regulated Our sustainable and responsible investment SRI team those of our policyholders who make a conscious overseas pension scheme, which allows UK pension continues to be highly regarded in the market and was choice to protect the environment.
plan members to transfer benefits overseas.
the only UK-based team to be awarded a UK equities mandate by Frances state pension reserve fund.
We As a leading Australian retirement solutions provider For more information on Aviva Canada visit were recognised as SRI provider of the year by Global and the UKs top insurer, we have many customers U www.
com Pensions 2006, and we retained our top ranking for who will benefit from this new development, including our understanding of SRI and extra-financial issues in many of the Australians who have worked in the UK, the Thomson Extel Survey for the fourth successive year.
either before migrating or when visiting.
We are delighted that our hard work, forward thinking We are one of the first businesses in the world to approach to asset management and focus on SRI issues offer this flexibility to our customers.
continues to be recognised by our peers, clients and industry associates.
For more information on Navigator visit U www.
au For more information on Morley visit U www.
co. uk Total sales represents the present value of new business premiums of our long-term business plus investment sales and net written premiums of our general insurance and health businesses.
m m Finance Aviva plc Finance Annual Review 2006 14 Dear Shareholder, To achieve leading financial management and control, we are required to have an increasingly forward-looking view.
We are actively involved in the many debates that will affect reporting developments in our industry such as IFRS phase II on insurance contracts and the EUs Solvency II directive.
These are some time from being implemented, yet the debates that will influence their final positions are happening now.
Capital management Capital strength is important to us since it gives us flexibility to take advantage of opportunities to create value for our shareholders and customers.
We have further strengthened our capital position during the year.
Equity shareholders funds have increased by 18% to 17.5 billion and our excess solvency margin, as measured under the insurance groups directive, was 3.6 billion 2005: 3.6 billion, reflecting the acquisition of AmerUs having reduced the margin by 0.7 billion and the impact of funding the pension scheme deficit.
The underlying strong operational performance demonstrates the capital generative nature of our businesses.
The ability to generate capital is a key strength of the group and enables us to fund both organic growth and bolt-on acquisitions from our internal capital resources.
Additionally, rating agencies have recognised this strength by reaffirming the ratings of our main operating subsidiaries, AA AAvery strong from Standard & Poors and Aa3 excellent from Moodys, both with a stable outlook.
During 2006, we have continued to develop a capital management framework that utilises individual capital assessment ICA principles.
Using an ICA model provides a close link between capital and risk management.
It is important that we increasingly match the amount of capital that we hold to the relative risks that we face.
Our ICA model clearly demonstrates that our diversified business, in terms of geography, products and distribution dramatically reduces the amount of economic capital required to protect against the risk of insolvency.
Such risk-based capital models are increasingly being used to inform our decision-making processes and will, in time, allow us to improve capital efficiency.
Our return on equity shareholders funds of 13.1% 2005: 15.0%, exceeds our stated target return of 12.5%, notwithstanding our opening shareholders funds being 3.2 billion higher than a year earlier.
Reporting Changes 2006 has been a year of considerable change and development in the financial reporting arena.
In March, we published our first financial statements under IFRS, requiring changes to accounting systems and extra disclosures.
Additionally, we are now seeing the introduction of enhanced requirements for the narrative elements of our reporting.
These changes are challenging our finance teams to understand, produce and explain a much greater volume of information.
I was therefore delighted that our hard work in these areas was recognised at the prestigious 2006 IR Magazine UK awards where we won the prize for best disclosure by a FTSE-100 company, an excellent achievement.
Solvency ll Solvency II represents a great opportunity for us to establish a fairer deal while promoting Europe as a truly single market.
The current system of insurance supervision and regulation is a blunt instrument that has not succeeded in creating a level playing field for insurers, is capital inefficient and can ultimately lead to higher prices for consumers.
The industry already suffers from a myriad of different measures against which it is assessed.
It will be important to align regulatory and accounting measures more closely with the underlying economics of the business.
This is a unique opportunity to shape 21st century supervision to the benefit of all and we are fully committed to the project.
Outlook We have built a reputation for professionalism and prudence, but we also have a forward thinking outlook.
We remain committed to efficiently managing risk and capital, while continuing to seek out innovative ways to improve our processes, controls and risk and capital management.
Andrew Moss Group finance director Finance Aviva plc Annual Review 2006 15 Key performance indicators In 2006, the groups strategy was underpinned by focusing on a number of key financial performance measures.
The key measures that are used to assess performance at a group level are set out below: Return on equity Proposed ordinary dividend Group operating profit shareholders funds per share and dividend cover before tax 16 30 3.0 3,500 14 3,000 25 2.5 12 2,500 20 2.0 10 2,000 8 15 1.5 1,500 6 10 1.0 1,000 4 5 0.5 500 2 0 00 0 2004 2005 2006 2004 2005 2006 2004 2005 2006 ROE Dividend EEV Target Cover IFRS We aim to deliver an after-tax operating return Our intention is to increase the total dividend on a We aim to achieve steady sustainable growth on opening equity shareholders funds, including basis judged prudent using a dividend cover in the in our operating profit, both on an EEV and life profits on a European Embedded Value 1.5 to 2.0 times range as a guide, while retaining IFRS basis.
In seeking to achieve this growth, EEV basis, equivalent to 12.5%.
This is a capital to support future business growth.
we continue to adopt strict financial management change to our previously stated aim of a 10% disciplines underpinned by strong corporate Our board has recommended a final dividend of net real return.
19.18 pence 2005: 17.44 pence, bringing the Our post-tax operating return on equity total dividend for the year to 30.00 pence 2005: Our EEV operating profit grew by 12% to shareholders funds was 13.1% 2005: 15.0%, 27.27 pence.
On an IFRS ahead of our 12.5% target, notwithstanding increase.
Dividend cover is 2.80 times 2005: basis, operating profit before tax amounted to opening shareholders funds being 3.2 billion 2.17 times.
Excluding the beneficial impacts of 3,110 million 2005: 2,128 million.
Both results higher and so impacting the return.
one-offs in 2006 and applying a normalised tax reflect strong operational performance, expanding rate, the dividend cover was 2.0 times.
and strengthening distribution channels and the benefit of rising investment markets.
Risk and capital management We believe that the measurement of economic capital provides a clear and consistent way to monitor and compare the risks in our business.
Shareholders equity by currency Credit risk exposures We maintain an efficient capital structure using 1 1 a combination of equity shareholders funds, 4 preference capital, subordinated debt and borrowings.
This structure is consistent with our risk profile and the regulatory and market 3 requirements on our business.
2 Shareholders equity We operate internationally and are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk.
We generally do 5 not hedge foreign currency revenues, preferring 2 to retain capital locally to support business 4 growth and meet regulatory requirements.
3 Credit risk 1 Sterling 1 AAA We have significant exposure to credit risk 2 Euro 2 AA through our investments in corporate bonds, 3 US dollar 3 A commercial mortgages and other securities.
4 Other 4 BBB We monitor and manage two types of credit 5 Speculative grade and not rated risk: exposure to individual counterparties and aggregate exposures.
We are increasingly using detailed analyses to define our optimal balance between risk and reward.
Return on equity shareholders funds is calculated using after-tax return based on operating profit, including long-term savings profit on a European Embedded Value EEV basis before adjusting items.
Dividend cover is measured on operating earnings after tax on an IFRS basis, expressed as a multiple of the ordinary dividend in respect of the financial year.
Group EEV operating profit is calculated using long-term savings operating profit on an EEV basis before adjusting items.
Group IFRS operating profit is calculated using long-term savings operating profit on an IFRS basis before adjusting items.
ROE % Dividend pence Dividend cover x Operating profit m Employees and responsibility Aviva plc Employees and responsibility Annual Review 2006 16 Dear Shareholder, Around the world Aviva is committed to attracting and retaining the best talent available.
We aim to engage our people in their work, achieve our ambitions and provide a great customer experience.
The key to our success is great leaders, making the most of all our talents and exploiting our international opportunities.
Aviva has to be a company people want to work with and our people strategy is focused on achieving that.
Responsibility We are aware of our responsibilities and are committed to behaving in a socially responsible way.
How we do business helps us to achieve our ambition of being the worlds most trusted savings, investments and insurance provider.
I am determined that we will maintain our sector-leading reputation in corporate social responsibility CSR and we have further important initiatives underway to keep us there.
2006 developments In 2006, we implemented a worldwide employee survey that allows us to benchmark our performance as an employer against the best in the world, identify and share good practice, and focus our efforts on issues that mean the most to our employees.
We launched task forces on three key people-related challenges: building great leadership across Aviva: delivering talent management offerings that enable our people to achieve their potential: and leveraging the power of the Aviva brand for our current and future employees.
I am confident we will be able to report significant benefit from these initiatives next year.
Keeping Aviva fit for the future remains vital and not all the answers are easy ones.
In 2006, we announced plans to restructure our UK businesses to improve both efficiency and the service we provide to our customers, with the loss of 4,000 jobs.
We will do all we can to minimise the impact on individuals through management of turnover, redeployment and voluntary departure.
We will help those who leave the business to do so with dignity and support.
The formation of a board CSR committee in 2006 raised further the profile of our CSR agenda.
Our decision to carbon neutralise our operations worldwide represents a significant commitment.
Aviva is the first global insurer to commit to doing so.
We also became a founder member of Oxfams 365 Alliance, ensuring that Oxfam has pre-committed, planned resource in anticipation of any disaster across the globe.
Valuing diversity and respect at work are a fundamental part of our culture.
In 2006, we launched a global senior womens network group, introduced a range of recruitment practices aimed at attracting minority groups and provided tools to encourage our employees to engage with and understand our diversity agenda.
Our rapid progress as a forward thinking employer has been recognised through several awards, such as inclusion in The Times top 50 places where women want to work, Aviva being the only company to feature in all categories assessed and the city category award from Opportunity Now.
Outlook We have begun 2007 by welcoming, as Aviva employees, 1,500 people in India who had been serving our customers through third-party employers.
That process will continue this year.
We will continue to build our reputation as an employer of choice and a responsible corporate citizen.
Our people and CSR agendas are at the heart of that ambition and I look forward to reporting next year on the progress we have made in 2007.
John Ainley Group human resources director Employees and responsibility Aviva plc Annual Review 2006 17 Employee engagement and leadership CO emissions Community investment 2 70 70 140,000 1 3 60 60 120,000 2 50 50 100,000 40 40 80,000 30 30 60,000 20 20 40,000 10 10 20,000 1 Cash and gifts in kind 2 Staff time 0 0 0 3 Management time 2005 2006 2004 2005 2006 Employee Leadership Existing Newly reported engagement businesses businesses Our global employee climate survey provides We are conscious of our impact on the We are committed to working in partnership with a measure of employee engagement and environment and are committed to managing and the communities in which we operate.
For Aviva, employee engagement reducing, where possible, our carbon emissions we invested 6.3 million in community initiatives represents the degree of effort that our people over time.
In 2006, we have included emissions worldwide.
Our investment includes 34,000 hours put into the organisation, the quality of that from our RAC and AutoWindscreen fleets and of staff volunteering.
Our forward thinking effort and their loyalty to the company.
The survey buildings, and Asian businesses for the first time, approach is reflected in our support for numerous results are used to plan for the year ahead, with increasing significantly our total emissions.
community initiatives around the group.
the aim of achieving continuous improvement.
From our existing businesses, emissions have The climate survey also measures employees shown a slight increase, reflecting greater business perceptions of leadership, verifying that employee travel related to operational requirements and the engagement is harnessed and aligned with upgrading of our managed property portfolio in our strategic direction and immediate business respect of air-conditioning and the increase use plans.
Our aim is to improve both measures over thereof.
time and to meet or exceed a global financial services benchmark.
i Award winning i First insurer to go i Aviva joins Oxfam diversity programmes carbon neutral worldwide 365 Alliance Aviva was one of the first companies to join the We are aware that diversity is a significant issue for Aviva is committed to becoming the first insurer to Oxfam 365 Alliance, a new initiative developed by us.
To reflect our customer base, we continue our carbon neutralise its operations on a worldwide basis.
Oxfam GB to support its global emergency response focus on diversity and on making our work force This is an important further step in our efforts to limit operations.
To join the Alliance, companies must increasingly international.
our environmental impact, following our progress with commit to providing between 500,000 and 1 million energy efficiency and use of zero emission electricity.
This year our diversity campaigns were recognised over three years.
The funding will provide extra help For example, 55% of electricity used by Aviva globally through a number of significant awards including for the international charitys expanding rapid response is obtained from zero emission sources.
the Opportunity Now City award.
The City Award team of aid workers and will help run the warehouse recognises businesses within the City of London We shall offset the remaining emissions about which stores one of the worlds largest supplies for their innovation and progress in creating gender- 125,000 tonnes a year groupwide on a retrospective of emergency equipment.
With these resources, inclusive workplaces.
We will achieve this by Oxfam will always be ready to deal with disasters compensating for carbon output from our use of nonOther recognition of our campaigns included immediately, wherever and whenever they occur.
renewable sourced electricity and gas in buildings and appearance in The Times Top 50 places where Oxfam will also provide aid to crises which often business travel by investing in projects that generate women want to work, an Opportunity Now Gold go unnoticed by the worlds media.
The credits will come from carbon award and a silver award for Race for Opportunity.
For Aviva, the Oxfam 365 Alliance is a perfect mitigation methods, such as tree planting, and renewable demonstration of forward thinking in practice.
energy generation projects that do not release carbon For more information visit We are proud to be a part of it.
to the atmosphere, such as solar or wind power.
com Photo credit: Maite Alvarez Oxfam Our decision to go carbon neutral is a significant step.
We believe climate change to be the most important For more information visit environmental issue facing the world.
com csr thinking company, we are playing our part in addressing this challenge and would encourage other businesses to follow suit.
For more information on CSR programmes U visit www.
com csr The global financial services benchmark and our global employee climate survey measure employee engagement using slightly different definitions.
Using the global financial services definition our employee engagement score was 70% 3% below the benchmark and our leadership score was 55% 2% below the benchmark.
Engagement % Leadership % CO tonnes 2 Board of directors Aviva plc Board of directors Annual Review 2006 18 Richard Harvey FIA 56 Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE 64 Group chief executive Chairman Appointed to the board in May 2000 and became group chief Appointed to the board in January 2005 and became chairman executive in April 2001.
Joined Norwich Union in 1992, holding on 1 January 2006.
Currently chairman of Aegis Group plc media senior positions in New Zealand and the UK before joining the services, an independent non-executive director of BG Group plc Norwich Union board in 1995 and becoming group chief executive utility and Reed Elsevier plc publisher and a member of the of Norwich Union in 1998.
Former chairman of the Association supervisory board of ABN AMRO N. V. banking.
Former chairman of British Insurers.
Richard Harvey will retire as the group chief of KPMG International auditors, former deputy chairman of executive in July 2007.
Group 4 Securicor plc security services and a former independent non-executive director of Young & Co. s Brewery PLC drinks and Member of the nomination and corporate social responsibility committees.
AEA Technology plc commercial technology.
Andrew Moss 48 Chairman of the board and nomination committees and a member of the corporate social responsibility committee.
Group finance director Appointed to the board in May 2004 upon joining the company.
Guillermo fide la Dehesa 65 Previously director finance, risk management and operations Independent non-executive director in Lloyds insurance and formerly held a number of senior Appointed to the board in May 2000.
Joined the board of Norwich management positions at HSBC plc banking.
Andrew Moss Union as a non-executive director in 1999.
Currently non-executive will succeed Richard Harvey as the group chief executive in chairman of Avivas operations in Spain, non-executive viceJuly 2007. chairman of Goldman Sachs Europe banking and a non-executive director of Campofrio consumer, Unin Elctrica Fenosa utility Philip Scott FIA 53 and Bank Santander Central Hispano banking.
Chairman of the Executive director Centre of Economic Policy Research and a member of the Group of Appointed to the board in May 2000.
Joined Norwich Union in Thirty consultative group on international economic and monetary 1973 and held a number of senior positions before joining the affairs.
A former deputy governor of the International Monetary Norwich Union board in 1993.
Currently responsible for the groups Fund and the World Bank, a former deputy general manager of the insurance businesses outside Europe and Morley, the Groups UK Bank of Spain and former Secretary of State of Finance in Spain.
Philip Scott will succeed Andrew Moss as the group finance director in July 2007.
Member of the nomination and corporate social responsibility committees.
Patrick Snowball 56 Executive director Appointed to the board in March 2001.
Joined the group in 1989, holding a number of senior positions before joining the board of Norwich Union in 1999.
Currently responsible for the groups United Kingdom businesses namely Norwich Union Insurance, Norwich Union Life and RAC.
A member of the Financial Services Authoritys Practitioner Panel.
Richard Harvey Lord Sharman of Redlynch Andrew Moss Philip Scott Patrick Snowball Board of directors Aviva plc Annual Review 2006 19 Wim Dik 68 Carole Piwnica 49 Senior independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board in December 1999.
Currently chairman of Appointed to the board in May 2003.
A member of the New York the supervisory board of Zesko Holding B. V. telecommunications and Paris bars, practising law in Europe and the US specialising in and Tele Atlas N. V. information systems, a non-executive director private equity and EU regulatory matters.
Currently a non-executive of Unilever N. V. and Unilever plc consumer and of LogicaCMG plc director of Toepfer International GmbH trading and a member of computer services.
Former Minister for Foreign Trade in the the biotech advisory board of Monsanto.
A former chairman of Nederlandse Unilever Bedrijven vice-chairman governmental affairs for Tate & Lyle plc B. V. consumer and former chairman and chief executive officer of agricultural industrial and a former non-executive director of KPN Royal Dutch Telecom telecommunications.
A former chairman S A Spadel N. V. food and beverages and former chairman of of the supervisory board of Holland Casino gaming and a former Amylum Group agricultural industrial.
member of the supervisory boards of TNT Post Group mail Member of the audit, remuneration and corporate social responsibility committees.
services, Vos Logistics transport and ABN AMRO N. V. banking.
Chairman of the corporate social responsibility committee and member of the Russell Walls 63 nomination, and risk and regulatory committees.
Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board in May 2004.
Currently a non-executive Mary Francis CBE 58 director of Signet Group plc retail and chairman of its audit Independent non-executive director committee.
A former group finance director of BAA plc transport, Appointed to the board in October 2005.
Currently senior Wellcome plc pharmaceuticals and Coats Viyella plc textiles.
independent non-executive director of Centrica plc utilities, Former senior independent non-executive director of Stagecoach a non-executive director of St Modwen Properties plc property Group plc transport and of Hilton Group plc leisure and development, a director of the Bank of England, Fund Distribution a former non-executive director of the Mersey Docks and Limited and Almeida Theatre Company Limited.
A member of the Harbour Company plc transport.
advisory board of the National Consumer Council and Governor of Chairman of the audit committee and a member of the risk and regulatory and the Pensions Policy Institute.
A former Director General of the nomination committees.
Association of British Insurers and senior civil servant.
Chairman of the risk and regulatory committee and a member of the audit and Richard Whitaker LLB, DMS, FCII remuneration committees.
Group company secretary Richard Karl Goeltz 64 Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board in May 2004.
Currently a non-executive director of the Warnaco Group Inc clothing, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac financial services, New Germany Fund investment trust and a director of The London School of Economics and Political Science.
A former chief financial officer of American Express Company financial services, NatWest Group plc banking and The Seagram Company Ltd drinks and a former member of the Accounting Standards Board UK.
Chairman of the remuneration committee and member of the audit committee.
Guillermo fide la Dehesa Wim Dik Mary Francis Richard Karl Goeltz Carole Piwnica Russell Walls Summary financial statements Aviva plc Summary financial statements Annual Review 2006 20 year ended 31 December 2006 These statements are aimed at giving shareholders a summary Directors of the position and performance of Aviva.
They do not however, The following persons served as directors of the Company during contain all the information to allow as complete an understanding the year: of the Group as would be provided by the full audited Annual Guillermo fide la Dehesa Report and Accounts.
A copy of the full Annual Report and Wim Dik Accounts, which contains an unqualied auditors opinion, Mary Francis is available on the Aviva internet site at www.
com or free Richard Karl Goeltz of charge from Lloyds TSB Registrars, at the address on page 26 Richard Harvey of this document.
Andrew Moss 2006 accounts Carole Piwnica The summary financial statements on page 22 have been prepared Philip Scott on the basis of accounting policies set out in the Groups 2006 Lord Sharman of Redlynch Annual Report and Accounts.
The consolidated income statement Patrick Snowball has been presented on both a European Embedded Value EEV Derek Stevens retired 31 December 2006 basis and an International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis.
Andr Villeneuve retired 31 December 2006 The Group continues to believe that the EEV basis provides a better Russell Walls measure of the performance of the life business than the statutory The biographical details of the persons currently serving as directors IFRS basis.
Results of an insurance business in any particular year appear on pages 18 to 19. can be affected by significant movements in investment values, which inuence the reported profits before tax.
Therefore, to The Companys Articles of Association require one-third of the measure the underlying business performance, operating profit directors to retire by rotation each year.
At the forthcoming Annual before tax based on longer term rates of investment return is used, General Meeting Guillermo fide la Dehesa, Wim Dik, Richard Karl eliminating the volatility caused by movements in investment values.
Goeltz and Russell Walls, all independent non-executive directors, As a result, managers are encouraged to focus on operational will retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
performance and aspects of the business that are under their None of the directors standing for re-election have a service control.
Derek Stevens and Andr Villeneuve who were re-elected by shareholders at last years Summarised directors report Annual General Meeting had served on the Board for more than Annual General Meeting nine years and therefore retired on 31 December 2006 in line with A separate document accompanying the Annual Review contains the Boards plans to renew and refresh its composition.
the formal notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the Company and a description of the business to be conducted at the Directors interests and indemnity arrangements meeting.
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 26 April At no time during the year did any director hold a material 2007 at The Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS interest in any contract of signicance with the Company or any at 11am.
of its subsidiary undertakings other than a qualifying third-party indemnity between each director and the Company and service Review of operations contracts between each executive director and a Group company.
Aviva plc is the holding company of the Aviva Group of companies.
The principal activities of the Group are life insurance and long-term The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year savings business, asset management and all classes of general directors and ofcers liability insurance in respect of itself and its insurance carried out through its subsidiaries, associates and directors.
The directors also have the benefit of the indemnity branches in the United Kingdom, continental Europe and Ireland, provision contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
North America, Asia and Australia.
The Group also undertakes The Company has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of motoring services in the UK and Ireland.
Details of the Groups each director of the Company and each person who was a director operations for the accounting period, its current position and future of the Company during the year in respect of liabilities which may prospects are contained in the Chairmans statement, the Group attach to them in their capacity as directors of the Company or of Chief Executives statement and business segment overviews on associated companies.
These provisions, which are qualifying third pages 4 to 13. party indemnity provisions as dened by Section 309B of the Companies Act 1985, were in force throughout the year and Dividend are currently in force.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 19.18 pence 2005: 17.44 pence per share which, together with the interim Corporate Social Responsibility CSR dividend of 10.82 pence 2005: 9.83 pence per share, produces a Avivas CSR policy and programme continues to take rmer roots total dividend for the year of 30.00 pence 2005: 27.27 pence per in the business and to generate support with staff, shareholders share.
The total cost of dividends for 2006, including preference and customers.
Avivas CSR performance is also highly ranked by dividends, will amount to 693 million 2005: 598 million, leaving growing numbers of research agencies and investment houses.
1,468 million to be transferred to reserves 2005: 1,123 million It provides one of the pathways by which the Company seeks to transferred to reserves.
The final dividend for 2006 will be paid on achieve its corporate objective to be the financial services provider 17 May 2007 to all holders of ordinary shares on the Register of of choice.
Full details of the progress achieved within the CSR Members at the close of business on 9 March 2007.
The Aviva Scrip programme during the year can be found in Avivas CSR report.
Dividend Scheme will be available to shareholders in respect of the A copy of the printed summary CSR report is available from the payment of the final dividend.
In addition, a local currency payment Group Company Secretary and the full report may be viewed service will be available to shareholders residing in certain on www.
participating countries outside the UK.
Further details of these Corporate governance arrangements can be found in the shareholder services and The Board of directors is committed to a system of sound corporate information on page 25. governance and to the principles of Good Governance and the Code of Best Practice the Combined Code.
It is the Boards view that the Company complied fully throughout the accounting period with the provisions set down in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Summary financial statements Aviva plc Annual Review 2006 21 Directors interests in Aviva shares The interests held by each person who was a director at the end of the financial year in the ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Company are shown below.
All the disclosed interests are beneficial.
The table also summarises the interests in shares held through the Companys various all-employee and executive share schemes.
Shares are the directors beneficial holdings in the ordinary shares of the Company and in respect of the executive directors include shares held in trust under the Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP being shares purchased by them under the partnership element and shares granted under the free share element of the AESOP.
Executive directors are required to build and maintain a beneficial interest in the Companys shares equal in value to 1.5 times their annual salary 1.75 times annual salary in the case of the Group Chief Executive.
The requirement was introduced as part of the revised remuneration arrangements from 2005: the holding must be attained within five years.
Bonus Plan Awards relates to entitlements to shares arising through the current, or former, Aviva Bonus Plans.
Under these plans some of the earned bonuses are paid in the form of shares and deferred for three years.
The transfer of the shares to the director at the end of the period is not subject to the attainment of performance conditions but a proportion of the shares can be forfeited if the executive leaves service before the end of the period.
Long-Term Incentive Awards are awards granted under the Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plans which vest only if the performance conditions are achieved.
Options are options over shares granted under the savings related share option scheme.
Aviva Share Plan relates to shares held under the Plan in which only Andrew Moss participated.
Independent auditors statement to the members We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review of Aviva plc and consider the implications for our report if we become aware We have examined the Groups summary financial statements of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the summary financial statements.
summarised consolidated income statement, summarised Basis of opinion consolidated statement of recognised income and expenses IFRS We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin basis, summarised consolidated statement of change in equity 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial IFRS basis, summarised consolidated balance sheet IFRS basis statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use and supplemental balance sheet information EEV basis.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Opinion The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review In our opinion the summary financial statements are consistent in accordance with applicable law.
with the full annual accounts, Directors report and Directors This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, remuneration report of Aviva plc for the year ended 31 December in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
2006 and comply with the applicable requirements of Section 251 Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to of the Companies Act 1985, and regulations made thereunder.
the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or London assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 28 February 2007 Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statements within the Annual Review with the full annual accounts, Directors report, Directors remuneration report and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
Summary financial statements Aviva plc Summary financial statements continued Annual Review 2006 22 Summarised consolidated income statement Summarised consolidated balance sheet IFRS basis 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Premiums written net of reinsurance Assets and investment sales Goodwill 2,910 2,274 Long-term business 16,532 14,671 Acquired value of in-force business and intangible assets 2,728 803 General insurance and health premiums 10,702 10,311 Investment in joint ventures and associates 3,690 3,014 27,234 24,982 Investment properties, property and equipment 16,027 14,160 Pre-tax operating profit Financial investments 202,853 182,388 Long-term business EEV operating return 2,033 1,814 Other assets 49,972 47,076 Fund management operating profit 96 83 Cash and cash equivalents 14,542 13,732 General insurance and health operating profit 1,680 1,551 Total Assets 292,722 263,447 Other operations, corporate costs and unallocated Capital and reserves interest charges 564 544 Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders of Aviva plc 11,176 8,774 1 Operating profit EEV basis 3,245 2,904 Preference share capital 200 200 Adjustment to report the profits of our long-term insurance, Direct capital instrument 990 990 fund management and other operations on an IFRS basis 135 776 Minority interests 1,698 1,128 IFRS operating profit before tax attributable Total equity 14,064 11,092 to shareholders profits 3,110 2,128 Liabilities Impairment of goodwill 94 43 Gross liability for insurance and investment contracts 232,588 209,911 Amortisation and impairment of acquired value of in-force business 100 73 Unallocated divisible surplus 9,465 8,978 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 70 45 Net asset value attributable to unitholders 3,810 3,137 Financial Services Compensation Scheme and other levies 6 Borrowings 12,137 11,013 Short-term uctuation in return on investments backing Other liabilities 20,658 19,316 the general insurance and health business 149 517 Total Liabilities 278,658 252,355 profit on disposal of subsidiaries and associates 222 153 Total equity and liabilities 292,722 263,447 Integration and restructuring costs 246 109 profit before tax attributable to shareholders Supplemental balance sheet information EEV basis profits IFRS basis 2,977 2,528 2006 2005 Tax 588 630 m m profit after tax attributable to shareholders 2,389 1,898 Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders of Aviva plc IFRS basis 11,176 8,774 Summarised consolidated statement of recognised income Adjustment to other reserves 462 306 and expenses IFRS basis Additional retained profit on an EEV basis 6,817 6,431 Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders 2006 2005 of Aviva plc EEV basis 17,531 14,899 m m Preference share capital and direct capital instrument 1,190 1,190 Fair value gains, net of transfers to income statement 210 314 Minority interests 2,137 1,457 Actuarial losses on pension schemes 114 545 Total equity EEV basis 20,858 17,546 Foreign exchange rate and other movements 346 2 Aggregate tax effect 5 275 Approved by the Board on Net expense income recognised directly in equity 255 42 28 February 2007 profit after tax attributable to shareholders 2,389 1,898 Total recognised income and expense for the year 2,134 1,940 Andrew Moss Summarised consolidated statement of changes in equity Group Finance Director IFRS basis 2006 2005 m m Balance at 1 January 11,092 8,993 Total recognised income and expense for the year 2,134 1,940 Dividends and appropriations 762 657 Issue of share capital for the acquisition of AmerUs 2005: RAC 892 530 Other issue of share capital, net of transaction costs 43 59 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 203 100 Capital contributions from minority shareholders 397 212 Minority share of dividends declared in the year 75 70 Minority interest in acquired disposed subsidiaries 92 36 Reserves credit for equity compensation plans and other movements 48 21 Total equity 14,064 11,092 Minority interests 1,698 1,128 Balance at 31 December 12,366 9,964 2006 2005 pence pence 2 Operating earnings per share Basic EEV basis 79.2p 74.5p 3 Total earnings per share Basic IFRS basis 87.5p 73.5p 4 Net asset value per ordinary share IFRS basis 436p 366p 4 Net asset value per ordinary share EEV basis 683p 622p Notes 1.
Before tax, amortisation of goodwill, amortisation of acquired additional value of in-force business and exceptional items.
Operating earnings per share is based on the operating profit on an EEV basis, after tax, minority interests and preference dividends.
The equivalent earnings per share using the modied IFRS profit is 86.9 pence per share 2005: 60.5 pence.
Total earnings per share is based on the IFRS profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders.
Net asset value per ordinary share is calculated based on equity shareholders funds.
Summary financial statements Aviva plc Annual Review 2006 23 Summary directors remuneration report The remuneration package Below is a summary of the information contained in the Directors The Company believes that senior executives should align their own remuneration report which shareholders will be asked to approve interests with those of the Companys shareholders.
It therefore at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors believes that, whilst paying a competitive basic salary, the remuneration report, contained in the Companys Annual Report substantial element of the remuneration package should be closely and Accounts for 2006, provides full details of the Companys linked to the performance of the business and delivered in the form remuneration policy, practices, pension arrangements and incentive of shares.
During 2006, the remuneration package for the plans including a description of the performance conditions which Companys executive directors comprised the following elements: apply to the incentive plans, as well as details of all the awards A basic salary.
and options held by the directors.
A copy of the Annual Report and Accounts is available from the Companys Registrar, An annual bonus plan to encourage executives to meet annual Lloyds TSB Registrars.
targets relating to business and agreed personal performance targets.
Two-thirds of any bonus is paid in the form of shares Remuneration policy and deferred for three years.
The Companys remuneration policy seeks to provide remuneration packages appropriate for each particular market in which the A long-term incentive plan to align executives longer term Company operates in order to attract and retain high calibre interests with those of shareholders.
employees and encourage and reward superior performance in A pension entitlement.
a manner which is consistent with the interests of shareholders.
The policy is aimed at ensuring senior executives are rewarded A long-term discretionary savings plan used primarily for fairly for their individual and collective contributions to the employees who can no longer accrue pension benets or whose Companys performance.
benets are restricted under the staff pension scheme, the Aviva Capital Accumulation Plan ACAP.
New regulations came into effect on 6 April 2006 that apply to all members of United Kingdom pension schemes including, A car allowance, private medical insurance and participation a limit Lifetime Allowance on the value of pension that can in the Companys all-employee share plans.
be taken from a tax approved pension scheme.
Awards granted under the long-term incentive plan are subject to As a result, significant changes have been made to the way in performance conditions based on the Companys Total Shareholder which pension provision is made for those employees whose Return TSR and the return on capital employed ROCE.
TSR is benets exceed, or are likely to exceed, the Lifetime Allowance.
ranked against the TSR of the major European financial services Generally, senior employees who are currently members of the companies in the Companys comparator group over a three dened benefit section of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme will year period.
continue to accrue pension benets under the Scheme until the ROCE is measured against the context of the Companys three year value of their benets reaches the Lifetime Allowance.
At this point, business plan, the trading conditions and shareholder expectations they will cease membership of the Scheme.
In 2006, the Company at the time each award is made.
introduced a new long-term savings scheme for senior executives.
Discretionary payments are made into an employee benefit trust All executive directors have a service contract which can be operated by independent trustees.
Only senior executives not terminated by the Company upon giving 12 months notice.
accruing pension in the Aviva staff pension scheme received Non-executive appointments can be terminated by either party contributions in 2006.
Further details are contained in the Annual at any time upon giving one months written notice.
New employees, including senior executives, will receive In addition to the remuneration set out in the table overleaf the pension benets through the dened contribution section of the following shares were awarded to executive directors in 2006 scheme.
These changes were made against the principle that the under the Companys incentive plans.
The shares granted under cost of providing the new arrangements would be no greater than the long-term incentive plan will only vest if certain conditions the cost of the current pension arrangements nor would employees relating to the Companys performance over the three financial be compensated for any additional tax arising from the new years commencing 1 January 2006 are met.
Annual Long-Term Bonus Plan Incentive Shares Plan Shares Richard Harvey 83,317 170,731 Andrew Moss 47,648 87,804 Philip Scott 47,138 95,121 Patrick Snowball 56,100 95,121 In addition to the above, directors have interests in awards and options granted in previous years.
Summary financial statements Aviva plc Summary financial statements continued Annual Review 2006 24 Directors remuneration 2006 The remuneration payable to directors who held ofce for any part of the financial year is shown in the table below.
The charts below illustrate the balance between basic salary and variable performance based compensation annual bonus and long-term incentive plans received by each executive director in the year to 31 December 2006.
Bonuses include the value of shares granted under the free share part of the Aviva All-Employee Share Ownership Plan maximum 3,000 and the total amounts earned in respect of 2006 performance under the Annual Bonus Plan ie including the amounts deferred and granted in the form of shares.
All the executive directors received life assurance benets during the year that relate to the cost incurred by the Company of insuring the directors life assurance and spouses benets which, had they died during the year, could not have been wholly paid by the Pension Scheme and would therefore have been met by the Company.
The disclosure also included the cost of private medical insurance, and when appropriate, accompanied travel, accommodation and car benets.
All the numbers disclosed include the tax charged on the benets.
No directors received an expense allowance during the year.
Mr Moss received a non-pensionable and non bonusable allowance of 2% of salary as part of the compensation for him agreeing to give up his Unfunded Unapproved Retirement benefit UURB promise.
Payments to former directors: Since his retirement as a director in 2003, Anthony Wyand has served as a consultant and as a director on the boards of some of the Groups European operations.
Under this arrangement, a fee of 145,000 was paid to him in 2006.
During the year, shares granted to certain former executive directors under the Companys incentive plans vested.
Details of these awards were fully disclosed in the year of grant.
For the purposes of the disclosure required by Schedule 6 to the Companies Act 1985 the total aggregate emoluments of the directors in respect of 2006 was 7.9 million.
No executive director served during the year on the board of an external company in a personal capacity for which he was remunerated.
No compensation payment for loss of ofce was made to any director, or former director, during the year.
Andrew Moss did not benefit from the LTIPs that vested in 2006 as he was not an employee in 2003 when they were granted.
Summary financial statements Aviva plc Shareholder services and information Annual Review 2006 25 U U 1 Managing your shareholding Share dealing Shareholders who have any queries in respect of their shareholding The Company has arranged the following services that can be should contact the Companys Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars.
used to buy or sell Aviva shares.
Alternatively, if shareholders hold Contact details can be found below.
In addition to assisting with a share certicate they can also use any bank, building society or general queries, the Registrar can help with the following: stockbroker offering share dealing facilities to sell their shares.
Shareholders in any doubt about buying or selling their shares Amalgamating different share accounts If shareholders received should seek professional financial advice.
more than one copy of this Annual Review, it could be because there is more than one record for the shareholder on the share Share dealing facilities for UK shareholders share account members register.
To ensure that duplicate mailings are avoided the Registrar You can buy or sell shares via the internet or by telephone can arrange for accounts to be amalgamated.
through Shareview Dealing, a share dealing service provided by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
For internet purchases and sales log on to Dividend payments direct to your bank account As an alternative www.
co. uk dealing and for telephone purchases and to having dividends paid by cheque, shareholders can, if they wish, sales call 0870 850 0852 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to have them credited directly into their bank or building society Friday.
All 0870 numbers are charged at national rates, and are only account on the dividend payment date.
Having the dividend paid available if you are calling from the UK.
Lloyds TSB Registrars is directly into their bank account offers shareholders the benets of authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, avoiding the risk of cheques being lost in the post, and is more registered number 119278. convenient as payment is credited automatically on the payment date.
The tax voucher is sent to the shareholders registered address To buy or sell shares over the telephone, shareholders can contact as usual.
Shareholders wishing to set up a dividend mandate can Barclays Stockbrokers on 0870 549 3002 for shareholders with do so on the Companys website www.
a share certicate or 0870 549 3001 for shareholders with a share For overseas shareholders, a TAPS Transcontinental Automated account statement.
To check instructions and maintain high quality Payment Service is available, which allows shareholders in many service standards, Barclays Stockbrokers may record and monitor countries to have dividends credited direct to their bank accounts calls.
New Business Development hours are between 8.00am and in local currencies.
6.00pm Monday to Friday, excluding Bank Holidays.
Barclays Stockbrokers is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Consolidated tax vouchers Private shareholders who currently Authority, registered number 124247. receive dividends paid directly into their bank or building society account receive one consolidated tax voucher each year instead of a NatWest Stockbrokers provide a Share Dealing Service either voucher with each dividend payment, unless they request otherwise.
over the telephone or at certain NatWest branches for Aviva Share Account holders only.
For more information contact NatWest Scrip dividend The Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme the Scheme Stockbrokers on 0845 122 0689.
NatWest Stockbrokers Limited provides shareholders with the opportunity to receive their NWS is a member of the London Stock Exchange and PLUS.
NWS dividends in the form of new ordinary shares instead of cash.
is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, Shareholders who have not joined the Scheme but wish to do so registered number 124395.
Registered Ofce: Waterhouse Square, should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars and request a mandate form.
Registered Number 1959479, The completed mandate form will need to be received by Lloyds England.
NWS is operated by a joint venture between The Royal TSB Registrars no later than 18 April 2007 in order to be effective Bank of Scotland Group plc and The Toronto-Dominion Bank.
Share dealing facilities for overseas shareholders To sell Aviva shares over the telephone, shareholders can contact Barclays Stockbrokers on 44 0 141 352 3959.
Non-UK residents will U need to provide various documentation in order to use this service A range of shareholder frequently asked questions is available and details will be provided on registration.
Please note that online at: regulations prevent this service from being offered to US, Canadian and Australian residents.
Settlement proceeds will be www.
com shareholders sent to either a UK sterling bank account or by sterling cheque.
x Group financial calendar for 2007 Announcement of first quarter long-term savings new business gures 24 April Annual General Meeting 26 April Announcement of unaudited six months interim results 9 August Announcement of third quarter long-term savings new business gures 25 October Ordinary shares Ex-dividend date 7 March Record date 9 March Scrip dividend price available 14 March Dividend payment date 17 May Preference shares 3 First dividend payment for 8 % cumulative irredeemable preference shares 31 March 8 3 First dividend payment for 8 4% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 30 June 3 Second dividend payment for 8 % cumulative irredeemable preference shares 30 September 8 3 Second dividend payment for 8 4% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 31 December Shareholder services and information continued U U u 1 Internet sites Useful contact details Aviva owns various internet sites, most of which interlink with Detailed below are the contact details and various addresses that each other.
shareholders may nd useful if they have a query in respect of their shareholding.
Please quote Aviva plc, as well as the name and Aviva Group www.
com address in which the shares are held, in all correspondence.
UK long-term savings If you have a shareholder reference, please have this available and general insurance www.
com General shareholding, administration queries and Aviva Aviva worldwide internet sites www.
com websites share account queries: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
co. uk Alternative versions of this publication email: aviva@lloydstsb-registrars.
co. uk Corporate and single company Peps: including braille, large print and Barclays Stockbrokers Limited, audio-tape are available on request Tay House, 300 Bath Street, Glasgow G2 4LH.
co. uk Individual Savings Accounts ISAs : Lloyds TSB Registrars ISA Manager, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
T: 0870 242 4244 We are committed to caring for the environment and looking for sustainable ways to minimise our impact on it.
We therefore take care to minimise the impact on the environment in the paper we TM use, the paper we have used, 9lives 55, is produced using 55% recycled bre from both preand post consumer sources using an elemental chlorine free process and the remaining virgin bre using a totally chlorine free process.
The virgin bre is sourced from well managed forests.
The paper is FSC certied and manufactured at an ISO 14001 accredited mill.
This ensures there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well managed forest through to the nished document in the printing factory.
Aviva plc St Helens, 1 Undershaft ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against which London EC3P 3DQ an organisation can be credited by a third party.
Telephone 44 0 20 7283 2000 Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar using the paperless proong www.
Portrait photography by Arnhel fide Serra.
Registered in England All registered trademarks acknowledged.
