Aviva plc Financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2006 104 Accounting policies Aviva plc the Company, a public limited company incorporated amortisation.
Whilst not material at the Company or consolidated and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, together with its Group level, the amendment affects the Companys subsidiaries in subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Aviva transacts life respect of intercompany guarantees given and taken in the ordinary assurance and long-term savings business, fund management, and course of business.
Further details are given in note A to the most classes of general insurance and health business through its Companys separate financial statements.
subsidiaries, associates and branches in the UK, Ireland, continental Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups Europe, United States US, Canada, Asia, Australia and other entities are measured in the currency of the primary economic countries throughout the world.
The Group also invests in securities, environment in which that entity operates the functional properties, mortgages and loans and carries on the business of currency.
The consolidated financial statements are stated in trading in property.
sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation The Group is managed using reportable segments based on the currency.
Unless otherwise noted, the amounts shown in these above activities.
These are long-term business, fund management, financial statements are in millions of pounds sterling m. general insurance and health, further details of which are given in As supplementary information, consolidated financial information note 4. is also presented in euros.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of The separate financial statements of the Company are on these financial statements are set out below.
FRS 27 A Basis of presentation Financial Reporting Standard 27, Life Assurance, FRS 27 was From 2005, all European Union listed companies are required issued by the UKs Accounting Standards Board ASB on to prepare consolidated financial statements using International 13 December 2004, following the Penrose inquiry.
Aviva, along Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International with other major insurance companies and the Association of Accounting Standards Board IASB and endorsed by the European British Insurers ABI, signed a Memorandum of Understanding Union EU.
The date of transition to IFRS was 1 January 2004.
MoU with the ASB relating to FRS 27.
Under this MoU, Aviva The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in voluntarily agreed to adopt in full the standard from 2005 in the accordance with IFRS applicable at 31 December 2006.
In August 2005, the IASB issued IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and an amendment to IAS 1, Capital Disclosures.
B Use of estimates Although their requirements are applicable for accounting periods The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to beginning on or after 1 January 2007, the Group has decided make estimates and assumptions that affect items reported in to adopt IFRS 7 early and reflect its impact in these financial the consolidated balance sheet and income statement and the statements.
The amendment to IAS 1 brings the capital disclosures disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the into line with those already required by FRS 27 and, although the financial statements.
This is particularly so in the estimation of Group is not adopting it early, this is not expected to result in any amounts for insurance and participating investment contract material additional disclosures.
liabilities, for which further details are given in policy J below and in notes 35,37 and 46 to these financial statements.
Although In November 2006, the IASB issued IFRS 8, Operating Segments, these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the requirements of which are applicable for accounting periods current facts, circumstances and, to some extent, future events and beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This standard has not actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates, yet been endorsed by the EU, nor has it yet been adopted by possibly significantly.
On adoption, it will result in amendments to the disclosure of our segmental results but will have no impact on C Consolidation principles the results overall.
Subsidiaries In addition, IFRIC interpretation 8, Scope of IFRS 2, interpretation 9, Subsidiaries are those entities including Special Purpose Entities in Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives, interpretation 10, Interim which the Group, directly or indirectly, has power to exercise control Financial Reporting and Impairment, Interpretation 11, IFRS 2 over financial and operating policies in order to gain economic Group and Treasury Share Transactions, and interpretation 12, benefits.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which Service Concession Arrangements, have all been issued during 2006 effective control is transferred to the Group and are excluded but the last three have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
None of from consolidation from the date of disposal.
All inter-company them is applicable for the current accounting period and, on transactions, balances and unrealised surpluses and deficits on adoption, they will not have any impact on the Groups transactions between Group companies have been eliminated.
From 1 January 2004, the date of first time adoption of IFRS, the In accordance with Phase I IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts, the Group Group is required to use the purchase method of accounting to has applied existing accounting practices for insurance and account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Under this method, the participating investment contracts, modified as appropriate to cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets given comply with the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
up, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition, Further details are given in policy E below.
plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets of the In August 2005, the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 39, Financial subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill see policy M below.
Guarantee Contracts, which requires financial guarantees issued to Any surplus of the acquirers interest in the subsidiarys net assets be recognised initially at their fair value, and subsequently measured over the cost of acquisition is credited to the income statement.
at the higher of the expected liability or receivable under the guarantee and the amount initially recognised less any cumulative Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 105 Prior to 1 January 2004, certain significant business combinations These investments are classified as available for sale AFS financial were accounted for using the pooling of interests method assets, with changes in their fair value being recorded in a separate or merger accounting, which treats the merged groups as if they investment valuation reserve within equity.
had been combined throughout the current and comparative accounting periods.
Merger accounting principles for these D Foreign currency translation combinations have given rise to a merger reserve in the Income statements and cash flows of foreign entities are translated consolidated balance sheet.
These transactions have not been into the Groups presentation currency at average exchange rates restated, as permitted by the IFRS 1 transitional arrangements.
for the year while their balance sheets are translated at the year end exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of The merger reserve is also used where more than 90% of the the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes ventures, and of borrowings and other currency instruments the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to the relief under the Companies Act 1985. currency translation reserve within equity.
On disposal of a foreign Investment vehicles entity, such exchange differences are transferred out of this reserve In several countries, the Group has invested in a number of and are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or specialised investment vehicles such as OIECs.
These invest mainly loss on sale.
The cumulative translation differences were deemed to in equities, bonds, cash and cash equivalents, and properties, be zero at the transition date to IFRS.
and distribute most of their income.
Where Group companies Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the exchange own more than 50% of such vehicles, they are consolidated.
rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Gains and losses The interests of parties other than Aviva in such vehicles are resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the classified as liabilities and appear as Net asset value attributable to translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign unitholders in the consolidated balance sheet.
Where the Group currencies, are recognised in the income statement.
owns less than 50% of such vehicles, its interests are included in the consolidated balance sheet within financial investments as Translation differences on debt securities and other monetary permitted by IAS 28, Investments in Associates.
financial assets measured at fair value and designated as held at fair value through profit or loss FV see policy R are included in foreign Associates and joint ventures exchange gains and losses in the income statement.
For monetary Associates are entities over which the Group has significant financial assets designated as AFS, translation differences are influence, but which it does not control.
Generally, it is presumed calculated as if they were carried at amortised cost and so are that the Group has significant influence if it has between 20% recognised in the income statement, whilst foreign exchange and 50% of voting rights.
Joint ventures are entities whereby the differences arising from fair value gains and losses are included Group and other parties undertake an economic activity which is in the investment valuation reserve within equity.
Translation subject to joint control arising from a contractual agreement.
In a differences on non-monetary items, such as equities which are number of these, the Groups share of the underlying assets and designated as FV, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss, liabilities may be greater than 50% but the terms of the relevant whereas such differences on AFS equities are included in the agreements make it clear that control is not exercised.
controlled entities are referred to as joint ventures in these financial statements.
E Product classification Gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and Insurance contracts are defined as those containing significant joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in insurance risk if, and only if, an insured event could cause an insurer the associates and joint ventures.
Losses are also eliminated, unless to make significant additional payments in any scenario, excluding the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset scenarios that lack commercial substance, at the inception of the transferred between entities.
Such contracts remain insurance contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or expire.
Contracts can be Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for reclassified as insurance contracts after inception if insurance risk using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method, the becomes significant.
Any contracts not considered to be insurance cost of the investment in a given associate or joint venture, together contracts under IFRS are classified as investment contracts.
with the Groups share of that entitys post-acquisition changes to shareholders funds, is included as an asset in the consolidated Some insurance and investment contracts contain a discretionary balance sheet.
The Groups share of their post-acquisition profits participating feature, which is a contractual right to receive or losses is recognised in the income statement and its share of additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits.
post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
These are referred to as participating contracts.
Equity accounting is discontinued when the Group no longer has As noted in policy A above, insurance contracts and participating significant influence over the investment.
investment contracts in general continue to be measured and If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals accounted for under existing accounting practices at the later of or exceeds its interest in the undertaking, the Group does not the date of transition to IFRS or the date of the acquisition of the recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made entity.
Accounting for insurance contracts is determined in payments on behalf of the entity.
accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005, as amended The Companys investments in December 2006.
However, in certain businesses, the accounting In the Company balance sheet, subsidiaries and joint ventures are policies or accounting estimates have been changed, as permitted stated at their fair values, estimated using applicable valuation by IFRS 4 and IAS 8 respectively, to remeasure designated insurance models underpinned by the Companys market capitalisation.
liabilities to reflect current market interest rates and changes to regulatory capital requirements.
Aviva plc Financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 106 Accounting policies continued F Premiums earned I Net investment income Premiums on long-term insurance contracts and participating Investment income consists of dividends, interest and rents investment contracts are recognised as income when receivable, receivable for the year, movements in amortised cost on debt except for investment-linked premiums which are accounted for securities, realised gains and losses, and unrealised gains and losses when the corresponding liabilities are recognised.
For single on FV investments as defined in policy R. Dividends on equity premium business, this is the date from which the policy is effective.
securities are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend date.
Interest For regular premium contracts, receivables are taken at the date income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the effective when payments are due.
Premiums are shown before deduction yield on the investment.
It includes the interest rate differential on of commission and before any sales-based taxes or duties.
Where forward foreign exchange contracts.
Rental income is recognised on policies lapse due to non-receipt of premiums, then all the related an accruals basis.
premium income accrued but not received from the date they are The realised gain or loss on disposal of an investment is the deemed to have lapsed is offset against premiums.
difference between the proceeds received, net of transaction costs, General insurance and health premiums written reflect business and its original cost or amortised cost as appropriate.
Unrealised incepted during the year, and exclude any sales-based taxes or gains and losses represent the difference between the carrying duties.
Unearned premiums are those proportions of the premiums value at the year end and the carrying value at the previous year written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the balance end or purchase value during the year, less the reversal of previously sheet date.
Unearned premiums are calculated on either a daily recognised unrealised gains and losses in respect of disposals made or monthly pro rata basis.
Premiums collected by intermediaries, during the year.
but not yet received, are assessed based on estimates The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations means from underwriting or past experience, and are included in that, for managements decision-making and internal performance premiums written.
management, short-term realised and unrealised investment gains Deposits collected under investment contracts without a and losses are treated as non-operating items.
The Group focuses discretionary participating feature non-participating contracts instead on an operating profit measure that incorporates a longer are not accounted for through the income statement, except for term return on investments supporting its general insurance and the fee income covered in policy G and the investment income health business.
Total investment income, including realised and attributable to those contracts, but are accounted for directly unrealised gains, is therefore analysed between that calculated through the balance sheet as an adjustment to the investment using a longer term return and short-term fluctuations from this.
Further details of this analysis and the assumptions used are given in note 8.
G Other investment contract fee revenue Investment contract policyholders are charged fees for policy J Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities administration, investment management, surrenders or other Claims contract services.
These fees are recognised as revenue in the period Long-term business claims reflect the cost of all claims arising during in which they are collected unless they relate to services to be the year, including claims handling costs, as well as policyholder provided in future periods.
Amounts are considered to be assessed bonuses accrued in anticipation of bonus declarations.
when the policyholders balance has been adjusted for those fees.
General insurance and health claims incurred include all losses If the fees are for services to be provided in future periods, then occurring during the year, whether reported or not, related they are deferred and recognised as the service is provided.
handling costs, a reduction for the value of salvage and other Initiation and other front-end fees fees that are assessed against recoveries, and any adjustments to claims outstanding from the policyholder balance as consideration for origination of the previous years.
contract are charged on some non-participating investment and Claims handling costs include internal and external costs incurred in investment fund management contracts.
Where the investment connection with the negotiation and settlement of claims.
Internal contract is recorded at amortised cost, these fees are deferred and costs include all direct expenses of the claims department and any recognised over the expected term of the policy by an adjustment part of the general administrative costs directly attributable to the to the effective yield.
Where the investment contract is measured claims function.
at fair value, the front-end fees that relate to the provision of investment management services are deferred and recognised as Long-term business provisions the services are provided.
Under current IFRS requirements, insurance and participating investment contract liabilities are measured using accounting H Other fee and commission income policies consistent with those adopted previously under existing Other fee and commission income consists primarily of investment accounting practices, with the exception of liabilities remeasured fund management fees, distribution fees from mutual funds, to reflect current market interest rates and those relating to UK commission revenue from the sale of mutual fund shares, and with-profit and non-profit contracts.
In the United States, shadow transfer agent fees for shareholder record keeping.
Revenue from adjustments to the liabilities or related deferred acquisition costs are investment management fees, distribution fees and transfer recognised directly in equity so that unrealised gains or losses on agent fees is recognised when earned.
Reinsurance commissions assets that are recognised directly in equity affect the measurement receivable and other commission income are recognised on the of the liability or related deferred acquisition costs in the same way trade date.
as realised gains or losses.
The Group has adopted FRS 27, Life Assurance, for liabilities relating to such contracts, which adds to the requirements of IFRS but does not vary them in any way.
Further details are given in policy A above.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 107 The long-term business provisions are calculated separately for each ii Provision for unearned premiums The proportion of life operation, based either on local regulatory requirements or written premiums, gross of commission payable to intermediaries, existing local GAAP at the later of the date of transition to IFRS or attributable to subsequent periods is deferred as a provision for the date of the acquisition of the entity, and actuarial principles unearned premiums.
The change in this provision is taken to the consistent with those applied in the UK.
Each calculation represents income statement in order that revenue is recognised over the a determination within a range of possible outcomes, where the period of risk.
assumptions used in the calculations depend on the circumstances iii Liability adequacy At each reporting date, the Group reviews prevailing in each life operation.
The principal assumptions are its unexpired risks and carries out a liability adequacy test for any disclosed in note 35 b.
For liabilities of the UK with-profit fund, FRS overall excess of expected claims and deferred acquisition costs over 27 requires liabilities to be calculated as the realistic basis liabilities as unearned premiums, using the current estimates of future cash set out by the UKs Financial Services Authority, adjusted to remove flows under its contracts after taking account of the investment the shareholders share of future bonuses.
For certain UK non-profit return expected to arise on assets relating to the relevant general insurance contracts, the Group has adopted the realistic regulatory business provisions.
If these estimates show that the carrying basis as set out in the FSA Policy Statement 06 14 Prudential amount of its insurance liabilities less related deferred acquisition Changes for Insurers from 31 December 2006. costs is insufficient in light of the estimated future cash flows, the Present value of future profits PVFP on non-participating deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up a business written in a with-profit fund provision in the balance sheet.
For with-profit life funds falling within the scope of the FSA realistic Other assessments and levies capital regime, and hence FRS 27, an amount may be recognised The Group is subject to various periodic insurance-related for the present value of future profits on non-participating business assessments or guarantee fund levies.
Related provisions are written in a with-profit fund where the determination of the realistic established where there is a present obligation legal or constructive value of liabilities in that with-profit fund takes account, directly or as a result of a past event.
Such amounts are not included in indirectly, of this value.
This amount is recognised as a reduction insurance liabilities but are included under Provisions in the in the liability rather than as an asset on the balance sheet, and is balance sheet.
then apportioned between the amounts that have been taken into account in the measurement of liabilities and other amounts which K Non-participating investment contract liabilities are shown as an adjustment to the unallocated divisible surplus.
Claims Unallocated divisible surplus For non-participating investment contracts with an account balance, In certain participating long-term insurance and investment claims reflect the excess of amounts paid over the account balance business, the nature of the policy benefits is such that the division released.
between shareholder reserves and policyholder liabilities is Contract liabilities uncertain.
Amounts whose allocation to either policyholders or Deposits collected under non-participating investment contracts shareholders has not been determined by the end of the financial are not accounted for through the income statement, except for year are held within liabilities as an unallocated divisible surplus.
the investment income attributable to those contracts, but are Liability adequacy accounted for directly through the balance sheet as an adjustment At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the to the investment contract liability.
recognised long-term business provisions are adequate, using The majority of the Groups contracts classified as non-participating current estimates of future cash flows.
If that assessment shows investment contracts are unit-linked contracts and are measured at that the carrying amount of the liabilities less related assets is fair value.
Certain liabilities for non-linked non-participating insufficient in the light of the estimated future cash flows, the contracts are measured at amortised cost.
deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up an additional provision in the balance sheet.
The fair value liability is in principle established through the use of prospective discounted cash-flow techniques.
For unit-linked General insurance and health provisions contracts, the fair value liability is equal to the current unit i Outstanding claims provisions General insurance and health fund value, plus additional non-unit reserves if required on a outstanding claims provisions are based on the estimated ultimate fair value basis.
For non-linked contracts, the fair value liability is cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date, equal to the present value of expected cash flows on a marketwhether reported or not, together with related claims handling consistent basis.
Significant delays are experienced in the notification and settlement of certain types of general insurance claims, particularly Amortised cost is calculated as the fair value of consideration in respect of liability business, including environmental and pollution received at the date of initial recognition, less the net effect of exposures, the ultimate cost of which cannot be known with principal payments such as transaction costs and front-end fees, certainty at the balance sheet date.
Provisions for certain claims are plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective discounted, using rates having regard to the returns generated by interest rate method of any difference between that initial amount the assets supporting the liabilities.
Any estimate represents a and the maturity value, and less any write-down for surrender determination within a range of possible outcomes.
The effective interest rate is the one that equates the of estimation techniques are given in note 35 c. discounted cash payments to the initial amount.
At each reporting date, the amortised cost liability is determined as the value of future Outstanding claims provisions are valued net of an allowance for best estimate cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
Recoveries include non-insurance assets that have been acquired by exercising rights to salvage and subrogation under the terms of insurance contracts.
Aviva plc Financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 108 Accounting policies continued L Reinsurance in the portfolio on a systematic basis.
The rate of amortisation is The Group assumes and cedes reinsurance in the normal course of chosen by considering the profile of the additional value of in-force business, with retention limits varying by line of business.
Premiums business acquired and the expected depletion in its value.
The value on reinsurance assumed are recognised as revenue in the same of the acquired in-force long-term business is reviewed annually manner as they would be if the reinsurance were considered direct for any impairment in value and any reductions are charged as business, taking into account the product classification of the expenses in the income statement.
The cost of reinsurance related to long-duration The full embedded value of the long-term business and further contracts is accounted for over the life of the underlying reinsured details of the methodology and assumptions are included as policies, using assumptions consistent with those used to account supplementary information on pages 220 to 243. for these policies.
Intangible assets Gains or losses on buying retroactive reinsurance are recognised in Intangibles consist primarily of brands, certain of which have the income statement immediately at the date of purchase and been assessed as having indefinite useful lives, and contractual are not amortised.
Premiums ceded and claims reimbursed are relationships such as access to distribution networks and customer presented on a gross basis in the consolidated income statement lists.
The economic lives of the latter are determined by considering and balance sheet as appropriate.
relevant factors such as usage of the asset, typical product life Reinsurance assets primarily include balances due from both cycles, potential obsolescence, maintenance costs, the stability of insurance and reinsurance companies for ceded insurance liabilities.
the industry, competitive position, and the period of control over Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner the assets.
These intangibles are amortised over their useful lives, consistent with the outstanding claims provisions or settled claims which range from five to 22 years, using the straight-line method.
associated with the reinsured policies and in accordance with the The amortisation charge for the year is included in the income relevant reinsurance contract.
statement under Other operating expenses.
Reinsurance contracts that principally transfer financial risk are Impairment testing accounted for directly through the balance sheet and are not For impairment testing, goodwill and intangibles with indefinite included in reinsurance assets or liabilities.
A deposit asset or liability useful lives have been allocated to cash-generating units by is recognised, based on the consideration paid or received less any geographical reporting unit and business segment.
The carrying explicitly identified premiums or fees to be retained by the reinsured.
amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is reviewed at least annually or when circumstances or events If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying indicate there may be uncertainty over this value.
Goodwill and amount accordingly and recognises that impairment loss in the indefinite life intangibles are written down for impairment where income statement.
A reinsurance asset is impaired if there is the recoverable amount is insufficient to support its carrying value.
objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after initial Further details on goodwill allocation and impairment testing are recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the Group may not given in note 15 b. receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract, and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the N Property and equipment Group will receive from the reinsurer.
Owner-occupied properties are carried at their revalued amounts, which are supported by market evidence, and movements are M Goodwill, AVIF and intangible assets taken to a separate reserve within equity.
When such properties are Goodwill sold, the accumulated revaluation surpluses are transferred from Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over this reserve to retained earnings.
All other items classed as property the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the acquired and equipment within the balance sheet are carried at historical subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 the date of transition to IFRS is carried at its book value original cost less Investment properties under construction are included within cumulative amortisation on that date, less any impairment property and equipment until completion, and are stated at cost subsequently incurred.
Goodwill arising before 1 January 1998 less any provision for impairment in their values.
was eliminated against reserves and has not been reinstated.
Depreciation is calculated on the straightGoodwill arising on the Groups investments in associates and line method to write down the cost of other assets to their residual joint ventures since that date is included within the carrying value values over their estimated useful lives as follows: of these investments.
Properties under construction No depreciation Acquired value of in-force business AVIF Motor vehicles Three years, or lease term if longer The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long-term Computer equipment Three to five years insurance and investment contracts, acquired either directly or Other assets Three to five years through the purchase of a subsidiary, is recognised as an asset.
In most cases, this is classified as AVIF but, for non-participating Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its investment contracts, it is included within intangibles.
If this results estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its from the acquisition of an investment in an associate, the AVIF is recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal of property and held within the carrying amount of that associate.
In all cases, the equipment are determined by reference to their carrying amount.
AVIF is amortised over the useful lifetime of the related contracts Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 109 All borrowing costs are expensed as they are incurred.
Repairs and In general, the FV category is used as, in most cases, the Groups maintenance are charged to the income statement during the investment or risk management strategy is to manage its financial financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of major investments on a fair value basis.
Debt securities and equity renovations is included in the carrying amount of the asset when securities, which the Group buys with the intention to resell in the it is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the most short term, are classified as trading, as are non-hedge derivatives recently assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will see policy S below.
All other securities in the FV category are flow to the Group and the renovation replaces an identifiable part classified as other than trading.
The AFS category is used where the of the asset.
Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining relevant long-term business liability including shareholders funds is useful life of the related asset.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade O Investment property date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell Investment property is held for long-term rental yields and is not the assets, at their fair values less transaction costs.
Debt securities occupied by the Group.
Completed investment property is stated at are initially recorded at their fair value, which is taken to be its fair value, which is supported by market evidence, as assessed by amortised cost, with amortisation credited or charged to the qualified external valuers or by local qualified staff of the Group in income statement.
Investments classified as trading, other than overseas operations.
Changes in fair values are recorded in the trading and AFS are subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes income statement in net investment income.
in the fair value of trading and other than trading investments are included in the income statement in the period in which they P Impairment of non-financial assets arise.
Changes in the fair value of securities classified as AFS, Property and equipment and other non-financial assets are except for impairment losses and relevant foreign exchange gains reviewed for impairment losses whenever events or changes and losses, are recorded in a separate investment valuation reserve in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be within equity.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable The fair values of investments are based on quoted bid prices or amount, which is the higher of an assets net selling price and amounts derived from cash flow models.
Fair values for unlisted value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets equity securities are estimated using applicable price earnings or are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately price cash flow ratios refined to reflect the specific circumstances identifiable cash flows.
Equity securities, for which fair values cannot be measured reliably, are recognised at cost less impairment.
When Q Derecognition and offset of financial assets and securities classified as AFS are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair financial liabilities value adjustments are transferred out of the investment valuation A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or reserve to the income statement.
part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised where: Financial guarantees are recognised initially at their fair value.
The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: They are subsequently measured at the higher of the expected receivable or liability under the guarantee and the amount initially The Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, recognised less any accumulated amortisation.
but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third-party under a pass-through Impairment arrangement: or The Group reviews the carrying value of its investments on a regular basis.
If the carrying value of an investment is greater than the The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from recoverable amount, the carrying value is reduced through a charge the asset and has either transferred substantially all the risks to the income statement in the period of impairment.
The following and rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor retained policies are used to determine the level of any impairment: substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Listed AFS securities: The Group performs an objective review of the current financial position and prospects of the issuer on a A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the regular basis, to identify whether any impairment provision is liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
This review takes into account the likelihood of the Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount current market price recovering to former levels.
reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable Unlisted AFS securities: The Group considers the current financial right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention position of the issuer and the future prospects in identifying the to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the requirement for an impairment provision.
For both listed and unlisted AFS securities identified as being R Financial investments impaired, the cumulative unrealised net loss previously recognised The Group classifies its investments as either financial assets at within the AFS reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year.
fair value through profit or loss FV or financial assets available for sale AFS.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired, and is determined by local management at initial recognition.
The FV category has two subcategories those that meet the definition as being held for trading and those the Group chooses to designate as FV referred to in this accounting policy as other than trading.
Aviva plc Financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 110 Accounting policies continued Mortgages, investment property and securitised loans: Interest rate futures, forwards and options contracts Impairment is measured based on the present value of expected Interest rate futures are exchange-traded instruments and represent future cash flows discounted at the effective rate of interest of the commitments to purchase or sell a designated security or money loan, subject to the fair value of the underlying collateral.
When a market instrument at a specified future date and price.
Interest rate loan is considered to be impaired, the income statement is charged forward agreements are OTC where two-parties agree on an with the difference between the carrying value and the estimated interest rate and other terms that will become a reference point in recoverable amount.
Interest income on impaired loans is determining, in concert with an agreed notional principal amount, recognised based on the estimated recoverable amount.
a net payment to be made by one-party to the other, depending what rate in fact prevails at a future point in time.
Interest rate Reversals of impairments are only recognised where the decrease in options, which consist primarily of caps and floors, are interest rate the impairment can be objectively related to an event occurring protection instruments that involve the potential obligation of the after the write-down such as an improvement in the debtors credit seller to pay the buyer an interest rate differential in exchange rating, and are not recognised in respect of equity instruments.
for a premium paid by the buyer.
This differential represents the difference between current rate and an agreed rate applied to a S Derivative financial instruments and hedging notional amount.
Exposure to gain or loss on all interest rate Derivative financial instruments include foreign exchange contracts, contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as interest rate futures, currency and interest rate swaps, currency interest rates fluctuate.
and interest rate options both written and purchased and other financial instruments that derive their value mainly from underlying Foreign exchange contracts interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity values or equity Foreign exchange contracts, which include spot, forward and instruments.
All derivatives are initially recognised in the balance futures contracts, represent agreements to exchange the currency sheet at their fair value, which usually represents their cost.
They are of one country for the currency of another country at an agreed subsequently remeasured at their fair value, with the method of price and settlement date.
Foreign exchange option contracts are recognising movements in this value depending on whether they similar to interest rate option contracts, except that they are based are designated as hedging instruments and, if so, the nature of the on currencies, rather than interest rates.
Exposure to gain or loss on item being hedged.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market these contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as prices or, if these are not available, by using valuation techniques currency exchange and interest rates fluctuate.
such as discounted cash flow models or option pricing models.
Derivative instruments for hedging All derivatives are carried as assets when the fair values are positive On the date a derivative contract is entered into, the Group and as liabilities when the fair values are negative.
Premiums paid designates certain derivatives as either: for derivatives are recorded as an asset on the balance sheet at the date of purchase, representing their fair value at that date.
i a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge : Derivative contracts may be traded on an exchange or over-thecounter OTC.
Exchange-traded derivatives are standardised and ii a hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised include certain futures and option contracts.
OTC derivative asset or liability, a highly probable forecast transaction or a firm contracts are individually negotiated between contracting parties commitment cash flow hedge : or and include forwards, swaps, caps and floors.
Derivatives are iii a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation subject to various risks including market, liquidity and credit risk, net investment hedge similar to those related to the underlying financial instruments.
Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way, The notional or contractual amounts associated with derivative provided certain criteria are met.
At the inception of the transaction, financial instruments are not recorded as assets or liabilities on the the Group documents the relationship between the hedging balance sheet as they do not represent the potential gain or loss instrument and the hedged item, as well as the risk management associated with such transactions.
These amounts are disclosed in objective and the strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment of whether the hedge is Interest rate and currency swaps expected to be, and has been, highly effective in offsetting the risk Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements between two-parties in the hedged item, both at inception and on an ongoing basis.
to exchange periodic payments in the same currency, each of Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and which is computed on a different interest rate basis, on a specified qualify as net investment or cash flow hedges, and that prove to be notional amount.
Most interest rate swaps involve the net exchange highly effective in relation to the hedged risk, are recognised in a of payments calculated as the difference between the fixed and separate reserve within equity.
Gains and losses accumulated in this floating rate interest payments.
Currency swaps, in their simplest reserve are included in the income statement on disposal of the form, are contractual agreements that involve the exchange of both relevant investment or occurrence of the cash flow as appropriate.
periodic and final amounts in two different currencies.
Exposure to gain or loss on both types of swap contracts will increase or For a variety of reasons, certain derivative transactions, while decrease over their respective lives as a function of maturity dates, providing effective economic hedges under the Groups risk interest and foreign exchange rates, and the timing of payments.
management positions, do not qualify for hedge accounting under the specific IFRS rules and are therefore treated as derivatives held for trading.
Their fair value gains and losses are recognised immediately in other trading income.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 111 T Loans Other assets include vehicles which are subject to repurchase Loans with fixed maturities, including policyholder loans, mortgage agreements and inventories of vehicle parts.
The former are carried loans on investment property, securitised mortgages and collateral at the lower of their agreed repurchase price or net realisable value, loans, are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers.
The whilst the latter are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable majority of these loans are carried at their unpaid principal balances value, where cost is arrived at on the weighted average cost and adjusted for amortisation of premium or discount, nonformula or first in first out FIFO basis.
Provision is made against refundable loan fees and related direct costs.
These amounts are inventories which are obsolete or surplus to requirements.
deferred and amortised over the life of the loan as an adjustment to loan yield using the effective interest rate method.
Loans with V Cash and cash equivalents indefinite future lives are carried at unpaid principal balances or cost.
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term For certain securitised lifetime mortgages, the Group has taken highly liquid investments with less than 90 days maturity from the advantage of the revised fair value option under IAS 39 to present date of acquisition.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, the mortgages, associated borrowings and derivative financial cash and cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which instruments at fair value, since they are managed as a portfolio.
are included in payables and other financial liabilities on the This presentation provides more relevant information and eliminates balance sheet.
any accounting mismatch that would otherwise arise from using different measurement bases for these three items.
The fair values W Leases of mortgages classified as FV are estimated using discounted cash Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of flow forecasts, based on a risk-adjusted discount rate which reflects ownership is retained by the lessor, are classified as operating leases.
the risks associated with these products.
They are revalued at each Assets held for use in such leases are included in property and period end, with movements in their fair values being taken to the equipment, and are depreciated to their residual values over their income statement.
Rentals from such leases are credited to the To the extent that a loan is uncollectible, it is written-off income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the as impaired.
Subsequent recoveries are credited to the relevant leases.
Payments made as lessees under operating leases income statement.
net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the U Deferred acquisition costs and other assets relevant leases.
The costs directly attributable to the acquisition of new business for insurance and participating investment contracts excluding those X Provisions and contingent liabilities written in the UK are deferred to the extent that they are expected Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or to be recoverable out of future margins in revenues on these constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable contracts.
For participating contracts written in the UK, acquisition that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be costs are generally not deferred as the liability for these contracts is required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the calculated in accordance with the FSAs realistic capital regime and amount of the obligation can be made.
Where the Group expects FRS 27.
For non-participating investment and investment fund a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance management contracts, incremental acquisition costs and sales contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset enhancements that are directly attributable to securing an but only when the reimbursement is more probable than not.
investment management service are also deferred.
The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts when the Where such business is reinsured, an appropriate proportion of expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than the the deferred acquisition costs is attributed to the reinsurer, and unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
is treated as a separate liability.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed if the future obligation is probable and the amount cannot be reasonably estimated, or if Long-term business deferred acquisition costs are amortised they are possible but not probable.
systematically over a period no longer than that in which they are expected to be recoverable out of these margins.
Deferrable Y Employee benefits acquisition costs for non-participating investment and investment Employee entitlements to annual leave and long service leave are fund management contracts are amortised over the period in which recognised when they accrue to employees.
A provision is made the service is provided.
General insurance and health deferred for the estimated liability for annual leave and long service leave acquisition costs are amortised over the period in which the related as a result of services rendered by employees up to the balance revenues are earned.
The reinsurers share of deferred acquisition sheet date.
costs is amortised in the same manner as the underlying asset.
Pension obligations Deferred acquisition costs are reviewed by category of business at The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined the end of each reporting period and are written-off where they are contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of which are no longer considered to be recoverable.
generally held in separate trustee-administered funds.
The pension plans are generally funded by payments from employees and the relevant Group companies, taking account of the recommendations of qualified actuaries.
Aviva plc Financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 112 Accounting policies continued For defined benefit plans, the pension costs are assessed using Z Income taxes the projected unit credit method.
Under this method, the cost The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the year, of providing pensions is charged to the income statement so as after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Tax, including tax to spread the regular cost over the service lives of employees, relief for losses if applicable, is allocated over profits before taxation in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
The pension and amounts charged or credited to reserves as appropriate.
obligation is measured as the present value of the estimated future Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken for cash outflows using a discount rate based on market yields for high deferred tax assets, using the liability method, on all material quality corporate bonds.
The resulting pension scheme surplus or temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities deficit appears as an asset or obligation in the consolidated balance and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in equity through the Statement of recognised income and expense.
The principal temporary differences arise from depreciation of For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions property and equipment, revaluation of certain financial assets and to publicly or privately administered pension plans.
Once the liabilities including derivative contracts, provisions for pensions and contributions have been paid, the Group, as employer, has no other post-retirement benefits and tax losses carried forward: and, further payment obligations.
The Groups contributions are charged in relation to acquisitions, on the difference between the fair values to the income statement in the year to which they relate and are of the net assets acquired and their tax base.
The rates enacted or included in staff costs.
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date are used to determine the deferred tax.
Other post-retirement obligations Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare or other Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually that future taxable profit will be available against which the based on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age temporary differences can be utilised.
In countries where there is a and the completion of a minimum service period.
None of these history of tax losses, deferred tax assets are only recognised in schemes is material to the Group.
The costs of the Canadian excess of deferred tax liabilities if there is convincing evidence that scheme are included within those for the defined benefit pension future profits will be available.
For such schemes in other countries, Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising from provisions are calculated in line with local regulations, with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except movements being charged to the income statement within where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can staff costs.
be controlled and it is probable that the difference will not reverse Equity compensation plans in the foreseeable future.
The Group offers share award and option plans over the Companys Deferred taxes are not provided in respect of temporary differences ordinary shares for certain employees, including a Save As You Earn arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, or from goodwill for plan SAYE plan, details of which are given in the Directors which amortisation is not deductible for tax purposes, or from the remuneration report and in note 28. initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not The Group accounts for options and awards under share equity a business combination and affects neither accounting profit nor compensation plans, which were granted after 7 November 2002, taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.
until such time as they are fully vested, using the fair value based Deferred tax related to fair value re-measurement of available for method of accounting the fair value method.
Under this sale investments, owner-occupied properties and other amounts method, the cost of providing equity compensation plans is based taken directly to equity is recognised in the balance sheet as a on the fair value of the share awards or option plans at date of deferred tax asset or liability.
grant, which is recognised in the income statement over the expected vesting period of the related employees and credited to In addition to paying tax on shareholders profits, the Groups life the equity compensation reserve, part of shareholders funds.
businesses in the UK, Ireland and Australia pay tax on policyholders investment returns policyholder tax on certain products at Shares purchased by employee share trusts to fund these awards policyholder tax rates.
Policyholder tax is accounted for as an are shown as a deduction from shareholders funds at their income tax and is included in the total tax expense.
has decided to show separately the amounts of policyholder tax to When the options are exercised and new shares are issued, the provide a more meaningful measure of the tax the Group pays proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited to on its profits.
In the pro forma reconciliations, operating profit has share capital par value and the balance to share premium.
been calculated after charging policyholder tax.
Where the shares are already held by employee trusts, the net proceeds are credited against the cost of these shares, with the difference between cost and proceeds being taken to retained earnings.
In both cases, the relevant amount in the equity compensation reserve is then credited to retained earnings.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 113 AA Borrowings AD Earnings per share Borrowings are recognised initially at their issue proceeds less Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently, most borrowings are available to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number stated at amortised cost, and any difference between net proceeds of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the average and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement number of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held as over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate treasury shares.
All borrowing costs are expensed as they are incurred.
Earnings per share has also been calculated on the operating profit Where loan notes have been issued in connection with securitised before impairment of goodwill and other adjusting items, after tax, lifetime mortgages, the Group has taken advantage of the revised attributable to ordinary shareholders, as the directors believe this fair value option under IAS 39 to present the mortgages, associated figure provides a better indication of operating performance.
liabilities and derivative financial instruments at fair value, since they Details are given in note 13. are managed as a portfolio.
This presentation provides more For the diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number relevant information and eliminates any accounting mismatch of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all which would otherwise arise from using different measurement dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as convertible debt and bases for these three items.
share options granted to employees.
Potential or contingent share issuances are treated as dilutive when their conversion to shares AB Share capital and treasury shares would decrease net earnings per share.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a residual interest AE Operations held for sale in the assets of an entity after deducting all its liabilities.
Accordingly, Assets and liabilities held for disposal as part of operations which a financial instrument is treated as equity if: are held for sale are shown separately in the consolidated balance i there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other sheet.
The relevant assets are recorded at the lower of their carrying financial assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities on terms amount and their fair value, less the estimated selling costs.
that may be unfavourable: and ii the instrument is a non-derivative that contains no contractual obligation to deliver a variable number of shares or is a derivative that will be settled only by the Group exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other assets for a fixed number of the Groups own equity instruments.
Share issue costs Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds of the issue.
Dividends Interim dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends on these shares are recognised when they have been approved by shareholders.
Dividends on preference shares are recognised in the period in which they are declared and appropriately approved.
Treasury shares Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys share capital or obtain rights to purchase its share capital, the consideration paid including any attributable transaction costs net of income taxes is shown as a deduction from total shareholders equity.
Gains and losses on sales of own shares are charged or credited to the treasury share account in equity.
AC Fiduciary activities Assets and income arising from fiduciary activities, together with related undertakings to return such assets to customers, are excluded from these financial statements where the Group has no contractual rights in the assets and acts in a fiduciary capacity such as nominee, trustee or agent.
