The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 59 Investor Information Results Dividends Half year announced July Ordinary shares: Full year announced January First interim paid end May Second interim paid end August The Report and Accounts are posted to shareholders in Third interim paid end November January and the AGM is held in London in either late February Fourth Interim Final paid end February or early March.
Debenture stock interest Share Price Information 1 10 2% debenture stock 2016 and 8% debenture stock 2023 The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is published in paid on 30 April and 31 October.
The Financial Times and other leading newspapers.
The share price and details of the Companys performance can be found on Investing in Bankers the following websites: www.
com Ordinary shares of Bankers may be bought or sold directly and www.
com through a stockbroker, accountant, other independent financial adviser or through a number of banks or building The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL code is societies who are also providing this service.
Alternatively, 0076700. shares may be bought directly through itshenderson.
The Financial Times also provides on a daily basis an estimate Disability of the net asset value and of the discount premium.
Copies of this Report and Accounts or other documents issued by the Company are available from the Company Secretary.
History If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of formats, The Company was incorporated in 1888.
Since seven of the nine either Braille or on audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
original directors were bankers by profession, the name The Bankers Investment Trust, Limited was considered appropriate.
You can contact our registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland, The Company has paid dividends on the equity capital every year who have installed textphones to allow speech and hearing since incorporation except in the years 1892 and 1893. impaired people who have their own textphone to contact them directly by ringing 0870 600 3950 without the need for Nominee Code an intermediate operator.
Specially trained operators are The Bankers Investment Trust PLC undertakes to provide available during normal business hours to answer queries via copies of shareholder communications to nominee this service.
operators who have indicated in advance a wish to receive them, for the purpose of distribution to their customers.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People you Nominee operators are encouraged to advise investors should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
that they are able to attend meetings and to speak at meetings when invited by the Chairman.
For investors through itshenderson a textphone telephone service is available on 020 7850 5406.
This service is available Investors through itshenderson receive all shareholder during normal business hours.
communications, an invitation to the AGM and a Letter of Instruction to facilitate voting.
Total Expense Ratio Total Expense Ratio is defined here as the total annual pre tax Capital Gains Tax operating expenses management fee and other The calculation of the tax on chargeable gains will depend on administration costs expressed as a percentage of average personal circumstances.
If you are in any doubt about your shareholders funds over the year.
personal tax position, you are recommended to contact your professional adviser.
60 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 Investor Information continued Directors Independent Auditors Richard D Brewster Chairman  LLP, Richard R Burns Southwark Towers, Richard W Killingbeck 32 London Bridge Street, James Morley London SE1 9SY Francis I Sumner Senior Independent Director David G Thomas Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars, Audit Committee The Causeway, James Morley Chairman Worthing, Richard W Killingbeck West Sussex BN99 6DA Francis I Sumner Telephone: 0870 601 5366 David G Thomas There is now a range of shareholder information on line.
You Management Engagement Committee can check your holding and find practical help on transferring Richard D Brewster Chairman shares or updating your details at www.
co. uk Richard R Burns Richard W Killingbeck New Zealand Registrars James Morley Computershare Investor Services Limited, Francis I Sumner Private Bag 92119, David G Thomas Auckland 1020, New Zealand Telephone: New Zealand 64 09 488 8777 Nomination Committee Richard D Brewster Chairman New Zealand Stockbrokers Richard R Burns First NZ Capital Securities, Francis I Sumner Level 20, ANZ Centre, Richard W Killingbeck 23-29 Albert Street, PO Box 5333, Charities Committee Auckland, Francis I Sumner Chairman New Zealand Richard D Brewster Solicitors Investment Manager Norton Rose, Henderson Global Investors Limited is Kempson House, PO Box 570, authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority Camomile Street, and is represented by Alex Crooke London EC3A 7AN Secretary Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Custodian represented by Wendy King FCIS BNP Paribas Securities Services Limited, 55 Moorgate, Registered Number London EC2R 6PA Registered in England No.
26351C Stockbrokers Registered Office JP Morgan Cazenove, 4 Broadgate, 20 Moorgate, London EC2M 2DA London EC2R 6DA Telephone: 020 7818 1818 Fax: 020 7818 1819 Henderson ISA and PEPs Henderson Global Investors Limited Block C Western House Lynch Wood Business Park Peterborough PE2 6BP Telephone: 0800 832 832 Buy and manage your shares in The Bankers Investment Trust PLC the easy way.
Cost efficient You choose Keep track of Save tax hold trading You can how you manage share prices your shares in a taxbuy shares in your investments.
log on to your efficient ISA.
And, Bankers Investment You can buy and account to see you can consolidate Trust from 4.95 sell shares online, exactly how your any number of and there is no by telephone or Trust shares and PEP ISA accounts for limit to the size of by post.
the rest of your a single account fee your deal.
portfolio are of just 25 per year.
Itshenderson is the new, convenient way for investors to make sense of their portfolios.
Save time, money and effort by bringing all your investments together in one place: Investment Trusts, OEICs, Unit Trusts, Bonds, Shares, PEPs, ISAs and Cash deposits.
Using SmartDeal the online weekly bulk dealing service For more information visit our website www.
com or call 0845 712 5432 Please remember that past performance is not a guide to future performance.
The value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise as a result of market and currency fluctuations and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend upon individual circumstances.
Itshenderson is provided by Henderson Global Investors Limited the name under which Henderson Global Investors Limited, Henderson Fund Management plc, Henderson Administration Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, Henderson Investment Management Limited and Henderson Alternative Investment Advisor Limited each authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority and of 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA, provide investment products and services.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC is managed by This document is printed on Revive 50:50, a paper containing 50% recovered fibre & 50% virgin fibre.
Pulps used are elemental chlorine free manufactured at a mill accredited with the ISO 14001 environmental management system.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Printed by Beacon Press, Sussex HGI9201 2006
