Glossary Admitted carrier Dividend per share An insurance company authorised to do business in the US.
A charger Ratio, in pence calculated by dividing the dividends paid in the year by agreement is entered into which stipulates the terms and conditions the number of shares eligible to receive those dividends in the year.
under which a business must conduct within a state in the US.
Earnings per share EPS basic diluted Aggregates aggregations Ratio, in pence, calculated by dividing the consolidated profit after Accumulations of insurance loss exposures which result from tax by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued, underwriting multiple risks that are exposed to common causes of loss.
excluding shares issued by the group.
For calculating diluted EPS, the number of shares and profit or loss for the year is adjusted for Aggregate excess of loss all dilutive potential ordinary shares like share options granted to The reinsurer indemnifies an insurance company the reinsured employees.
for an aggregate or cumulative amount of losses in excess of a specified aggregate amount.
Excess per risk reinsurance A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified A. M. Best rating limit, indemnifies the reinsured company against the amount of loss A. M. Best is a worldwide insurance-rating and information agency in excess of a specified retention with respect to each risk involved whose ratings are recognised as an ideal benchmark for assessing the in each loss.
financial strength of insurance related organisations, following a rigorous quantitative and qualitative analysis of a companys balance Expense ratio sheet strength, operating performance and business prole.
A. M. Best Ratio, in percent, sum of expenses for acquisition of insurance has more than 100 years of experience and ofces located in the US, contracts and administrative expenses to net earned premiums.
Beazley Group plc obtained an A rating, while BICI received a rating of A. Facultative reinsurance A reinsurance risk that is placed by means of separately negotiated Binding authority contract as opposed to one that is ceded under a reinsurance treaty.
A contracted agreement between a managing agent and a coverholder under which the coverholder is authorised to enter Gross premiums written into contracts of insurance for the account of the members of the Amounts payable by the insured, excluding any taxes or duties levied syndicate concerned, subject to specified terms and conditions.
on the premium, including any brokerage and commission deducted by intermediaries.
Capacity This is the maximum amount of premiums that can be accepted by a Hard market syndicate.
Capacity also refers to the amount of insurance coverage An insurance market where prevalent prices are high, with restrictive allocated to a particular policyholder or in the marketplace in general.
terms and conditions offered by insurers.
Catastrophe reinsurance Horizontal limits A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to specified limits, Reinsurance coverage limits for multiple events.
indemnifies the reinsured company for the amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation Individual capital assessment ICA of losses resulting from a catastrophic event or series of events.
Beazleys ICA is an estimation of the capital the business needs so that it can absorb unexpected losses.
This assessment takes account Claim of losses that can arise from all major sources of risk: underwriting, Demand by an insured for indemnity under an insurance contract.
investment, credit, liquidity, operational and group.
The ICA is signed off by the board.
Claims ratio Ratio, in percent, of net insurance claims to earned premiums.
Incurred but not reported IBNR These are anticipated or likely claims that may result from an insured Combined ratio event although no claims have been reported so far.
Ratio, in percent, of the sum of net insurance claims, expenses for acquisition of insurance contracts and administrative expenses to net International accounting standards IAS international financial earned premiums.
This is also the sum of the expense ratio and the reporting standards IFRSs claims ratio.
Standards formulated by the IASB with the intention of achieving internationally comparable financial statements.
Since 2002, the Coverholder managing general agent standards adopted by the IASB have been referred to as IFRSs.
A rm either in the UK or overseas authorised by a managing agent Until existing standards are renamed, they continue to be referred under the terms of a binding authority to enter into contracts of to as IAS.
insurance in the name of the members of the syndicate concerned, subject to certain written terms and conditions.
A Lloyds broker acts Lead underwriter as a coverholder.
The underwriter of a syndicate who is responsible for setting the terms of an insurance or reinsurance contract that is subscribed by more Deferred acquisition costs than one syndicate and who generally has primary responsibility for Costs incurred for the acquisition or the renewal of insurance policies handling any claims arising under such a contract.
e. g. brokerage, premium levy and staff related costs which are capitalised and amortised over the term of the contracts.
Beazley Annual Report 2006 91 Glossary continued Line Reinstatement premiums The proportion of an insurance or reinsurance risk that is accepted The restoration of cover following its exhaustion as a result of a loss by by an underwriter or which an underwriter is willing to accept.
payment of an additional reinstatement premium.
Many reinsurances provide for one or more automatic reinstatement of covers.
Lloyds Lloyds is the worlds leading specialist insurance market and expects to Retention limits have the capacity to write approximately 16.1bn of business in 2007.
Limits imposed upon underwriters for retention of exposures by the It occupies sixth place in terms of global reinsurance premium income, group after the application of reinsurance programmes.
and is the second largest surplus lines insurer in the US.
In 2007, 66 syndicates are underwriting insurance at Lloyds, covering all classes Return on equity ROE of business from more than 200 countries and territories worldwide.
Ratio, in percent calculated by dividing the consolidated profit after tax by the average total equity.
Long tail This refers to a type of insurance where claims may be made many Risk years after the period of the insurance has expired.
Liability insurance This term may variously refer to: is an example of long tail business.
The possibility of some event occurring which causes injury or loss: Managed syndicate The subject-matter of an insurance or reinsurance contract: or The combination of syndicates 2623 and 623 through which the An insured peril.
Short tail Managing agent A type of insurance where claims are usually made during the term A company that is permitted by Lloyds to manage the underwriting of the policy or shortly after the policy has expired.
is an example of short tail business.
Medium tail Soft market A type of insurance where the claims may be made three to five years An insurance market where prevalent prices are low, and terms and after the period of insurance has expired.
conditions offered by insurers are less restrictive.
Net assets per share Stamp capacity Ratio, in pence, calculated by dividing the net assets total equity The volume of business measured in gross written premiums net of by the weighted average number of shares issued.
acquisition costs underwritten by the group through its managed syndicates at Lloyds of London.
Net premiums written Net premiums written is equal to gross premiums written less outward Surplus lines insurance reinsurance premiums written.
These are insurance risks that have been certied by a local broker as having been declined by a prescribed number usually three or four pro-rata reinsurance of licensed insurers in a given state in the US and which therefore can A generic term describing quota share and surplus share reinsurance be underwritten as surplus lines.
in which the reinsurer shares a proportional part of the ceded insurance liability, premiums, and losses of the ceding company.
Total shareholders return TSR Also known as participating reinsurance and proportional reinsurance.
The increase in the share price plus the value of any dividends paid and proposed during the year.
Provision for outstanding claims Provision for claims that have already been incurred at the balance Treaty reinsurance sheet date but have either not yet been reported or not yet been fully A reinsurance contract under which the reinsurer agrees to offer and settled.
to accept all risks of certain size within a dened class.
Rate Unearned premiums reserve The premium expressed as a percentage of the sum insured or limit The portion of premium income in the business year that is of indemnity.
attributable to periods after the balance sheet date is accounted for as unearned premiums in the underwriting provisions.
Reinsurance to close RITC A reinsurance which closes a year of account by transferring the Vertical limits responsibility for discharging all the liabilities that attach to that year Reinsurance coverage limits which exceed the groups retention limits.
of account and any year of account closed into that year plus the right to any income due to the closing year of account into an open year of account in return for a premium.
92 Beazley Annual Report 2006 Designed and produced by Loewy Group 44 0 20 7798 2000 Beazley Group plc Plantation Place South 60 Great Tower Street London EC3R 5AD T: 44 0 20 7667 0623 F: 44 0 20 7674 7100 www.
