The accounts B17234 R&A 2006 BACK 23 2 07 17:12 Page 82 82 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 Shareholder Information Financial calendar 2007 our www.
Those Electronic communications 13 Feb Results for 2006 announced shareholders in the BBNA who do not currently The Company has set up a facility for 24 Apr Annual General Meeting elect to receive these documents can request shareholders to take advantage of electronic 26 Jul Interim results for 2007 announced to do so at any time by calling the Registrar communications.
The Summary Financial receive notification of shareholder Ordinary dividend Statement is available in large print, Braille and documents electronically.
21Mar Ex-dividend date audio tape format.
To request a copy call the 23Mar Record date Shareholder Helpline on 0870 703 0003.
To cast your AGM vote online log on to 13 Apr Return date for DRIP elections www.
com voting uk and 04 May Payment of final dividend for 2006 ShareGift complete the following steps: 22Aug Ex-dividend date Many investors find themselves owning choose the Bradford & Bingley meeting 24 Aug Record date parcels of shares in quantities so small that you will need to enter your SRN and the unique 14 Sep Return date for DRIP elections it would cost more to sell them than they are PIN number printed on your voting form 05 Oct Payment of interim dividend for 2007 worth.
They may therefore be too small to do enter your choices on screen.
anything with, but may still bring a tax liability Interest payments on any dividends paid, unwanted annual To register your e-mail address so that future 13% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds reports and other documents.
shareholder information can be made available 07 Apr Payment of interest to you electronically log on to www.
co. uk 07 Oct Payment of interest Bradford & Bingley plc supports ShareGift, and complete the following steps: which is administered by The Orr Mackintosh click on Shareholder e-Services 11.625% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds Foundation registered charity number enter the required information and click on 20 Jan Payment of interest 1052668.
Any shares that you donate to submit.
You will need your SRN located 20 Jul Payment of interest ShareGift will be transferred into the name on your voting form or most recent tax of The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, who will voucher Internet aggregate them, sell them when possible click on submit again and register online.
Information about the Group can be found on and donate the proceeds to a growing list of the internet at www.
Since ShareGift was started in 1996, Electronic proxy appointment through CREST millions of pounds have been given to In addition to providing electronic voting and Share price hundreds of charities.
proxy appointment via our Registrars website, You are able to keep track of the share price the Company is supporting the CREST through the financial press, by visiting our If you would like to participate in the electronic proxy appointment service.
Please Group website at www.
co. uk or by calling ShareGift scheme, or receive more see the notes on the proxy voting form for the Shareholder Helpline on 0870 703 0003. information about the scheme visit their details of how to use this service.
co. uk, call Share dealing service 0207 828 1151, or write to The Orr Advisers To buy or sell Bradford & Bingley shares call Mackintosh Foundation, 46 Grosvenor Auditor 0870 703 0003.
This service is provided by our Street, London W1K 3HN.
KPMG Audit Plc Registrar, Computershare and is available to 1 The Embankment, Neville Street all our shareholders.
Please have your Dividend payment methods Leeds LS1 4DW Securityholder Reference Number SRN ready You can choose one of the following methods: when making your call.
You will find this on elect to use your whole cash dividend to buy Financial adviser your voting form or your dividend documents.
additional Bradford & Bingley shares under Goldman Sachs International the Dividend Reinvestment Plan: Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet Street An internet share dealing service has also have cash dividends paid direct to a bank London EC4A 2BB been established with our Registrar.
Log on or building society account: or to www.
com dealing uk and have cash dividends paid in the form Registrar have your SRN ready.
A bank debit card will be of a cheque Computershare Investor Services PLC required if you wish to purchase shares.
P O Box 1913, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road The Company now offers a Dividend Bristol BS99 2PR For shareholders in the Bradford & Bingley Reinvestment Plan that allows you to use your Nominee Account BBNA a postal share whole cash dividend to buy additional shares Solicitor dealing service is also available.
Computershare Investor Herbert Smith contact the Registrar for details.
Services PLC administer the plan and you can Exchange House, Primrose Street find further information as well as join the plan London EC2A 2HS Useful contacts on the www.
com Investors UK For information about the Annual General website.
Stockbrokers Meeting AGM, shareholdings, dividends Citigroup Global Markets Limited and changes to personal details please You can elect to receive your dividends directly Canada Square, Canary Wharf contact the Registrar: Computershare Investor into a bank or building society account.
You London E14 5LB Services PLC, PO Box 1913, will receive one consolidated tax voucher The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 2PR each year.
This will contain the taxation details UBS Telephone: 0870 703 0003. of all dividends paid in that particular tax year.
1 Finsbury Avenue, If you wish to have dividends credited to a London EC2M 2PP Institutional investors may wish to contact bank or building society account, you will Investor Relations by calling 01274 554928. receive a form with the dividend payment enabling you to do this.
The Summary Financial Statement is posted to shareholders who have not requested a full Otherwise, dividends will be paid to you by version of the Annual Report & Accounts and cheque to the address held by the Registrar.
to those members of the BBNA who have requested to receive it, together with the AGM documents and a voting form.
A full version of the Annual Report & Accounts is available on The accounts B17234 R&A 2006 BACK 23 2 07 17:12 Page 83 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 83 Shareholders interests in shares at 31 December 2006 No.
Shareholder security If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Details of any sharedealing facilities that Over the last year many companies and make sure you get the correct name of the the company endorses are included in the share industry have become aware person and organisation: Bradford & Bingley plc mailings.
that their shareholders have received check that they are properly authorised by unsolicited phone calls or correspondence the FSA before getting involved.
You can More detailed information on this or similar concerning investment matters.
uk register: and activity can be found on the FSA website typically from overseas based brokers the FSA also maintains on its website a list http: www.
This who target UK shareholders offering of unauthorised overseas firms who are note is based on advice issued by the FSA to sell them what often turn out to be targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and the Institute of Chartered Secretaries worthless or high risk shares in US or UK and any approach from such organisations and Administrators.
They can be very persistent should be reported to the FSA so that this and extremely persuasive.
A 2006 survey list can be kept up to date and any other by the Financial Services Authority FSA appropriate action can be considered.
has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just If you deal with an unauthorised firm, the novice investor that has been duped in you would not be eligible to receive this way: many of the victims had been payment under the Financial Services successfully investing for several years.
The FSA can be We are not aware of Bradford & Bingley contacted by completing an online form at shareholders being targeted however be www.
uk pages doing regulated law very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers alerts overseas.
to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
