Governance B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 39 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 39 Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Report and a Corporate Governance respect of the Annual Report & Accounts Statement that comply with that law and and the Financial Statements those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & Accounts and the Group and The Directors are responsible for the parent Company Financial Statements in maintenance and integrity of the corporate accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK Company law requires the Directors to governing the preparation and dissemination prepare Group and Company Financial of financial statements may differ from Statements for each financial year.
Under that legislation in other jurisdictions.
law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS Steven Crawshaw as adopted by the European Union the EU Group Chief Executive and have elected to prepare the Company 12 February 2007 Financial Statements on the same basis.
The Group and Company Financial Statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Group and the Company and the performance of the Group for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 40 40 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 The accounts 41 Independent Auditors report 42 Consolidated income statement 43 Balance sheets 44 Statements of recognised income and expense 45 Cash flow statements 46 Notes to the financial statements Page Note Page Note 46 1.
Loans and advances to banks 70 30.
Loans and advances to customers 71 31.
Reconciliation of changes in equity 59 13.
Events after the balance sheet date 63 19.
