How to Invest As well as investing in British Assets Trust plc directly through a stockbroker, you can enjoy some additional benefits by investing through one of the savings plans run by F&C Asset Management plc.
You can enjoy the convenience of making regular savings by Direct Debit, take advantage of our tax-efficient ISA and PEP wrappers, receive a simple statement every six months and let us automatically reinvest your dividends for you... F&C Private Investor Plan F&C Child Trust Fund CTF A flexible, low cost way to invest with a lump sum F&C is a leading provider of childrens investment from 500 or regular savings from 50 a month.
plans and is currently the only provider to offer an investment trust based CTF.
F&C lnvestment Trust ISA born after 1 September 2002.
Invest up to 7,000 tax efficiently each year with.
a lump sum from 500 or regular savings from F&C Childrens lnvestment Plan 50 a month.
You can also transfer any existing Suitable for older children ineligible for a CTF, or if ISAs.
you need access to the funds before the child is 18.
This flexible plan can easily be written under.
F&C lnvestment Trust PEP trust to help reduce inheritance tax liability.
Although you can no longer invest in a PEP, you Investments can be made from a 250 lump sum can transfer existing PEPs without losing their tax or 25 a month.
Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and you may not receive back the full amount originally invested.
Tax rates and reliefs depend on the circumstances of the original investor.
Freedom from tax in an ISA or PEP applies directly to the investor.
Low charges All the plans are low cost and flexible.
When you buy or sell shares in these plans the dealing fee is only 0.2%.
0.5% Government stamp duty also applies on purchases.
There are no initial or exit charges.
The only annual management fee is on the ISA or PEP, which is 60 VAT no matter how many tax years ISAs you take out with F&C, or how many lSAs or PEPs you transfer.
The F&C Child Trust Fund has no initial charges, dealing charges or annual management fee.
How to invest For more information on any of these products, please contact F&Cs Investor Services Team: Or write to: Call us on 0800 136 420 F&C email at info@fandc.
com Freepost RLRY-LYSR-KYBU invest online at www.
com Clandeboyne Business Park West Circular Road Existing plan holders enquiry line Bangor BT19 1AR 0845 600 3030 Calls may be recorded.
The information on this page has been approved by F&C Management Limited which is a member of the F&C Asset Management Group and is  FSA.
