Filename: 824571 6.3d Time: 18:23:40 Date: 22 05 06 Checksum: 179348043 SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS AND ASSOCIATE British Telecommunications plc is the parent company of the group.
Brief details of its principal operating subsidiaries and associate at 31 March 2006, other than the company, all of which were unlisted unless otherwise stated, were as follows: Group interest Country b c Subsidiary undertakings Activity in allotted capital of operations d Albacom SpA Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary Italy c, d, f BT Americas Inc. Communication related services, systems integration and 100% common International products provider d BT Australasia Pty Limited Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary Australia 100% preference d, e BT C & SI France SA Systems integration and application development 100% ordinary France d BT Cableships Limited Cableship owner 100% ordinary International d BT Centre Nominee 2 Limited Property holding company 100% ordinary UK d BT Communications Ireland Limited Telecommunication service provider 100% ordinary Ireland d BT Communications Management Limited Telecommunication service provider 100% ordinary UK BT ESPANA, Compania fide Servicios Globales fide Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary Spain d Telecommunicaciones, S. A. d BT Fleet Limited Fleet management company 100% ordinary UK d BT France SAS Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary France d BT Germany GmbH & Co. oHG Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary Germany d BT Global Services Limited International telecommunication network systems provider 100% ordinary UK BT Holdings Limited Investment holding company 100% ordinary UK d BT Hong Kong Limited Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary Hong Kong 100% preference d BT Limited International telecommunication network systems provider 100% ordinary International d BT Nederland NV Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary Netherlands BT Subsea Cables Limited Cable maintenance and repair 100% ordinary UK BT US Investments LLC Investment holding company 100% ordinary USA d Communications Networking Services UK Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary UK c, d Communications Global Network Services Limited Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary International cd Farland BV Provider of trans-border bre network across BTs partners 100% ordinary International in Europe d Infonet Services Corporation Global managed network service provider 100% common USA d Infonet USA Corporation Global managed network service provider 100% common USA d Radianz Americas Inc Global managed network service provider 100% common USA Syntegra Limited Systems integration and application development 100% ordinary UK d Syntegra Groep BV Systems integration and application development 100% ordinary Netherlands a The group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list, therefore, only includes those companies that have a significant impact on the profit or assets of the group.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the companys next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies.
b The proportion of voting rights held corresponds to the aggregate interest percentage held by the holding company and subsidiary undertakings.
c All overseas undertakings are incorporated in their country of operations.
Subsidiary undertakings operating internationally are all incorporated in England and Wales, except Farland BV, BT Americas Inc and Communications Global Network Services Limited which are incorporated in the Netherlands, the USA and Bermuda respectively.
d Held through intermediate holding company.
e In August 2005, Syntegra SA changed its name to BT C & SI France S. A. f In March 2006, Syntegra USA Inc was merged into BT Americas Inc. Share capital Percentage Country a b Associate Activity Issued owned of operations c Tech Mahindra Limited Telecommunication service provider 101,413,455 43% India a Issued share capital comprises ordinary or common shares, unless otherwise stated.
b Incorporated in the country of operations.
c In February 2006, Mahindra British Telecom Limited changed its name to Tech Mahindra Limited.
Subsidiary undertakings and associate British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 103
