62 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Portfolio valuation methodology A description of the methodology used to value the companys portfolio is Earnings multiple set out below.
The methodology is based on IAS 39 Financial Instruments: This methodology involves the application of an earnings multiple to the Recognition and Measurement and the International private equity and earnings of the business being valued in order to derive a value for the venture capital valuation guidelines issued by the AFIC, BVCA and EVCA.
It is likely to be appropriate for an investment in an established business with an identifiable stream of continuing earnings that can be Basis of valuation considered to be maintainable.
It may also be applicable to companies Investments are reported at the directors estimate of fair value at the with negative earnings, if the losses are considered to be temporary and a reporting date.
Fair value represents the amount for which the directors normalised level of maintainable earnings can be identified.
consider that an asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing When using the earnings multiple method, earnings before interest and tax parties in an arms length transaction.
EBIT are normally used, adjusted to a maintainable level and taxed at the standard tax rate.
Generally, the latest full year historical accounts are used General unless reliable estimated or forecast results are available.
An appropriate In estimating fair value, we seek to use a methodology that is appropriate in multiple is applied to these earnings.
Normally the multiple will be the light of the nature, facts and circumstances of the investment.
Methodologies average taxed EBIT multiple for a comparable quoted company, the are applied consistently from period to period, except where a change would weighted average of a number of companies or the relevant sector of the result in a better estimation of fair value.
Given the uncertainties inherent in FTSE All-Share index.
estimating fair value, a degree of caution is applied in exercising judgments and making the necessary estimates.
Net assets This methodology is likely to be appropriate for a business whose value Quoted investments derives mainly from the underlying value of its assets rather than its Investments quoted in an active market are valued at their bid price on the earnings, such as property holding companies and investment businesses.
When a bid price is unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction will normally be used.
This methodology may also be appropriate for a business that is not making an adequate return on assets and for which a greater value can be realised Unquoted investments by liquidating the business and selling its assets.
In the context of private The fair value is estimated as follows: equity, it may therefore be appropriate, in certain circumstances, for valuing investments in loss-making companies and companies making only The enterprise value is determined using an appropriate valuation marginal levels of profits.
methodology adjusted for surplus assets, excess or unrecorded liabilities and other relevant factors as appropriate.
The net assets methodology derives an enterprise value using appropriate measures to value the assets and liabilities, including contingent assets and Any financial instruments ranking ahead of the highest instrument held liabilities, of a business.
by the company is deducted from the enterprise value.
An appropriate marketability discount is applied to give the net Marketability discount attributable enterprise value.
The marketability discount relates to an investment rather than to the underlying business and reflects the compensation that willing buyers The net attributable enterprise value is apportioned between the will demand for the risk arising from the lack of marketability.
The relevant financial instruments according to their rankings and allocated marketability will vary from situation to situation and will generally be the companys holding in each financial instruments, representing their between 10% and 30%.
Some of the factors that will be considered in determining the marketability For most unquoted investments, the fair value is based on the price of discount are the closeness to a realisation event, the investors influence over recent investment, earnings multiple or net assets valuation methodologies.
the timing of realisation and the difficulty and risk of actions required to put the business into a saleable condition.
Price of recent investment Where the investment being valued was itself made recently, its cost will Investment funds generally provide a good indication of fair value.
Where there has been any The fair value of non-equity investment funds is generally estimated from recent investment in the investee company, the price of that investment will the latest net asset value provided by the fund manager or the fair value provide a basis of the valuation.
Where the price at which a third party has of underlying investments adjusted for other net assets or liabilities or invested is being considered as the basis of valuation, the background to the contingent assets or liabilities of the fund.
transaction will be taken into account to indicate whether or not the price was wholly representative of the fair value at the time.
This methodology is likely to be appropriate only for a limited period after the date of the relevant transaction.
The length of period for a particular investment will depend on the specific circumstances of the case, but a period of one year is usually applied.
