Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 63 Notice of annual general meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the seventy-seventh annual general 10.
THAT the directors be authorised to agree the auditors remuneration.
meeting of Caledonia Investments plc will be held at the Crowne Plaza 11.
THAT the authority conferred on the directors by article 11 of the London-St James Hotel, 45-51 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6AF on companys articles of association be renewed for a period expiring at 20 July 2006 at 11.30 a. m. for the purposes of considering and, if thought the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company fit, passing the following resolutions, which, in the case of resolution 12, after the date on which this resolution is passed and for that period the will be proposed as a special resolution and, in the case of all of the other section 80 amount shall be 1,068,400. resolutions, will be proposed as ordinary resolutions: 12.
THAT the power conferred on the directors by article 12 of the 1.
THAT the directors report and the accounts for the year ended companys articles of association be renewed for a period expiring at 31 March 2006, together with the auditors report to the members, the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company be received and adopted.
after the date on which this resolution is passed and for that period the section 89 amount is 160,260.
THAT the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2006 be approved.
THAT a final dividend of 20.5p per ordinary share be approved By order of the board and declared.
THAT Mr D G F Thompson be re-elected as a director of the company.
THAT Mr J M May be re-elected as a director of the company.
THAT Mr T C W Ingram be re-elected as a director of the company.
THAT the Hon C W Cayzer be re-elected a director of the company.
THAT Mr J R H Loudon be re-elected a director of the company.
THAT KPMG Audit Plc be re-appointed as the companys auditors until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the company at which the accounts of the company are laid.
A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint one or more proxies to 5.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST Proxy Voting attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
Service may do so for the annual general meeting and any adjournment s of the meeting by 2.
For shareholders registered on the companys UK main register, to be valid, a form of proxy using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST must be deposited, so as to be received no later than 11.30 a. m. on 18 July 2006, with the sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service companys UK registrars, Capita Registrars, by one of the following methods: i by post or by provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able hand during normal business hours to the address provided for such purpose in such form of to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
proxy: ii electronically at www.
com using the investor code printed on the In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the form of proxy: or iii in the case only where ordinary shares are held in CREST as an appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in alternative to methods i and ii, via the CREST Proxy Voting Service.
A form of proxy accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such accompanies this document.
Completion of a form of proxy does not preclude a member instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes from attending and voting at the meeting.
the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed 3.
For shareholders registered on the companys New Zealand branch register, to be valid, a proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the companys agent, form of proxy must be deposited, so as to be received no later than 10.30 p. m. on 18 July Capita Registrars ID RA10, by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the 2006, with the companys New Zealand registrars, Computershare Investor Services Limited, notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by one of the following methods: i by post to the address provided for such purpose in by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the such form of proxy: or ii by personal delivery to Computershare Investor Services Limited, companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by Level 2, 159 Hurstmere Road, Takapuna, North Shore City.
A form of proxy accompanies this CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be document.
Completion of a form of proxy does not preclude a member from attending and communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, 4.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the company should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any specifies that only those shareholders holding ordinary shares who are entered on the particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to registers as at 6.00 p. m. on 18 July 2006 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned registers 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting s, shall be entitled to attend to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has and or vote in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their names at that time.
appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service Changes to the entries on the registers after 6.00 p. m. on 18 July 2006 or, in the event that provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted the meeting is adjourned, on the registers 48 hours before the time of any adjourned by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, meeting s, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, the meeting s, notwithstanding any provisions in any enactment, the articles of association to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system of the company or other instrument to the contrary.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The register of directors interests is available for inspection at the registered office of the company and at the annual general meeting venue for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting itself until its conclusion.
The biographies of those directors seeking re-election are set out on pages 22 and 23 of the annual report.
