34 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Accounting policies General information Investments Caledonia Investments plc is an investment trust company incorporated Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a in England.
The address of its registered office is Cayzer House, purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require 30 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6NN.
The ordinary shares of the delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market company are listed on the London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges.
concerned, and are initially measured at cost, excluding transaction costs.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the Investments held as part of the groups business of investing in financial currency of the primary economic environment in which Caledonia operates.
assets are designated as measured at fair value through profit and loss in both the consolidated financial statements and the company financial These financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on statements.
Other investments held by subsidiaries are designated as 31 May 2006. available for sale in the consolidated financial statements.
Other investments in subsidiaries held by the company are accounted for at cost in the financial Significant accounting policies statements of the company.
Statement of compliance These financial statements have been prepared for the first time in Investments designated as at fair value through profit or loss or as available accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as for sale are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Gains and adopted for use in the EU.
IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued by losses arising from changes in the value of investments designated as fair the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and its predecessor value through profit or loss are included in net profit or loss for the period.
body as well as interpretations issued by the International Financial For available for sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and its predecessor body.
fair value are recognised directly in equity until the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss Basis of preparation previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the In preparing these financial statements, Caledonia has elected to take period.
If, in the subsequent period, the fair value of the available for sale advantage of certain transitional provisions within IFRS 1 First-time investments, for which impairment was previously recognised, increases in Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, which offer value, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
exemption from applying IFRSs retrospectively.
The exemptions that the Quoted investments are valued at bid price or the last traded price when a company has relied on are: bid price is not available.
Unquoted investments are valued using recognised IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates where the valuation methodologies, based on the International Private Equity and cumulative translation differences for foreign operations has been Venture Capital Guidelines, which reflect the amount for which an asset accounted for prospectively from the date of transition to IFRS.
could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties on an arms length basis.
The portfolio valuation methodology is detailed on page 62.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations where business combinations that occurred before the date of transition to IFRS have not been restated to Income comply with the requirements of the standard.
Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as revenue for the In addition, Caledonia has adopted the Amendment to IAS 39 The Fair period on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, Value Option and Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits with effect dividends receivable on or before the period end are treated as revenue for from 1 April 2004, ahead of their effective date, being 1 April 2006. the period.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
The fixed returns on debt securities and non-equity shares are recognised The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the to IFRS are given in note 32. debt securities and shares.
Interest receivable from cash and short term The company will be required to comply with IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: deposits is accrued to the end of the period.
Disclosure and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures For trading subsidiaries, revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of in its financial statements next year.
Management has not yet assessed the goods and services, net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts and after impact of these disclosure requirements on the financial statements.
eliminating sales within the group.
Sales of goods are recognised when Caledonia is an investment trust company.
However, because it holds majority goods are delivered and title has passed.
Sales of services are recognised in stakes in certain investments, it is required to prepare group accounts that the accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference to consolidate the results of such investments.
In order to present information completion of the specific transaction, assessed on the basis of the actual that is comparable with other investment trust companies, Caledonia also service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
publishes financial statements of the company, which include investments in The companys share of net income receivable by investment limited subsidiaries regarded as part of the companys investing business at fair value.
partnerships is recognised as revenue for the period on an accruals basis.
Foreign currency translation Expenses Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange ruling All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses of acquisition at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in of an investment designated as held at fair value through profit or loss or foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to the functional expenses of an aborted acquisition of an investment are presented as currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign transaction costs and expenses of disposal of an investment are deducted exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income from the disposal proceeds of the investment.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated to the functional currency Taxation using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value deferred tax.
are translated to the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement Assets and liabilities of the groups overseas operations are measured using because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or their functional currency, being the currency of the primary economic deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never environment in which they operate.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups overseas operations using tax rates that were applicable at the balance sheet date.
are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly.
Exchange differences statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the groups foreign taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Such exchange differences are recognised in Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences the income statement in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated differences can be utilised.
Investment trusts which have approval as such at the closing rate.
under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 35 The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet Capital reserve date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient The company maintains a capital reserve, which it is prohibited from taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
distributing by virtue of its articles of association.
The following items are accounted for in the capital reserve of the company: Dividend distribution Gains and losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Interim and final dividends are recognised in the period in which they are declared.
Gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge the fair value of investments.
Employee benefits Expenses and finance costs incurred directly in relation to the capital Pension schemes transactions.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
In accordance with the companys articles of association, the company is permitted to utilise this reserve for share repurchases.
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with Property, plant and equipment actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
They are recognised outside of the income statement and are presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land or properties under construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits straight-line method, on the following bases: are already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
Property 25-40 years Plant 10-15 years The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet Equipment 3-8 years represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and as reduced by the fair value of Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in the relevant lease.
future contributions to the plan.
The gain or loss on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the Profit-sharing and bonus plans asset and is recognised in the income statement.
The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and profitsharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit Investment property attributable to the companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals and or for capital The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where appreciation, is stated at its fair value at the balance sheet date.
Gains and there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are included in the income statement for the period in which they arise.
Share-based payment The group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Brands and trademarks to all grants of equity instruments, including those granted on or before Brands and trademarks acquired by the group are stated at cost less 7 November 2002, for which the fair value has been publicly disclosed on accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is on a the companys website.
straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of 20 years.
The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of Goodwill grant and the fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of period, based on the groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly Fair value is measured by use of a trinomial model.
The model takes account controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
of the early exercise behaviour of employees by assuming that exercise takes place whenever the stock price reaches a certain multiple of the strike price.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least The model also considers the possibility that employees will leave the annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is company early, before and after the vesting period.
An ESOP trust is used for distributing option shares to employees under On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the Caledonias share remuneration schemes.
The trustee purchases shares with attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the money lent interest free by Caledonia and transfers shares to participating profit or loss on disposal.
employees on receipt of the requisite consideration.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has The transactions the ESOP trust undertakes are considered to be performed been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for by the trust as an agent for Caledonia.
The transactions of the ESOP are impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP included in the separate financial statements of the parent company and, prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any following the requirements of SIC 12, in the consolidated financial statements subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
as if they arose in that company.
Own shares held by the ESOP trust as at the balance sheet date are accounted for as if they were treasury shares.
Impairment of assets At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of its National Insurance on share option scheme gains tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that National Insurance contributions payable on the exercise of certain employee those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, an share options at the date of exercise have been charged as an expense.
impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying The charge is based on the difference between the market value of the amount exceeds its recoverable amount, if any.
The recoverable amount is the underlying shares at the balance sheet date and the option exercise price higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes and calculated at the latest enacted National Insurance contributions rate.
of assessing impairment, intangible assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
36 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Accounting policies continued Inventories Segment reporting Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost A segment is a distinguishable component of the group that is engaged comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and either in providing products or services business segment, or in providing those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their products or services within a particular economic environment geographical present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the first-in, first-out segment, which is subject to risks and rewards that are different from those method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all of other segments.
estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Properties that are held for sale in the ordinary course of business or are The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of being developed for future sale are classified as inventories.
the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries made up to the balance sheet date.
Control is achieved where the company has Receivables the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee Receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
On acquisition, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a Cash and cash equivalents subsidiary are measured at fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency in the cost of acquisition below the amounts of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
The interest of Borrowings minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums the minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted interests of the parent.
for on an accrual basis to the income statement using the effective interest The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
The effective interest acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
method allocates the interest expense over the life of the instrument so as to reflect a constant return on the carrying amount of the liability.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used Borrowings include a component of the companys deferred ordinary shares by the group.
and preference shares in subsidiaries held by third parties that fall under the definition of financial liabilities under IAS 32.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the company has a present Associates legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the significant influence, but not control or joint control, through the financial effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future and operating policy decisions of the investee.
cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time As Caledonia is an investment trust company, and its investments held value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
in associates are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss, the provisions of IAS 28 Investments in Associates do not apply.
Such Share capital investments are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded at the proceeds recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they occur.
received, net of direct issue costs.
No other group company held investments in associates.
Where any group company and the Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust purchases the companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, Joint ventures including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties deducted from equity attributable to the companys equity holders until the undertake an economic activity that is the subject of joint control.
shares are cancelled, reissued or sold.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable As Caledonia is an investment trust company, and its interests in joint ventures incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss, the provisions of in equity attributable to the companys equity holders.
IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures do not apply.
Such interests are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss in the period Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting in which they occur.
However, the provisions of IAS 31 do apply to interests Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered into in joint ventures held by other companies in the group, as set out below.
and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The results and assets and liabilities of joint ventures are incorporated in Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are these financial statements using the equity method of accounting, except designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised when classified as held for sale.
Interests in joint ventures are carried in the directly in equity and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the groups the income statement.
The amount in equity is released to income when share of net assets of the joint ventures, less any impairment in the value of the forecast transaction impacts profit or loss.
Losses of the joint ventures in excess of the groups interest in those joint ventures are not recognised.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups share of the fair values being hedged, with the corresponding entry in the income statement.
Gains of the identifiable net assets of the joint ventures at the date of acquisition is or losses from re-measuring the derivative, or the fair value movement of recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency in the cost of acquisition below the the entire component of the risk that is being hedged for non-derivatives, groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets at the date of are recognised in the income statement.
acquisition is credited in profit or loss in the period of acquisition.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments where hedge Where a group company transacts with joint ventures of the group, profits accounting is not applied are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the relevant joint ventures.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument or the transferred, in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
hedged item expires or is sold, terminated, exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
