26 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Directors responsibility statement The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the group The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the and regulations.
parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
They have general Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as other irregularities.
adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a directors report, directors remuneration report and the The group and parent company financial statements are required by law corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the regulations.
group and the parent company and the performance for that period.
The Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
