SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Final Dividend Payment Details Dividend Mandate A list of the key dates leading to the payment of the final dividend is Using the BACS system, shareholders may choose to have dividends set out below: paid electronically into their bank or building society account.
This process ensures that the amount of the dividend is passed directly Shares quoted ex-dividend 28 March 2007 into their account, as cleared funds, on the date the payment is due.
Record date 30 March 2007 Last date for receipt of Dividend Reinvestment Plan Conrmation of these details will be contained in a dividend tax mandates to be included for the final dividend 23 April 2007 voucher which is posted to shareholders registered addresses at the Payment of final dividend 11.85p net 15 May 2007 time of payment.
This voucher should be kept for future reference.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan Shareholder Services and Helpline The Dividend Reinvestment Plan the plan allows shareholders to Shareholders who change address, want to have their dividends reinvest their cash dividend in shares bought on the London Stock paid direct into their bank or building society account, have a query Exchange through a specially arranged share dealing service.
on their shares, or who otherwise require information about their holding should contact the Customer Information Unit at The plan is run and administered by our Registrars, Computershare Computershare Investor Services PLC, Registrars, on the Investor Services PLC.
For legal reasons, the plan is available only shareholder information telephone line: 0870 889 4021. to shareholders resident in the UK excluding the Channel Islands, Alternatively, they should write to the Registrars at PO Box 82, The be they individuals or corporate shareholders.
If you have not Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7NH, indicating that they previously completed a mandate and wish to participate in the plan, are a Cattles plc shareholder.
you can do so by applying online at www.
com investor uk or you can request a copy of Computershare Investor Services PLC have introduced a facility the Terms and Conditions and Election Form by calling whereby shareholders in Cattles plc are able to access their Computershare on 0870 889 4021: in either case, you will need shareholdings over the internet subject to passing an identity check.
your Shareholder Reference Number, which is set out on your share You can access this service on their website at: certicate or dividend tax voucher.
New mandates must be received by close of business on 23 April 2007 to be included in the plan for the final dividend.
If you choose to join the plan, your cash dividend will be used to buy Cattles plc ordinary shares.
You will be charged a dealing commission of 0.5% of the value of shares purchased.
You will be required to pay stamp duty reserve tax at the prevailing rate currently 0.5%.
98 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006
