NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006 Standard and amendment that are not yet effective and have not been 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES early adopted Cattles plc the company is a public company domiciled in the The following standard and amendment to an existing standard UK.
Its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The have been published and are mandatory for accounting periods consolidated financial statements of the company for the year ended beginning on or after 1 January 2007 or later periods, but which 31 December 2006 comprise the company and its subsidiaries the group and the company have not early adopted: together referred to as the group.
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures, and the Statement of compliance complementary amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial These consolidated and company financial statements have been statements Capital disclosures.
This new and this amended prepared in accordance with IFRS and its interpretations issued by standard introduce new disclosures relating to financial the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, as adopted instruments.
They do not have any impact on the classication by the EU.
or valuation of financial instruments.
The new disclosures will be made in the groups and the companys financial statements Basis of preparation for the year ending 31 December 2007.
The financial statements are rounded to the nearest million to one decimal place.
They are prepared under the historical cost convention, Interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been early as modied by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments.
adopted, which are not expected to have an impact The following interpretations to existing standards have been The preparation of financial statements in conformity with published and are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and or after 1 March 2006 or later periods, but are not expected to assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported have an impact on the group or the company: amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29, various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the Financial reporting in hyperinationary economies circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment differ from these estimates.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 - Group and treasury share transactions IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in Consolidation the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only A business combination is recognised where separate entities that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the or businesses have been brought together within the group.
revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements made Subsidiaries are all entities over which the group has the power to by management in the application of IFRS that have a significant govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benets effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant from its activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 2 than 50% of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated on pages 47 and 48. from the date on which control is transferred to the group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
All subsidiaries The accounting policies set out below have been applied share the same reporting date, 31 December, as Cattles plc.
consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated and company financial statements.
The accounting policies have been The purchase method of accounting is used to account for applied consistently by group entities.
business combinations made by the group.
The cost of a business combination is measured as the fair value of the assets acquired, Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2006 but which equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the had no impact date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the business The following standards, amendments and interpretations to combination.
existing standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006, but they have had no Contingent consideration is included in the cost of a business impact on the group or the company: combination at the acquisition date only if the consideration is probable and can be reliably measured, and is discounted using IAS 21 Amendment Net investment in a foreign operation an appropriate discount rate.
If the future events upon which the IAS 39 Amendment Cash ow hedge accounting of forecast contingent consideration is based do not occur or the estimate intra-group transactions needs to be revised or if contingent consideration, which had not IAS 39 Amendment The fair value option been initially included, does become probable and can be reliably IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Amendment Financial guarantee contracts measured, the cost of the business combination, and any associated IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources goodwill, is adjusted accordingly.
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease IFRIC 5 Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from participating in a specic market Waste electrical and electronic equipment 42 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Available-for-sale 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Available-for-sale investments are those intended to be held for an Identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired in the indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs business combination are measured initially at their fair values at for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the prices.
fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair The group has not held any held-to-maturity or available-for-sale value of the net assets acquired, the difference is credited to the financial assets at any point during the period.
income statement in the period of acquisition.
Loans and receivables are recognised when cash is advanced to Inter-company income, expenses, balances and unrealised gains or borrowers, or at the date of purchase in respect of acquired debt.
losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated on These assets are initially recognised at fair value plus direct and consolidation.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Segment reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged Purchases and sales of financial assets at fair value through profit in providing products or services that are subject to risks and or loss are recognised on the date of trade, the date on which the returns that are different from those of other business segments.
group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets at For management purposes, the group is organised into three fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised, and operating divisions, Consumer Credit, Debt Recovery and subsequently carried, at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from Corporate Services.
These divisions are, therefore, the basis on changes in the fair value of these financial assets are included in the which the group reports its primary segments.
income statement in the period in which they arise.
The groups financial assets at fair value through profit or loss relate solely to A geographical segment is a group of assets and operations engaged derivative instruments which cannot be designated as hedges.
in providing products or services within a particular economic Consequently, they are classied as derivative financial instruments environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different in the balance sheet within assets or liabilities dependent on the from those segments operating in other economic environments.
individual instruments fair value at the reporting date.
The groups operations are located only in the UK.
Management considers that all regions of the UK are subject to the same risks Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash and returns, such that no secondary geographic segments exist.
ows from the financial assets have expired or where the group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial assets Management determines the classication of the groups financial Revenue recognition assets at initial recognition into one of the following categories and Revenue comprises the fair value receivable for the sale of goods re-evaluates this designation at each reporting date: and services, net of value added tax, and is recognised as follows: Loans and receivables Interest income Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed Interest income is recognised in the income statement for all or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
financial assets measured at amortised cost using the effective They arise when the group provides money directly to a customer interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of with no intention of trading the receivable.
This classication calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and allocating includes advances made to customers under hire purchase the interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest agreements and acquired debt.
rate EIR is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash ows through the expected life, or contractual term if shorter, of Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss the financial asset to the net carrying amount of the financial This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for asset.
When calculating the EIR, the group estimates cash ows trading: and those designated at fair value through profit or loss considering all contractual terms of the financial instruments, such at inception.
A financial asset is classied as at fair value through as early settlement options, but does not include an expectation profit or loss if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the for future credit losses.
The calculation includes all fees charged to short-term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives refer to customers, such as acceptance or similar fees, and direct and the accounting policy entitled Derivative financial instruments and incremental transaction costs, such as broker commissions and hedging activities are also categorised as held for trading unless certain agents remuneration.
All income relating to payment they are designated as hedges.
protection insurance is regarded as being part of the groups economic return on the loans, hence the commission element is a Held-to-maturity constituent part of the EIR and is included within interest income.
Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments and xed maturities that In respect of acquired debt, the EIR calculation is based on an the group has a positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
estimate of expected collections from the debt and takes account Were the group to sell a significant amount of held-to-maturity of any initial costs, such as court fees.
assets the entire category would be tainted and reclassied as available-for-sale.
43 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued The group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment Amounts due from lessees under finance leases and hire purchase exists individually for loan assets that are individually significant, contracts are recorded as receivables at the amount of the groups and either individually or collectively for loan assets that are not net investment in the lease.
Finance income is allocated to individually significant.
accounting periods so as to reect a constant periodic rate of return on the groups net investment before tax outstanding in If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has occurred, respect of the lease.
the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future Interest income continues to be recognised at the EIR once a cash ows, excluding future credit losses that have not been financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been incurred, discounted at the loan assets original EIR.
The carrying written down as a result of an impairment loss, irrespective of amount of the asset is reduced through the use of a loan loss the terms of the loan and whether interest has been suspended provision.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the income on the customers account.
This is referred to as the gross-up statement as a loan loss charge within other cost of sales, except in adjustment to income and is offset by a corresponding gross-up the case of acquired debt, where any impairment adjustment is adjustment to the loan loss charge refer to the accounting policy taken to revenue.
entitled Impairment of loans and receivables.
For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, loan Brokerage and other income assets are grouped on the basis of similar credit risk characteristics.
The Consumer Credit division offers payment protection and Those characteristics are relevant to the estimation of future cash other insurance products, such as health, life and mechanical ows for groups of such assets by being indicative of the debtors breakdown insurance, to its customers for which a commission is ability to pay all amounts due according to the contractual terms of received from third party fronting insurers.
Future cash ows for a group of loan assets that are collectively evaluated for impairment are estimated As set out in the accounting policy entitled Interest income, on the basis of the contractual cash ows of the assets and historical commission received in relation to the sale of payment protection loss experience for assets with credit risk characteristics similar to insurance in included as part of the EIR of the associated loans.
Historical loss experience is adjusted on the Commission received for the brokering of the sale of other basis of current observable data to reect the effects of current insurance products, for which the group does not bear any conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss underlying insurance risk, is recognised and credited to the income experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the statement when the brokerage service has been provided.
historical period that do not exist currently.
Income from insurance profit share arrangements with the Where interest income continues to be recognised on impaired fronting insurer is recognised on an effective interest method in loans, which cannot be collected from the customer due to the respect of payment protection insurance and is recognised in line interest being xed at the outset or interest having been suspended with the incidence of risk in respect of other insurance products.
on the customers account, referred to as the gross-up adjustment to income, a corresponding loan loss charge is made.
This is Brokerage commissions charged to third party lenders for the referred to as the gross-up adjustment to the loan loss charge introduction of new customers are credited to the income refer to the revenue recognition accounting policy entitled statement when the service has been provided.
Brokerage and other income also includes fees and commissions Foreign currency translation charged to customers and third parties for the collection of debts, Functional and presentational currency fees charged for marketing insurance products and fees charged The groups financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, for the provision of invoice finance facilities, which are credited to which is the companys functional and presentational currency.
All the income statement when the service has been provided.
subsidiaries of the group have Pounds Sterling as their functional currency.
Sale of goods Sales of goods, principally cars, are recognised when the group Transactions and balances entity has delivered the product to the customer, the customer has Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional accepted the product and collectibility of the related receivable is currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the reasonably assured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period Impairment of loans and receivables end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated In respect of loans and receivables, including receivables under hire in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement as purchase contracts, the group assesses on an ongoing basis whether part of finance costs in relation to borrowings and as part of there is objective evidence that a loan asset or a group of loan assets administrative expenses in relation to other monetary assets and is impaired.
A loan asset or a group of loan assets is impaired and liabilities.
impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and the loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash ows of the loan asset or group of loan assets that can be reliably estimated.
44 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated Intangible assets using the straight line method to allocate the costs to their residual Goodwill values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Goodwill arising on acquisition represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over the fair values of the groups share Freehold buildings 2% pa of the identiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill is not amortised, Leasehold buildings 2% to 20% pa but is reviewed at least annually for impairment.
For the purpose Fixtures and office equipment 10% to 20% pa 1 of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating Computer hardware 20% to 33 3% pa units CGUs.
Each CGU is consistent with the groups primary Motor vehicles 20% pa reporting segments.
Any impairment is recognised immediately through the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying value is greater than its Up to 31 December 1997 under previous accounting policies, estimated recoverable amount.
goodwill arising on acquisitions was recognised as a deduction from equity.
On the subsequent disposal of any business to which Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds goodwill had been recognised as a deduction from equity, the with carrying amounts and are included in the income statement.
goodwill remains within equity and is not transferred to the income statement.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are initially recognised Computer software at cost.
The company recognises income from the investment only Acquired software licenses are capitalised as intangible assets and to the extent that it receives distributions from post-acquisition amortised over their useful lives 3-7 years on a straight line accumulated profits.
Distributions received in excess of such profits basis.
are regarded as a recovery of investment and recognised as a reduction in the cost of the investment.
Costs that are directly attributable with the creation of identiable software, which meet the development asset recognition criteria as At each reporting date, an assessment is made as to whether there laid out in IAS 38 Intangible assets, are recognised as internally is any indication that the investment may be impaired.
If such an generated intangible assets.
Direct costs include the employment indication exists, the company estimates the investments costs of internal software developers, consultancy costs and recoverable amount.
The investment is written down to the borrowing costs.
Borrowing costs are capitalised until such time recoverable amount if this is lower than its carrying value.
The as the internally generated software is substantially ready for its impairment loss is recognised in the companys income statement.
Inventories All other software development and maintenance costs are Inventories comprise vehicles held for resale and are stated at the recognised as an expense as incurred.
lower of actual cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less Computer software development costs recognised as assets are variable selling expenses.
amortised over their estimated useful lives 5-7 years on a straight line basis.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, Cash and cash equivalents and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
For the purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks with Property, plant and equipment maturity dates of less than 3 months, and bank overdrafts.
Bank Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities in the depreciation.
Cost represents expenditure that is directly balance sheet.
attributable to the purchase of the asset.
Certain land and buildings are held at previous revalued amounts less subsequent accumulated Provisions depreciation as these amounts have been taken as their deemed cost Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or as at the date of transition to IFRS 1 January 2004 in accordance constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely with the exemption under IFRS 1. than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably measured.
Land and buildings are not subject to regular revaluations.
Employee benets Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or Short-term benets recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is Wages, salaries, commissions, bonuses, social security probable that future economic benets associated with the items contributions, paid annual leave and non-monetary benets, will ow to the group and the cost of the item can be measured including death-in-service premiums, are accrued in the period reliably.
in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the group.
45 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued vesting period and is calculated by reference to the fair value of Pension obligations the shares or share options granted, excluding the effect of any The group has both a dened benefit and a number of dened non-market vesting conditions.
The assets of the dened benefit pension plan are held in a separate trustee administered fund.
In arriving at fair values, the Black-Scholes pricing model is used and various assumptions are made, for example, on expected The present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair forfeiture rates, dividend yields, share price volatility and risk free value of the plan assets is recognised in the balance sheet as the rates.
The estimate for the number of options that are expected to retirement benefit obligation.
This obligation is recognised in the become exercisable is revised at each balance sheet date.
Any companys balance sheet since this entity is the plans sponsoring impact from the revision of original estimates is recognised in the employer.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually by income statement over the remaining vesting period.
independent actuaries using the projected credit method.
The present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined by Share-based payment awards made by the company to employees discounting the estimated future cash ows using interest rates of subsidiary companies are reected in the financial statements of of high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity the company as an increase in the investments in subsidiary approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The undertakings with the corresponding credit being made in equity.
dened benefit obligation takes account of an allowance for the cash commutation option that members have at retirement, but On transition to IFRS, the group elected not to apply IFRS 2 to does not include a reserve for death-in-service benets or share awards granted before 7 November 2002, such that no non-investment related expenses.
expense has been or is being recognised for them in the income statement.
Consequently, on the vesting of these awards, the cost The fair value of plan assets is based on bid prices at each balance of the shares is recognised directly in retained earnings.
Leasing as lessee The total pension charge arising from the dened benefit scheme Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group has is included within administrative expenses.
Actuarial gains and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases or hire purchase actuarial assumptions are immediately recognised in the statement contracts are capitalised on inception of the agreement at an of recognised income and expense.
Past service costs are recognised amount equal to their fair value or, if lower, the present value of the immediately within the income statement, unless the changes to minimum lease payments.
The interest element of the lease cost is the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in charged to the income statement, within administrative expenses, service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of case, past service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases or hire For dened contribution plans, the group pays contributions into purchase contracts are depreciated over the shorter of the period of privately administered pension plans on a contractual basis.
The the agreement and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense as they fall due.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as operating leases.
Payments The group provides no other post-retirement benets to its made under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the employees or directors.
lessor, are charged to the income statement, within administrative expenses, on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Termination benets Termination benets are payable when employment is terminated Borrowings before the normal retirement date, or when an employee accepts Borrowings include bank borrowings, debenture loans and other voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The group borrowings, overdrafts and obligations under finance leases and hire recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably purchase contracts.
committed to either the termination of employment or a voluntary redundancy offer.
Bank borrowings, debenture loans and other borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of Share-based payments any transaction costs incurred.
These borrowings are subsequently The group operates a number of equity-settled share-based stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds, net of payment plans.
In respect of share awards granted after transaction costs, and the redemption value is recognised in the 7 November 2002 and not vested by 1 January 2005, in income statement over the period of the borrowings using the accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payment, an expense is effective interest method.
recognised in respect of the fair value of employee services received in exchange for the grant of shares or share options.
Current tax A corresponding amount is recorded as an increase in equity The charge for current tax is based on the results for the period as within retained earnings.
The expense is spread over any relevant adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates of tax that have been enacted by the balance sheet date.
46 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued To qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required, at inception, Deferred tax to document in advance the relationship between the item being Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on hedged and the hedging instrument.
The group is also required to temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows Deferred tax is recognised in the income statement except to the that the hedge will be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which values or cash ows of the hedged item on an ongoing basis.
This case it is recognised in equity.
effectiveness testing is re-performed at each reporting date to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when The effectiveness of hedging instruments is assessed using the the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability hypothetical derivative method.
This involves the comparison of is settled.
the changes in fair value of the hedging instrument to a hypothetical derivative which has critical terms that match the hedged item.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as highly effective temporary differences can be utilised.
fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income statement within finance costs, together with the change in the fair value of Share capital the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives Shares are recorded at their nominal value with any surplus received designated as cash ow hedging instruments is recognised in equity on their issue taken to the share premium account.
Incremental within the hedging reserve.
The change in the fair value relating to costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
Where the company purchases its own shares, being held by the Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income trustee of the employee benefit trust in respect of the Long-Term statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit, Incentive Plan and Restricted Share Scheme, the consideration paid, i. e. when the forecast interest payment that is hedged takes place.
including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity on consolidation.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or When a cash ow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable cash ow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, transaction costs, is also included in equity on consolidation.
These any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains transactions are classied as own shares held within other reserves.
in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast The consideration for the purchase of own shares paid by the transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or company is recognised as a receivable due from the trust within loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the trade and other receivables.
Dividend distribution If a fair value hedging instrument no longer meets the effectiveness Final dividends payable to the companys shareholders are recognised criteria, the adjustment to the carrying value of a hedged item, for in the groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends which the effective interest method is used, is amortised to income are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends over the period to maturity.
payable are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid.
KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY AND Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities JUDGEMENT Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the Loan loss provisioning derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured The group reviews its loans and receivables on an ongoing basis to at fair value.
The fair value of derivatives is determined by using a assess the level of impairment.
Future cash ows are estimated on valuation model and is primarily based on observable market data.
the basis of the contractual cash ows of the assets and historical The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss from the loss experience.
Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of re-measurement depends on whether the derivative is designated as current observable data to reect the effects of current conditions a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
that did not affect the period on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical The groups policy is to designate on the date that the derivative period that do not exist currently.
To the extent that the net present contract is committed to.
The group designates derivatives as: value of estimated future cash ows differs by - 1%, the loan loss provision in the balance sheet would be an estimated 21.1 million A hedge of the fair value of a liability fair value hedging lower or 21.1 million higher.
instrument, or A hedge of the cost of a highly probable forecast transaction or commitment cash ow hedging instrument.
47 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 2.
KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY AND stable funding platform and greater certainty and control over JUDGEMENT continued future funding costs.
It is not the policy of the group to trade in Goodwill impairment reviews such instruments.
The level of protection contracted for at any Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of particular time would not exceed the groups exposure to actual or the value in use of the cash generating units to which goodwill has projected borrowings, except in the event of short-term timing been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to differences.
Further details of the derivative instruments held are set estimate the future cash ows expected to arise from the cash out in note 24 on page 64. generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet The group maintains a mixture of long-term and short-term date was 39.5 million.
Details of the value in use calculation are committed facilities that are designed to ensure that the group provided in note 14 on page 55. has sufficient available funds for current operations and planned growth.
Details of the changes in the groups funding and headroom Retirement benefit obligation are set out in note 22 on page 62 and note 24 on page 66.
The valuation of the retirement benefit obligation is dependent upon a series of assumptions, the key ones being mortality rates, The group is careful to avoid building a concentration of facilities investment returns, salary ination, the rate of pension increases with a relatively small group of partners.
In order to avoid such a and the extent to which members take up the maximum tax free concentration the group has established funding in the bank, public commutation on retirement.
bond and US private placement markets.
Bank facilities currently include a syndicate of over 30 banking partners.
Mortality estimates are based on standard mortality tables, adjusted where appropriate to reect the groups own experience.
Credit risk and concentration The returns on xed interest investments are set to market yields The group takes on exposure to credit risk in respect of loans and at the valuation date to ensure consistency with the asset valuation.
receivables, which is the risk that a customer will be unable to pay The returns on UK and overseas equities are set by considering amounts in full when due.
Loan loss provisions are provided for the long-term expected returns on these asset classes using a losses that have been incurred at the balance sheet date.
significant combination of historical performance analysis, the forward looking changes in the economy could result in losses that are different from views of the financial markets as suggested by the yields available those provided for at the balance sheet date.
Management therefore and the views of investment organisations.
The salary ination and carefully manages its exposure to credit risk.
pension increase assumptions reect the long-term expectations for both earnings and retail price ination.
The assumption as to how At the time a loan is approved, direct repayment customers are many members will take up the maximum tax free commutation all in employment, have bank accounts and are able to repay their on retirement is based on the schemes own experience of borrowings via a direct debit payment.
in customer screening processes has been made in recent years, including the transfer of almost all customer selection and The principal assumptions used in the valuation of the retirement underwriting activities from branches to central processing units.
benefit obligation as at 31 December 2006 are set out in note 31 on All applications for direct repayment credit are initially screened page 75. centrally using a score card, which has been developed over many years in conjunction with a leading credit referencing agency and 3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT ensures consistency of underwriting decisions.
Applications which Strategy in using financial instruments successfully pass this screening are then subject to a rigorous The groups significant debt nancing and customer lending exposes pre-lending process, including the verication of information it to a variety of potential financial risks that include the effects of provided by potential customers and an assessment of other changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, liquidity financial commitments which the applicant may have, in order to and concentrations of both funding and customer credit.
The group confirm that the loan is both appropriate and affordable.
Exposure has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the to credit risk is managed in part with collateral obtained on adverse effects on the financial performance of the group by using certain products.
other financial instruments, such as interest rate and cross-currency swaps to x interest rates.
Should a customer experience a longer-term adverse change in their financial position, account management is transferred from the local The Board of directors has delegated, within limits, the policies branch to a specialist local collection unit LCU.
The LCU then for setting out the treasury risk management policies applied by establishes a revised repayment schedule more suited to the the group to the Treasury & Risk Director.
These policies are customers changed circumstances.
implemented directly by the treasury team on behalf of the group.
The team has a risk management policy that sets out specic Home collect customers continue to be served with small value, guidelines to manage interest rate, foreign exchange and credit risk short-term advances typically 300. Credit risk is managed and the use of financial instruments in relation to these.
through regular analysis of the ability of borrowers to meet repayments and credit limits are amended accordingly.
The groups long-standing treasury strategy of using appropriate financial derivative instruments to limit its exposure to interest rate The risks from a concentration of credit risk are limited due to the movements for borrowings remains in place.
At 31 December 2006, relatively low value of each customers debt and to the groups large around 80% of the groups total borrowings were protected against and unrelated customer base.
future interest rate volatility, for an average period of approximately four and a half years.
This strategy has provided the group with a 48 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Foreign currency risk Interest rate risk At 31 December 2006 the group had a US $110 million unsecured The group has minimal risk to revenue from changes in market loan note due for redemption at par in two parts in 2008 and 2011, interest rates as almost all customer lending is at rates of interest a further US $75 million unsecured loan note due for redemption at which are xed over the term of the contract.
The group has a par in two parts in 2011 and 2013 and a s6 million unsecured loan similar low risk to changes in market interest rates for current note due for redemption at par in 2013.
The group has a policy borrowing as around 8090% of total borrowings are protected that all foreign currency denominated borrowings are immediately against future interest rate volatility though the use of xed rate swapped into Sterling at the commencement of the facility borrowing in the case of public bonds, private placement loan agreement in order that the group is not exposed to currency rate notes, debentures, finance leases, hire purchase and other loans uctuations.
The group entered into foreign exchange contracts at or oating rate bank borrowings protected by interest rate swaps.
the inception of these borrowings to eliminate this risk.
As a consequence, a hypothetical 1% 100 basis points change in market interest rates at the balance sheet date would change the groups annual interest expense by around 3.5 million 2005: 2.0 million with no noticeable impact at all on the groups revenue and receivables cash ows.
SEGMENTAL REPORTING The segmental revenues and results for the year ended 31 December 2006 and segment assets and liabilities as at that date are as follows: Consumer Debt Corporate Credit Recovery Services Eliminations Group m m m m m Revenue External revenue 678.5 21.2 17.5 717.2 Inter-segment revenue 1.3 1.3 Total revenue 678.5 22.5 17.5 1.3 717.2 Inter-segment sales are entered into under normal arms length commercial terms and conditions.
Result Segment result 136.1 4.9 3.5 144.5 Central expenses 12.3 profit before taxation 132.2 Taxation 40.4 profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 91.8 Consumer Debt Corporate Credit Recovery Services Central Group m m m m m Segment assets and liabilities Segment assets 3,219.3 181.2 89.4 2,020.1 5,510.0 Unallocated 17.5 Eliminations 3,206.2 Total assets 2,321.3 Segment liabilities 2,874.6 180.3 77.6 1,941.6 5,074.1 Unallocated 36.5 Eliminations 3,206.2 Total liabilities 1,904.4 Other segment items Capital expenditure 25.3 0.3 0.5 0.1 26.2 Depreciation 6.4 0.1 0.2 0.1 6.8 Amortisation other intangible assets 3.5 0.1 3.6 Loan loss charge 190.1 1.3 191.4 The loan loss charge includes the gross-up adjustment of 17.0 million refer to note 8.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment note 16 and intangible assets note 15.
49 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 4.
SEGMENTAL REPORTING continued The segmental revenues and results for the year ended 31 December 2005 and segment assets and liabilities as at that date are as follows: Consumer Debt Corporate Credit Recovery Services Eliminations Group m m m m m Revenue External revenue 671.6 17.0 16.6 705.2 Inter-segment revenue 0.9 0.9 Total revenue 671.6 17.9 16.6 0.9 705.2 Result Segment result 117.9 2.8 4.7 125.4 Central expenses 10.3 profit before taxation 115.1 Taxation 34.6 profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 80.5 Consumer Debt Corporate Credit Recovery Services Central Group m m m m m Segment assets and liabilities Segment assets 1,826.6 86.0 76.5 1,576.0 3,565.1 Unallocated 21.0 Eliminations 1,660.2 Total assets 1,925.9 Segment liabilities 1,587.8 89.8 65.4 1,461.3 3,204.3 Unallocated 20.9 Eliminations 1,660.2 Total liabilities 1,565.0 Other segment items Capital expenditure 19.9 0.1 0.2 20.2 Depreciation 6.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 6.7 Amortisation other intangible assets 2.5 0.1 2.6 Loan loss charge 209.1 0.3 209.4 The loan loss charge includes the gross-up adjustment of 33.3 million refer to note 8.
PARENT COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT The consolidated profit includes 27.6 million 2005: 49.1 million, which has been dealt with in the financial statements of the company.
The company has taken advantage of section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and has not included its own income statement in these financial statements.
50 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
REVENUE 2006 2005 Group m m Interest income 529.9 519.2 Brokerage and other income 120.4 134.6 Sale of goods 66.9 51.4 717.2 705.2 Interest income includes amounts totalling 17.0 million 2005: 33.3 million which the group must continue to accrue in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition & measurement in respect of impaired loans.
This additional income, which cannot be collected from the customer due to the interest being xed at the outset or interest having been suspended on the customers account, referred to as the gross-up adjustment to income, is fully provided against as part of the loan loss charge refer to note 8.
FINANCE COSTS 2006 2005 Group m m Interest expense 97.3 85.4 Fair value movements on derivative instruments: Interest rate swaps 2.1 1.6 Cross-currency swaps 0.5 0.9 Other 1.9 2.2 97.6 88.3 Borrowing costs of 2.2 million 2005: nil were capitalised during the year as part of the cost of internally generated computer software, being the development of the Consumer Credit divisions IT and customer relationship management system.
These borrowing costs were calculated by applying an average capitalisation rate of 7.0% to the expenditure incurred in developing this qualifying software.
OTHER COST OF SALES 2006 2005 Group m m Loan loss charge 191.4 209.4 Cost of vehicles sold 47.1 39.9 Charge for inventory provision 0.3 Agents commission 14.1 15.0 Other 21.4 25.4 274.3 289.7 The loan loss charge for the year ended 31 December 2006 includes the gross-up adjustment of 17.0 million 2005: 33.3 million refer to note 6.
51 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 9.
SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE COMPANYS EXTERNAL AUDITOR During the year the group obtained the following services from the companys auditor: 2006 2005 m m Statutory audit services 0.4 0.4 Other assurance services 0.6 0.4 Total assurance services 1.0 0.8 Other services 0.6 0.7 Total auditor remuneration 1.6 1.5 The disclosure of auditor remuneration in accordance with Technical Release 06 06 is as follows: 2006 2005 m m Fees payable to the companys auditor for the audit of the companys annual accounts Company 2006: 40,000: 2005: 38,000 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 0.2 0.1 Other services relating to taxation: Compliance 0.2 0.1 Advisory 0.3 0.3 Services relating to information technology 0.1 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the company or any of its associates 0.3 All other services 0.1 0.6 Total other services 1.5 1.4 Total auditor remuneration 1.6 1.5 In addition to the above services, the companys external auditor acted as auditor to the Cattles Staff Pension Fund Limited pension scheme.
The appointment of the auditor to the groups pension scheme, and the fees paid in respect of such of 8,570 2005: 8,035, are agreed by the trustees of the scheme, acting independently from the management of the group.
In appointing the external auditor to carry out non-audit related services, and in setting their fees for such work, the directors have due regard to the groups policy in respect of non-audit related services as set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 89 and the benets, financial and non-financial, expected to be obtained.
In the opinion of the directors, these services should benefit the group in the future.
For the year ended 31 December 2006 all other services principally relate to distributable reserves planning work, whereas in 2005 these services primarily related to work performed in connection with the groups transition to IFRS.
The charges for audit and non-audit services are included within administrative expenses.
52 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10.
TAXATION 2006 2005 Analysis of group charge in the year m m Current tax: UK corporation tax at 30% 2005: 30% 35.3 0.6 Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.3 6.7 34.0 6.1 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of timing differences 4.9 35.2 Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.5 6.7 Total tax charge in the income statement 40.4 34.6 Current tax on items credited to equity Relating to share-based payments 0.8 Total 0.8 Deferred tax on items credited debited to equity Relating to cash ow hedges 3.7 1.3 Relating to retirement benefit obligation 2.2 2.0 Relating to share-based payments 0.5 Total 6.4 3.3 The standard rate of tax for the year, based on the UK standard rate of corporation tax, is 30% 2005: 30%.
The tax charge for the year is more than the tax on profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation: 2006 2005 m m profit on ordinary activities before tax 132.2 115.1 Tax on profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate 39.7 34.5 Factors affecting charge for the year: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.5 0.1 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous years 0.2 Total tax charge for the year 40.4 34.6 11.
DIVIDENDS 2006 2005 Group and Company m m Amounts recognised as distributed to equity holders in the year: Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 5.65p 2005: 5.05p 18.5 16.6 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2005 of 10.65p 2004: 9.45p 34.9 30.9 53.4 47.5 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 11.85p per share.
This dividend will be paid on 15 May 2007 to shareholders who are on the register at 30 March 2007.
The dividend will be recognised as an appropriation of the groups and companys profits in the six months ended 30 June 2007 and will absorb an estimated 39.0 million of shareholders funds.
Dividends of 0.2 million 2005: 0.2 million, in respect of the total dividend for 2006 of 17.50p per share, have been waived by the trustee of the employee benefit trust in respect of those shares held under the Long-Term Incentive Plan and Restricted Share Scheme.
53 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 12.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Wages and salaries 97.3 100.3 5.4 4.1 Social security costs 10.4 10.4 1.0 0.7 Pension costs dened benefit pension scheme note 31 2.2 2.2 Pension costs dened contribution pension schemes note 31 1.2 0.9 0.1 0.2 Share-based payments 2.8 2.6 0.9 0.9 Other benets 12.9 14.3 0.4 0.3 Total employee benets 124.6 130.7 7.8 8.4 Total employee benets includes a cost for termination benets of nil 2005: 1.5 million and nil 2005: 0.1 million for the year ended 31 December 2006 in relation to the group and company respectively.
Employee benets are charged to the income statement through administrative expenses, except those in relation to Home Collected agents, which are charged through other cost of sales.
The average monthly number of persons employed by the group 2006 2005 during the year was as follows: Number Number Consumer Credit 3,903 4,454 Debt Recovery 245 228 Corporate Services 139 134 Central 50 50 Total 4,337 4,866 Key management compensation Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Short-term employee benets 4.2 3.9 3.5 3.0 Post-employment benets 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.3 Share-based payments 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.8 Total 5.6 5.2 4.7 4.1 In addition to the directors of the company, key management of the group includes the managing directors of the principal subsidiaries.
1,686,801 shares were notionally held in respect of them at 31 December 2006 2005: 1,432,953.
During the year 748,641 shares 2005: 546,408 with an estimated fair value of 2.3 million 2005: 1.3 million were awarded to key management under these schemes.
In addition, certain members of key management have interests in the groups executive share option schemes.
At 31 December 2006 16,000 options previously granted to key management were outstanding 2005: 16,000 of which 16,000 2005: 16,000 were exercisable.
No options in these schemes 2005: 22,000 were exercised by key management during the year.
A detailed analysis of the emoluments of the companys directors, including salaries, benets in kind, performance related bonuses, share options, long-term incentives and pension arrangements, is provided in the section entitled Audited Information of the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 94 to 97 and forms part of these financial statements.
54 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding own shares held note 29 which are treated, for this purpose, as being cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below.
2006 2005 Weighted Weighted average average number of Earnings number of Earnings Earnings shares per share Earnings shares per share m m pence m m pence Shares in issue during the year 329.0 328.8 Own shares held 1.4 1.1 Basic EPS 91.8 327.6 28.01 80.5 327.7 24.56 Effect of dilutive securities: Options 0.4 0.03 0.5 0.04 Diluted EPS 91.8 328.0 27.98 80.5 328.2 24.52 14.
GOODWILL Group m Cost At 1 January 2005 46.6 Adjustment 0.5 At 1 January and 31 December 2006 46.1 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2005, 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2006 6.6 Net book amount At 1 January 2005, 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2006 39.5 Goodwill relates entirely to the groups Consumer Credit division and the impairment review performed as at 31 December 2006 demonstrates significant headroom.
The recoverable amount of goodwill is determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, growth rates, and expected changes to loan loss rates and direct costs.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the Consumer Credit division.
Changes in loan loss rates and direct costs are based on historic experience and expectations of short-term future changes in the market.
The group prepares a cash ow forecast derived from the approved budget for the following year and extrapolates this in line with historic long-term UK GDP growth.
The cash ows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 9.3%.
The company has no goodwill.
55 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 15.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Other intangible assets solely comprise computer software.
Group Company Internally Internally generated Acquired generated Acquired assets assets Total assets assets Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2005 0.8 21.3 22.1 0.1 0.1 Additions 1.2 13.7 14.9 Disposal of business 0.7 0.7 At 1 January 2006 2.0 34.3 36.3 0.1 0.1 Additions 19.0 2.7 21.7 Reclassications 9.9 9.8 0.1 At 31 December 2006 30.9 27.2 58.1 0.1 0.1 Aggregate amortisation At 1 January 2005 11.5 11.5 Charge for the year 2.6 2.6 Disposal of business 0.2 0.2 At 1 January 2006 13.9 13.9 Charge for the year 0.8 2.8 3.6 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2006 0.8 16.7 17.5 0.1 0.1 Net book amount At 31 December 2006 30.1 10.5 40.6 At 31 December 2005 2.0 20.4 22.4 0.1 0.1 At 1 January 2005 0.8 9.8 10.6 0.1 0.1 The internally generated computer software relates to the cost of developing the Consumer Credit divisions next generation of IT and customer relationship management systems.
The cost of acquired software assets also includes 7.2 million 2005: 6.9 million as restated in relation to external software expenditure on these new systems.
The carrying value of these systems at 31 December 2006 is 37.2 million 2005: 18.9 million and its remaining amortisation period is approximately six and a half years.
The net book amount of internally generated computer software includes 2.2 million 2005: nil in respect of capitalised borrowing costs.
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged to the income statement through administrative expenses.
56 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16.
The net book values of xtures and equipment and motor vehicles include amounts of 4.1 million 2005: 5.3 million and 1.6 million 2005: 1.5 million respectively in respect of assets held by the group under finance leases and hire purchase contracts.
Included within the depreciation charge shown above was 2.9 million 2005: 2.5 million in respect of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts.
57 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 16.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued Leasehold Fixtures land and and Motor buildings equipment vehicles Total Company m m m m Cost At 1 January 2005 0.2 0.7 0.4 1.3 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 1 January 2006 0.2 0.7 0.3 1.2 Additions 0.1 0.1 Transfers from group company 0.1 0.1 Disposals 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2006 0.2 0.7 0.2 1.1 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2005 0.2 0.5 0.1 0.8 Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 0.2 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 1 January 2006 0.2 0.6 0.1 0.9 Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 Transfers from group company 0.1 0.1 Disposals 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2006 0.2 0.6 0.1 0.9 Net book amount At 31 December 2006 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2005 0.1 0.2 0.3 At 1 January 2005 0.2 0.3 0.5 Depreciation has been charged to the companys income statement through administrative expenses.
The net book value of motor vehicles includes an amount of 0.1 million 2005: 0.2 million in respect of assets held by the company under hire purchase contracts.
Included within the depreciation charge shown above was 0.1 million 2005: 0.1 million in respect of assets held under hire purchase contracts.
INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Company 2006 2005 m m Cost At 1 January 188.5 186.9 Additions 175.7 4.9 Disposals 176.5 2.8 Adjustment 0.5 At 31 December 187.7 188.5 Provision for diminution in value At 1 January 10.8 10.8 Disposals 2.7 At 31 December 8.1 10.8 Net book amount at 31 December 179.6 177.7 On 5 December 2006 certain of the companys investments in subsidiary undertakings with a cost of 176.5 million were transferred to one of the groups intermediate holding companies in exchange for shares in this company.
1.9 million 2005: 1.7 million of the additions in the year relates to share-based payments in respect of employees of the subsidiary undertakings.
All principal subsidiaries are wholly owned by Cattles plc.
The principal operating subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 78.
58 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Loans and receivables, analysed by segment, are as follows: Group 2006 2005 m m Consumer Credit 2,242.2 1,859.5 Debt Recovery 91.0 44.4 Corporate Services 82.4 67.2 Central 1.9 2,415.6 1,973.0 Less: Allowance for loan loss provision 310.2 299.3 2,105.4 1,673.7 Comprising: Non-current assets 1,269.3 984.5 Current assets 836.1 689.2 2,105.4 1,673.7 Gross loans and receivables, analysed by product, are as follows: Hire purchase contracts 574.7 473.5 Other instalment credit agreements 1,667.5 1,387.9 Default debt 91.0 44.4 Factoring 82.4 67.2 2,415.6 1,973.0 Company loans and receivables, as shown in the balance sheet on page 39, of 1,953.9 million 2005: 1,558.4 million, comprise amounts due from subsidiary companies, all of which is repayable on demand.
significant terms and conditions The significant terms of the groups loans and receivables may be summarised as follows: The Consumer Credit division has approximately 409,000 2005: 358,000 direct repayment customers.
Average advances are typically 1,900 2005: 1,500 for small unsecured personal loans, 6,200 2005: 4,800 for HP loans for the purchase of cars and 8,700 2005: 9,000 for secured loans.
Interest on unsecured and secured loans is added monthly.
Interest on hire purchase loans is pre-computed at the outset with additional interest added monthly should an account become in arrears.
The group continues to disengage from those sectors of the home collected market regarded as being uneconomic.
Consequently the number of home collected customers has slightly reduced to 307,000 2005: 308,000.
Shopacheck continues to offer a home collected product to customers who require small value short-term advances typically 300.
Interest on these loans is xed at the outset.
Lewis, the groups debt recovery specialist continues to purchase default debt portfolios for which it has developed sophisticated pricing models and processes to assess the economic value of such portfolios.
The amount invested in the purchase of such portfolios in the year was 69.5 million 2005: 32.7 million.
Invoices factored by Cattles Invoice Finance, the groups invoice nancing business, are formally assigned to the company and are typically repaid within 60 days.
Details of the weighted average effective interest rate for the groups loans and receivables are in note 24.
59 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 18.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES continued Maturity prole of loans and receivables The contractual maturity of the groups loans and receivables is set out in the table below: 2006 2005 Net investment Net investment in finance lease in finance lease and hire Other and hire Other purchase loans and purchase loans and receivables receivables Total receivables receivables Total Group m m m m m m Within one year 194.4 641.7 836.1 160.3 528.9 689.2 One to two years 136.2 267.2 403.4 105.3 207.0 312.3 Two to three years 98.4 165.0 263.4 73.5 126.5 200.0 Three to four years 49.8 96.9 146.7 31.0 79.6 110.6 Four to five years 10.5 73.4 83.9 7.1 63.2 70.3 Over five years 20.5 351.4 371.9 12.5 278.8 291.3 509.8 1,595.6 2,105.4 389.7 1,284.0 1,673.7 The group provides hire purchase facilities for customers to purchase cars from Welcome Car Finance and third party dealers.
The groups gross investment in finance leases and hire purchase contracts is set out in the table below: Group 2006 2005 m m Gross investment: Within one year 290.3 255.6 One to five years 440.3 345.9 Over five years 30.5 20.0 761.1 621.5 Unearned future finance income 186.4 148.0 Allowance for loan loss provision 64.9 83.8 Present value of future lease payments 509.8 389.7 Under the terms of the finance lease agreements and the hire purchase contracts, no unguaranteed residual values are accruing to the group and no contingent rents are payable.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Trade receivables 4.7 2.7 0.1 0.1 Loan to employee benefit trust 3.1 4.3 Other receivables 33.1 23.1 0.4 0.4 Prepayments and accrued income 10.1 9.2 1.7 1.8 47.9 35.0 5.3 6.6 Comprising: Non-current assets 0.1 3.1 4.3 Current assets 47.9 34.9 2.2 2.3 47.9 35.0 5.3 6.6 60 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
DEFERRED TAX Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary timing differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 30% 2005: 30%.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary timing differences giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
All of the deferred tax liabilities are available for offset against deferred tax assets and hence the deferred tax asset at each balance sheet date is shown net.
The movements in the deferred tax account during the year are shown below: At At 31 December Recognised Recognised 31 December 2005 in income in equity 2006 Group m m m m Accelerated tax depreciation 0.3 1.9 2.2 Other timing differences 28.8 4.5 6.4 17.9 28.5 6.4 6.4 15.7 Company Other timing differences 15.7 5.7 10.0 15.7 5.7 10.0 Other timing differences principally relate to either timing differences arising from changes in accounting policies following the transition to IFRS, actuarial gains and losses on the retirement benefit obligation, fair value gains and losses relating to cash ow hedging instruments or share-based payments.
Of the group and the companys deferred tax balance at 31 December 2006, 14.7 million 2005: 25.2 million and 10.1 million 2005: 13.5 million respectively is expected to be realised in more than one year.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 12.9 16.5 2.4 Fixed interest bank deposits 21.2 79.6 34.1 96.1 2.4 All bank deposits have a maturity of one month.
61 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 22.
BORROWINGS Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Current Unsecured bank borrowings and overdrafts 16.2 216.6 16.2 216.3 Unsecured debenture loans and other borrowings 152.0 26.7 151.3 26.1 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 2.6 2.4 0.2 Unsecured intra-group borrowings, repayable on demand 38.1 29.8 170.8 245.7 205.6 272.4 Non-current Unsecured bank borrowings 1,043.0 500.3 1,043.0 499.6 Unsecured debenture loans and other borrowings 538.0 607.5 534.8 604.3 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 3.0 3.7 0.1 1,584.0 1,111.5 1,577.9 1,103.9 Total 1,754.8 1,357.2 1,783.5 1,376.3 At 31 December 2006 unsecured debenture loans and other borrowings comprised: a A Eurosterling Bond with a carrying amount of 125.3 million 2005: 124.9 million.
The Bond has a par value of 125 million but was issued at a 1.14% discount, realising net proceeds of 123.6 million.
The Bond has a xed rate of interest of 8.625% and is redeemable at par in December 2007.
The carrying amount reects the unamortised discount, unamortised transaction costs and accrued interest of 0.2 million, 0.3 million and 0.8 million respectively.
b A Sterling Bond with a carrying amount of 370.8 million 2005: 370.6 million.
The Bond has a par value of 350 million but was issued at a 0.227% discount, realising net proceeds of 347.6 million.
The Bond has a xed rate of interest of 6.875% and is redeemable at par in January 2014.
The carrying amount reects the unamortised discount, unamortised transaction costs and accrued interest of 0.6 million, 1.7 million and 23.1 million respectively.
c A US Private Placing with a carrying amount of 124.4 million 2005: 132.6 million.
The Placing raised $40 million 7.15% unsecured notes redeemable at par in December 2008, $70 million 7.53% unsecured notes redeemable at par in December 2011, 30 million 7.64% unsecured notes redeemable at par in December 2011 and 40 million 7.80% unsecured notes redeemable at par in December 2016.
The carrying amount reects hedging adjustments, unamortised transaction costs and accrued interest of 20.6 million, 0.8 million and 0.3 million respectively.
d A US Private Placing with a carrying amount of 64.1 million 2005: nil.
The Placing raised $20 million 6.17% unsecured notes redeemable at par in February 2011, $55 million 6.25% unsecured notes redeemable at par in February 2013, s6 million 4.62% unsecured notes redeemable at par in February 2013, 1 million 5.89% unsecured notes redeemable at par in February 2013 and 20 million 5.94% unsecured loan notes redeemable at par in February 2021.
The carrying amount reects hedging adjustments, unamortised transaction costs and accrued interest of 4.8 million, 0.3 million and 1.0 million respectively.
e A xed rate 6.39% loan with a carrying amount of 3.9 million 2005: 4.6 million.
The loan is repayable in quarterly instalments by September 2011. f 1.5 million 2005: 1.5 million 4% unsecured loan notes are redeemable at par during 2007.
62 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
BORROWINGS continued Maturity prole of borrowings The contractual maturity of borrowings held or issued by the group and company is set out in the table below: Unsecured Obligations Unsecured Obligations bank, under finance bank, under finance debenture loans lease and debenture loans lease and and other hire purchase 2006 and other hire purchase 2005 borrowings contracts Total borrowings contracts Total Group m m m m m m Within one year 168.2 2.6 170.8 243.3 2.4 245.7 One to two years 22.0 1.6 23.6 126.2 2.2 128.4 Two to three years 430.7 0.9 431.6 72.4 0.6 73.0 Three to four years 2.4 0.5 2.9 387.2 0.5 387.7 Four to five years 684.8 684.8 2.4 0.4 2.8 Over five years 441.1 441.1 519.6 519.6 1,749.2 5.6 1,754.8 1,351.1 6.1 1,357.2 Company Within one year 205.6 205.6 272.2 0.2 272.4 One to two years 21.2 0.1 21.3 125.5 125.5 Two to three years 429.9 429.9 71.6 71.6 Three to four years 1.5 1.5 386.3 386.3 Four to five years 684.1 684.1 1.6 1.6 Over five years 441.1 441.1 518.9 518.9 1,783.4 0.1 1,783.5 1,376.1 0.2 1,376.3 The group and companys gross obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts are as follows: Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Gross lease payments: Not later than one year 2.8 2.6 0.2 Later than one year but not more than five 3.2 3.9 0.1 6.0 6.5 0.1 0.2 Future finance charges 0.4 0.4 Present value of minimum lease payments 5.6 6.1 0.1 0.2 The above gures relate to motor vehicles acquired under hire purchase contracts and computer hardware acquired under finance lease agreements.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Current Trade payables 17.7 85.5 0.6 0.6 Other taxes and social security 5.9 4.7 0.2 0.2 Other payables 2.4 3.1 Accruals 19.8 18.3 3.7 2.4 45.8 111.6 4.5 3.2 Non-current Other taxes and social security 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Other payables 4.1 3.1 8.7 5.7 4.3 3.3 8.9 5.9 All non-current financial liabilities included above have a maturity of one to two years.
63 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 24.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Details of managements policies for controlling the risks associated with financial instruments, including policies on matters such as hedging of risk exposures and avoiding undue concentrations of credit risk are given in note 3 on pages 48 and 49.
Interest rate risk At 31 December 2006, the group held interest rate swaps covering unsecured oating rate bank borrowings of 707 million 2005: 412 million, effectively xing the associated cost of interest at rates between 4.01% and 6.43% 2005: 4.01% and 6.43%.
In addition, the group held a collar covering a further 10 million 2005: caps and collars of 70 million, which is allowed to oat at a oor rate of 4.25% and a cap rate of 4.75% 2005: rates between oors of 4.25% and 5.00% and caps of 4.75% and 6.25%.
Except for the groups collar and two of its interest rate swaps, all of the groups interest rate financial instruments are designated as cash ow hedges.
The gains and losses deferred in equity will be recorded in the income statement during the next five years being the lives of the instruments.
Foreign currency risk All foreign currency denominated borrowings are immediately swapped into Sterling at the commencement of the facility agreement and, hence, the group is not exposed to currency rate uctuations.
Of the groups cross-currency swaps, 75.5 million 2005: 75.5 million are designated as fair value hedges and, as a consequence, the change in the fair values of these swaps is recorded in the income statement within finance costs, together with the change in the fair values of US Dollar denominated tranches of a Private Placing which the swaps have hedged.
The remaining 47.2 million 2005: nil of cross-currency swaps are designated as cash ow hedges and were taken out to hedge against the interest and currency risk associated with US Dollar and Euro denominated tranches of a Private Placing.
The following table shows the fair value of derivative financial instruments, as well as the notional amount of the associated borrowing: 2006 2005 Notional Notional amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities Group and Company m m m m m m Interest rate swaps 707.0 7.7 0.3 412.0 0.3 6.7 Interest rate caps and collars 10.0 0.1 70.0 0.1 Cross-currency swaps 122.7 26.3 75.5 13.7 839.7 7.8 26.6 557.5 0.3 20.5 Comprising: Current 0.3 0.2 0.3 Non-current 7.5 26.4 0.3 20.2 7.8 26.6 0.3 20.5 The group holds no other derivatives and has identied no embedded derivatives which require separate accounting for in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition & measurement.
64 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Fair values of non-derivative financial instruments The following table summarises the carrying values and fair values of those financial assets and liabilities not recognised in the balance sheet of the group and company at fair value: 2006 2005 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value Group m m m m Loans and receivables 2,105.4 2,105.4 1,673.7 1,673.7 Bank borrowings 1,047.2 1,055.7 710.4 713.9 Debenture loans and other borrowings 690.0 698.8 634.2 661.3 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 5.6 5.6 6.1 6.1 Company Intra-group loans and receivables 1,953.9 1,953.9 1,558.4 1,558.4 Bank borrowings 1,047.2 1,055.7 709.6 713.9 Debenture loans and other borrowings 686.1 694.8 630.4 656.7 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Intra-group borrowings 38.1 38.1 29.8 29.8 The fair value of loans and receivables equates to their carrying value as the carrying value represents the discounted amount of estimated future cash ows expected to be received.
The discount rate used is the original EIR, which is consistent with the rates on new loans being written.
The fair values of bank borrowings, debenture loans and other borrowings are calculated by discounting expected future cash ows at appropriate market interest rates prevailing at each balance sheet date and at estimated future exchange rates.
The fair value of obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts equates to their carrying values as the interest rates being paid on these obligations are substantially the same as those prevailing in the current open market.
The fair values of intra-group loans and receivables and borrowings equates to their carrying values as the interest rates being earned and charged on these items are based upon prevailing market rates.
The carrying values of trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts and trade and other payables approximate to fair value due to their relatively short maturity and are not shown in the above table.
Effective interest rates The following prole of the groups financial assets and liabilities is stated after taking into account the effect of the interest rate swaps discussed above.
Weighted average effective interest rates at year end 2006 2005 % % Loans and receivables 42.0 45.5 Cash equivalents 5.2 4.6 Bank borrowings 5.4 5.5 Debenture loans and other borrowings 7.3 7.4 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 6.4 6.4 These assets and liabilities bear interest at xed rates Interest on oating rate bank borrowings is based on a xed margin over oating rate LIBOR, as pre-determined by each facility agreement.
The weighted average effective interest rates on the groups cash and bank overdrafts are based on the prevailing UK base rate less 0.1% and plus 1.0% 2005: less 0.5% and plus 1.0% respectively.
The weighted average effective interest rates in relation to the companys financial assets and liabilities are the same of those of the group, except for loans and receivables which was 6.8% at 31 December 2006 2005: 7.0%.
65 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 24.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Bank facilities The committed bank facilities available to the group at 31 December 2006 were: Total Undrawn facility facility Type Maturity period Established m m Overdraft Renewable annually 13.6 1.6 Syndicate July 2009 2004 500.0 70.0 Syndicate July 2011 2006 800.0 259.0 Bilateral July 2011 2004 75.0 5.0 Loan April 2012 2005 8.2 1,396.8 335.6 Utilisation from each syndicated facility is by money market renewable term loans or acceptances which are rolled over in one year or less.
The company uses a number of banks and syndicates to provide finance to avoid an unnecessary concentration of borrowing.
Principal covenants The group must comply with principal lending covenants in respect of the ratio of total borrowings to tangible net worth and the ratio of profit before interest and tax to net interest payable.
At 31 December 2006 neither of these covenants had been breached.
PROVISIONS Contingent consideration Dilapidations Total Group m m m At 1 January 2006 2.0 1.6 3.6 Additional provisions made during the year 0.3 0.3 Amounts utilised during the year 0.9 0.1 1.0 Amounts released during the year 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2006 0.6 1.8 2.4 2006 2005 m m Current 0.6 2.4 Non-current 1.8 1.2 2.4 3.6 The contingent consideration provision, which is held by the company, relates to the disposal of Cattles Commercial Finance Limited in 2005.
The dilapidations provision relates to the future cost of rectifying dilapidations across the groups portfolio of properties, which are under tenant-repairing leases.
66 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26.
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL Group and Company Number m Authorised ordinary shares of 10p each At 1 January 2006 and 31 December 2006 500,000,000 50.0 Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each At 1 January 2006 328,868,981 32.9 Exercise of options 863,954 0.1 At 31 December 2006 329,732,935 33.0 The rights attached to the ordinary shares are as follows: Voting On a show of hands every ordinary shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting of the company shall have one vote and on a poll every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share held.
Dividends Ordinary shareholders shall be entitled to receive such dividend as the company by ordinary resolution may from time to time declare as a final dividend such dividend not to exceed the amount recommended by the Board or as the Board may from time to time declare as an interim dividend.
Return of capital on a winding-up Ordinary shareholders are entitled to participate in any surplus assets on the winding-up of the company in proportion to their shareholdings.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS a Group The group recognised a total charge of 2.8 million 2005: 2.6 million related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions during the year ended 31 December 2006.
67 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 27.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Equity-settled share option schemes continued The outstanding share options may be analysed by range of exercise prices as follows: 2006 2005 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average Range of exercise exercise price Number of remaining life exercise price Number of remaining life prices pence pence share options years pence share options years 171.42 199.00 171.42 36,400 0.68 171.44 46,400 1.68 200.00 249.00 240.81 813,706 4.21 223.53 1,666,139 3.57 250.00 299.00 285.49 393,627 2.47 285.39 475,239 3.53 300.00 363.95 357.78 130,000 2.61 355.31 270,000 3.73 Total 262.85 1,373,733 3.47 248.98 2,457,778 3.55 Details of the share option schemes and of the directors interests in share options and the issued shares of the company are set out in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on page 96 and the Report of the Directors on page 82, respectively.
A reconciliation of option movements during the year is shown below: 2006 2005 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise price Number of exercise price share options pence share options pence Outstanding at beginning of year 2,457,778 248.98 2,073,026 251.00 Granted during year 878,109 243.20 Exercised during year 863,954 223.37 189,663 216.93 Expired during year 220,091 262.96 303,694 266.05 Outstanding at 31 December 1,373,733 262.85 2,457,778 248.98 Exercisable at 31 December 378,400 308.44 374,400 316.05 No options were granted during the year.
The weighted average share price during the period for options exercised over the year was 358p 2005: 320p.
Shares issued under senior executive performance related plans and staff share incentive plan The group has a number of share award plans for senior executives, namely the Restricted Share Scheme and Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Details of each plan are set out in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 91 to 93.
During the year 891,367 shares 2005: 546,408 shares with an estimated fair value of 2.8 million 2005: 1.3 million were awarded to directors and senior executives under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The group also operates a Share Incentive Plan which is open to all eligible UK employees, including executive directors, and is an HMRC approved all-employee scheme.
During the year 576,783 shares 2005: 640,226 shares with an estimated fair value of 1.5 million 2005: 1.4 million were awarded to staff, including senior executives under the Share Incentive Plan.
68 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued b Company The company recognised a total charge of 0.9 million 2005: 0.9 million related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions during the year ended 31 December 2006.
Equity-settled share option schemes Outstanding options under the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 1994, the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 1996 and the Cattles Employee Sharesave Scheme at 31 December 2006 are as follows: Exercise 2006 2005 price Exercise Number of Number of Period granted pence period share options share options Executive Share Option Schemes 1998 241.75 2001 2008 2,400 7,600 1999 326.40 363.95 2002 2009 4,000 16,000 2001 221.60 281.90 2004 2011 4,000 6,400 27,600 Employee Sharesave Scheme 2001 200.90 2006 2007 75,398 2003 285.60 2008 2009 27,758 27,758 2005 243.20 2010 2011 25,471 25,471 59,629 156,227 The outstanding share options may be analysed by range of exercise prices as follows: 2006 2005 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Range of average average average average exercise prices exercise price Number of remaining life exercise price Number of remaining life pence pence share options years pence share options years 200.90 249.00 243.08 27,871 4.19 213.98 112,469 2.57 250.00 299.00 285.60 27,758 2.42 285.60 27,758 3.42 300.00 363.95 363.95 4,000 2.25 354.56 16,000 3.38 Total 270.98 59,629 3.23 241.10 156,227 2.80 A reconciliation of option movements during the year is shown below: 2006 2005 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise price Number of exercise price share options pence share options pence Outstanding at beginning of year 156,227 241.10 163,672 244.37 Granted during year 25,471 243.20 Exercised during year 95,853 222.83 12,277 200.90 Expired during year 745 200.90 20,639 293.55 Outstanding at 31 December 59,629 270.98 156,227 241.10 Exercisable at 31 December 6,400 318.13 27,600 304.23 No options were granted during the year.
69 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 27.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Fair value of share-based payments The fair values of all share-based payments arising from share awards granted post 7 November 2002 have been estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: Employee Restricted Long-Term Arrangement Sharesave Scheme Share Scheme Incentive Plan Share Incentive Plan Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Nature of arrangement options options shares shares shares shares shares shares shares Grant date 1 10 2003 25 10 2005 1 1 2004 1 4 2004 23 5 2005 23 11 2006 31 8 2004 10 5 2005 31 5 2006 Share price at grant date 327p 271p 334.25p 339p 298p 406p 320p 304.75p 346p Exercise price 285.6p 243.2p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p Shares under option at grant date 755,683 878,109 369,482 77,195 546,408 891,367 546,417 640,226 576,783 Vesting period years 5.2 5.1 3.3 3.0 3.0 3.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 Expected volatility 31% 31% n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Expected life years 5.2 5.1 3.3 3.0 3.0 3.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 Risk free rate 4.3% 4.3% n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Expected dividends expressed as dividend yield 3.3% 5.4% 3.3% 3.6% 4.7% 4.0% n a n a n a Expected forfeiture rate pa 9% 17% 5% 5% 5% 5% 14% 14% 14% Fair value per option 95.2p 60.9p 300.4p 304.4p 258.8p 359.9p 320.0p 304.75p 346.3p The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over an appropriate period, consistent with the assumed option life.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise from the date of grant.
The vesting period represents the contractual period to the earliest vesting date.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
70 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS AND STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Share Share Other Retained Total capital premium reserves earnings equity m m m m m Group note 26 note 29 At 1 January 2005 32.9 141.6 5.4 166.7 335.8 Actuarial losses on dened benefit pension scheme, net of tax 4.8 4.8 Fair value losses in cash ow hedges, net of tax 6.7 6.7 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 3.7 3.7 Vesting of share awards outside the scope of IFRS 2 1.0 1.0 Net losses recognised directly in equity 3.0 5.8 8.8 profit for the year 80.5 80.5 Total recognised income and expense for year 3.0 74.7 71.7 Share-based payments: Value of services provided 2.5 2.5 Settlement of share awards 1.6 1.6 Purchase of own shares 1.4 1.4 Vesting of shares 1.0 1.0 Dividends 47.5 47.5 Issue of equity exercise of options 0.4 0.4 At 1 January 2006 32.9 142.0 8.8 194.8 360.9 Actuarial gains on dened benefit pension scheme, net of tax 5.2 5.2 Fair value gains in cash ow hedges, net of tax 7.4 7.4 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 1.3 1.3 Tax on share-based payments 0.3 0.3 Net gains recognised directly in equity 8.7 5.5 14.2 profit for the year 91.8 91.8 Total recognised income and expense for year 8.7 97.3 106.0 Share-based payments: Value of services provided 2.8 2.8 Settlement of share awards 2.6 2.6 Vesting of shares 1.2 1.2 Dividends 53.4 53.4 Issue of equity exercise of options 0.1 1.9 2.0 At 31 December 2006 33.0 143.9 1.1 238.9 416.9 71 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 28.
SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS AND STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY continued Share Share Other Retained Total capital premium reserves earnings equity m m m m m Company note 26 note 29 At 1 January 2005 32.9 141.6 37.5 82.4 294.4 Actuarial losses on dened benefit pension scheme, net of tax 4.8 4.8 Fair value losses in cash ow hedges, net of tax 6.7 6.7 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 3.7 3.7 Vesting of share awards outside the scope of IFRS 2 1.0 1.0 Net losses recognised directly in equity 3.0 5.8 8.8 profit for the year 49.1 49.1 Total recognised income and expense for year 3.0 43.3 40.3 Share-based payments: Value of services provided by company and subsidiary employees 2.5 2.5 Settlement of share awards 1.6 1.6 Dividends 47.5 47.5 Issue of equity exercise of options 0.4 0.4 At 1 January 2006 32.9 142.0 34.5 79.1 288.5 Actuarial gains on dened benefit pension scheme, net of tax 5.2 5.2 Fair value gains in cash ow hedges, net of tax 7.4 7.4 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 1.3 1.3 Tax on share-based payments 0.4 0.4 Net gains recognised directly in equity 8.7 5.6 14.3 profit for the year 27.6 27.6 Total recognised income and expense for year 8.7 33.2 41.9 Share-based payments: Value of services provided by company and subsidiary employees 2.8 2.8 Settlement of share awards 2.6 2.6 Dividends 53.4 53.4 Transfer from other reserves to retained earnings 34.8 34.8 Issue of equity exercise of options 0.1 1.9 2.0 At 31 December 2006 33.0 143.9 8.4 93.9 279.2 72 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29.
OTHER RESERVES Hedging Own shares Total reserve held reserve other reserves Group m m m At 1 January 2005 1.5 3.9 5.4 Fair value losses in cash ow hedges, net of tax 6.7 6.7 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 3.7 3.7 Purchase of own shares 1.4 1.4 Vesting of shares in Restricted Share Scheme 1.0 1.0 At 1 January 2006 4.5 4.3 8.8 Fair value gains in cash ow hedges, net of tax 7.4 7.4 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 1.3 1.3 Vesting of shares in Restricted Share Scheme 1.2 1.2 At 31 December 2006 4.2 3.1 1.1 Hedging reserve From 1 January 2005, the group achieved hedge accounting such that the hedging reserve includes the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash ow hedging instruments relating to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
The reserve also includes the unamortised portion of a hedging reserve which arose, in the absence of hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition & measurement, on transition to IFRS of 0.7 million at 31 December 2006 2005: 0.5 million.
This element of the hedging reserve is being amortised through the income statement in a way so as to reect how the item that was being hedge accounted under UK GAAP has affected profit or loss in the period.
Own shares held reserve The own shares held reserve comprises the cost of the shares in Cattles plc held by the employee benefit trust to meet obligations under the Restricted Share Scheme and the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The shares were acquired by the trust in the open market using funds provided by the company.
Shares held in trust Nominal value Number m At 1 January 2006 1,432,953 0.1 Awarded by the trust 430,930 At 31 December 2006 1,002,023 0.1 The market value of the own shares held at 31 December 2006 was 4.4 million 2005: 4.7 million.
As at 31 December 2006, the shareholders authority for the company to purchase its own shares, as approved in Resolution 9 at the Annual General Meeting of 11 May 2006, remained valid.
73 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 29.
OTHER RESERVES continued Capital Total Hedging reduction Special Merger other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves Company m m m m m At 1 January 2005 1.5 8.8 26.0 4.2 37.5 Fair value losses in cash ow hedges, net of tax 6.7 6.7 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 3.7 3.7 At 1 January 2006 4.5 8.8 26.0 4.2 34.5 Fair value gains in cash ow hedges, net of tax 7.4 7.4 Transfers to net profit, including amortisation of transitional hedging reserve 1.3 1.3 Transfer to retained earnings 8.8 26.0 34.8 At 31 December 2006 4.2 4.2 8.4 Capital reduction and special reserves The capital reduction and special reserves arose in 1991 and 1994 respectively following Court approval to transfer these amounts from the share premium account.
These reserves have been transferred to retained earnings as Court approval has been obtained during the year to enable these amounts to be considered distributable.
Merger reserve The merger reserve has arisen over numerous years in relation to past acquisitions.
This reserve is considered non-distributable.
RECONCILIATION OF PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION TO CASH OUTFLOW FROM OPERATIONS Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m profit before taxation 132.2 115.1 26.5 76.6 Adjustments for: 1 Dividend income 31.3 69.2 profit on disposal of subsidiary undertakings 0.5 0.5 0.5 10.3 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 6.8 6.7 0.1 0.2 profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.6 0.4 Amortisation of intangible assets 3.6 2.6 Share-based payments 1.5 1.0 1.7 0.7 Fair value movements on derivatives 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 Increase in loans and receivables 431.6 255.7 Increase in inventories 3.7 1.0 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 13.1 10.6 0.1 0.7 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 65.1 46.9 4.3 1.9 Decrease in borrowings 0.9 1.2 0.9 1.2 Increase decrease in provisions 0.2 3.9 Decrease in retirement benefit obligation 3.4 1.1 3.4 1.1 Cash outow from operations 376.2 103.7 8.4 6.1 1 2005 comparative has been restated as the companys dividend income of 69.2 million for the year ended 31 December 2005 should have been presented as a reconciling item between profit before taxation and operating cash ow rather than reected behind the nancing cash ow for the issue of new intra-group borrowings.
The amount of interest paid and received during the year was as follows: Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Interest paid 101.8 89.3 99.6 87.5 Interest received 4.0 5.2 112.2 105.0 74 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31.
PENSION OBLIGATIONS The group operates both dened benefit and dened contribution pension plans.
Dened contribution post-employment benefit plans The group operates a number of dened contribution personal pension plans for new employees and for existing employees who are not members of the dened benefit scheme.
The expense recognised for the dened contribution plans is 1.2 million 2005: 0.9 million.
Dened benefit post-employment benefit plan The group operates a funded dened benefit scheme for certain employees, providing benets based on final salary.
The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee-administered fund.
Contributions to the scheme are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualied actuary using the projected unit method.
The scheme was closed to new applicants from 1998.
The principal assumptions used in the valuation of the retirement benefit obligation were as follows: 2006 2005 % % Ination rate 3.1 2.9 Discount rate 5.1 4.7 Expected return on assets 7.0 7.0 Rate of increase in pay i 4.6 4.4 Rate of increase of pensions in payment ii 3.1 2.9 Rate of increase for deferred pensioners ii 3.1 2.9 Proportion of members that will take maximum tax free commutation on retirement 75.0 n a i In addition, allowance is made for scale of age related promotional increases.
ii In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element.
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity, which is based on the standard tables known as PA92, projected to the year 2004, with an age rating of minus two years applied for non-pensioners and minus one year for pensioners.
The expected return on assets has been derived at the weighted average of the expected returns from each of the main asset classes i. e. equities and bonds.
The expected return for each class of asset, as shown below, reects a combination of historical performance analysis, the forward looking views of the financial markets as suggested by the yields available, and the views of investment organisations.
2006 2005 % % Equities 8.00 8.10 Fixed interest bonds 4.80 4.30 Cash 5.00 4.50 Total 7.00 7.00 Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the dened benefit plan are as follows: 2006 2005 m m Current service cost i 1.5 1.4 Interest cost 3.8 3.6 Expected return on plan assets 3.3 2.8 Past service cost ii 2.0 Total dened benefit pension expense note 12 2.2 i Current service cost is net of employee contributions.
ii The past service cost reects the change in commutation benets available to members following an amendment to the scheme rules, which arose from the change in pension legislation effective from 6 April 2006 A-Day.
The pension expense charge for the year is included in administrative expenses in the income statement.
The actual return on plan assets was 3.1 million 2005: 4.7 million.
75 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 31.
PENSION OBLIGATIONS continued The cumulative actuarial gains and losses before deferred tax recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense in respect of the dened benefit plan are as follows: 2006 2005 m m Net actuarial gain loss recognised in the year 7.5 6.8 Cumulative net actuarial losses recognised at start of year 10.4 3.6 Cumulative net actuarial losses recognised at end of year 2.9 10.4 Changes in the present value of the dened benefit obligation are as follows: 2006 2005 m m Present value of dened benefit obligation at start of year 81.4 67.3 Current service cost 1.5 1.4 Interest cost 3.8 3.6 Contributions by plan participants 0.3 0.3 Past service cost 2.0 Actuarial gain loss 4.4 11.4 benefit payments 2.5 2.6 Present value of dened benefit obligation at end of year 78.1 81.4 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2006 2005 m m Fair value of plan assets at start of year 46.7 38.4 Expected return on plan assets 3.3 2.8 Actuarial gain 3.1 4.6 Contributions by plan participants 0.3 0.3 Contributions by the employer 3.4 3.2 benefit payments 2.5 2.6 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 54.3 46.7 The fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date is analysed as follows: 2006 2005 m m Equities 38.1 32.9 Fixed interest bonds 15.5 13.5 Cash 0.7 0.3 54.3 46.7 The plan assets do not include any of the groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the group.
76 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31.
PENSION OBLIGATIONS continued The history of the plan is as follows: 2006 2005 2004 m m m Dened benefit obligation 78.1 81.4 67.3 Fair value of plan assets 54.3 46.7 38.4 Retirement benefit obligation as included in the balance sheet 23.8 34.7 28.9 Experience gain loss on dened benefit obligation 4.4 11.4 5.1 Experience gain on plan assets 3.1 4.6 1.5 Net actuarial gain loss recognised in the year 7.5 6.8 3.6 In accordance with the transitional provisions of the amendment to IAS 19 Employee benets, the above disclosures are determined prospectively from the 2004 reporting period.
Members contribute at the rate of either 3% or 5% of pensionable salaries, depending on their membership status.
The estimated amount of employee contributions for 2007 is 0.3 million.
The participating employer companies make normal contributions of 3.4 times members contributions such that the estimated amount of normal employer contributions for 2007 is 1.0 million.
In addition, the company has entered into an agreement with the pension scheme whereby it will make additional shortfall contributions of 2.2 million per annum.
Therefore, the estimated total amount of employer contributions for 2007 is 3.2 million.
OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS At the balance sheet date the group and company had total future lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 Land and Motor Land and Motor Land and Motor Land and Motor buildings vehicles buildings vehicles buildings vehicles buildings vehicles m m m m m m m m Future lease payments: Within one year 6.1 3.2 5.9 4.0 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 In two to five years 12.4 2.7 12.5 3.5 0.6 0.2 0.6 0.2 After five years 4.8 3.7 0.1 23.3 5.9 22.1 7.5 0.7 0.3 0.9 0.3 The following amounts were recognised in the income statement during the year: Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Lease payments 13.7 13.1 0.3 0.3 33.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The company remains as guarantor of a proportion of the leases of properties held and utilised by Homestyle Group plc formerly Rosebys PLC entered into when that company was a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking.
The maximum liability under these guarantees amounts to 0.7 million 2005: 0.7 million.
CAPITAL AND OTHER FINANCIAL EXPENDITURE COMMITMENTS The group and the company had no expenditure authorised and contracted but not provided for in relation to property, plant and equipment and software at 31 December 2006 2005: Group 9.1 million: Company nil.
77 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 35.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The groups payroll is administered by a subsidiary undertaking with the relevant payroll charges being recharged to the parent company and fellow group companies.
The subsidiary undertaking does not make any charge for providing these services.
The company provides borrowing facilities for its subsidiary undertakings, for which a nancing charge is levied each month.
This charge is based upon the companys average cost of borrowing.
The company also levies a management fee to certain of its subsidiary undertakings in relation to providing them with certain services, such as property management, procurement and internal audit.
This management fee is calculated on a cost incurred basis.
The company is provided with IT services 2005: IT and compliance services by one of its subsidiary undertakings for which a management charge is incurred.
The charge is calculated on a cost incurred basis.
The following related party transactions were carried out by the company with its subsidiary undertakings during the year: 2006 2005 m m Lending of funds 336.8 203.8 Intra-group finance income 113.5 102.1 Management fee central services 1.3 1.1 Management charge IT and compliance services 0.1 2.6 Receivables due from and payables to subsidiary undertakings are disclosed in note 18 and note 22 respectively.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 12.
PRINCIPAL OPERATING SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Subsidiary Undertaking Principal Activity Consumer Credit Welcome Financial Services Limited, trading as: Welcome Finance Monthly instalment personal loans and hire purchase credit Welcome Car Finance Direct distribution car retailer Welcome Mortgages Secured credit brokerage Shopacheck Financial Services Weekly home collected credit Debt Recovery The Lewis Group Limited Debt collection and investigation services C L Finance Limited Debt purchase Corporate Services Cattles Invoice Finance Limited Invoice finance Cattles Invoice Finance Oxford Limited Invoice finance All the above companies are wholly owned.
They operate in the United Kingdom and are registered in England with the exception of The Lewis Group Limited, which is registered in Scotland.
Companies which are dormant or whose operations are insignicant have been excluded.
78 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 REPORTS OF THE BOARD CONTENTS 80 Directors and Secretary 82 Report of the Directors 84 Report of the Board on Corporate Governance 88 Report of the Audit Committee 90 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration 79 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006
