NORMAN N BROADHURST, FCA FCT Chairman Age 65.
Chairman of Chloride Group plc and Freightliner Limited and also a non-executive director of Old Mutual plc and United Utilities plc.
Previously finance director of Railtrack Group plc.
SEN P MAHON, FCA Chief Executive Age 60.
Joined the company and appointed to the Board 2000.
Chairman of Business in the Communitys National Cares movement.
Previously a member of the UK board and chairman and senior partner of the northern region of .
JAMES J CORR, CA Finance Director Age 53.
Joined the company and appointed to the Board 2001.
Prior to joining the company was finance director of Polypipe plc.
Previously held senior finance positions in a variety of listed and private companies.
MARK W G COLLINS, FCA Treasury & Risk Director Age 53.
Joined the company in 1996 and appointed to the Board 1998.
CBI council member for Yorkshire and Humber.
Prior to joining the company was finance director of Brooke Industrial Holdings plc and group financial controller at SIG plc.
80 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 REPORTS OF THE BOARD Member of the Remuneration and Nomination 5.
Committees IAN S CUMMINE MARGARET A YOUNG, MBA Member of the Nomination Committee Chief Operating Officer Age 52.
Independent non-executive and member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Age 53.
Joined the company in 1994 when Non-executive director of Uniq plc and Royal Committees Welcome Financial Services Limited was Numico NV.
Previously a managing director Independent non-executive and member of acquired.
Prior of Credit Suisse First Boston and a director of the Audit and Nomination Committees to the setting up of Welcome, of which he was NatWest Markets Corporate Finance Limited.
a co-founder, in 1989 he was deputy managing director of Avco Financial Services Limited and 10. held other senior positions in the credit industry.
ROLAND C W TODD, MA OXON Solicitor.
Joined the company and DAVID A HAXBY, LLB, FCA appointed Company Secretary and Legal Age 65.
Prior to joining the company Senior independent non-executive director.
was a partner in the Leeds office of the law Non-executive director of SIG plc.
until his retirement in 1995 he was the managing partner of the London office of Arthur Andersen.
Non-executive director of Leeds Building Society and Speedy Hire plc and non-executive chairman of The Original Factory Shop Group Limited.
Previously held senior executive roles in a variety of companies in the retail sector.
Non-executive director of Domestic & General Group plc and Alphameric plc and non-executive chairman of Constantine Holdings Limited and non-executive director of Haygarth Group Limited.
Previously marketing director of Marks & Spencer plc.
81 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006
