City of London report 13 9 06 09:22 Page 47 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2006 47 Glossary of Terms AITC book values.
The market values of these, and in particular The Association of Investment Trust Companies.
the debentures, are higher than the par values due to the high coupon or interest rates they pay relative to the current Benchmark low interest rates in the market.
Using a higher value for From 1 July 2005 the Total Return of the FTSE All-Share these liabilities reduces the NAV per share.
Index adjusted for a maximum 4% cap for any single stock FTSE All-Share Index 4% capped.
Previously the FTSE AllPerformance Attribution Analysis Share Index Total Return.
A performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
Gearing This is broken down to show the effect of stock selection, The gearing percentage reflects the amount of borrowings ie gearing, expenses and the share issues made during the year.
bank loans and debentures the Company has used to invest In a falling market, the gearing effect will have a negative in the market.
This figure indicates the extra amount by which contribution to performance, whereas in a rising market it will shareholders funds would move if the Companys investments have a positive contribution.
Premium Discount There are several methods of calculating gearing and the The amount by which the market price per share of an following has been selected: investment trust is either higher premium or lower discount than the NAV per share, expressed as a percentage of the The difference between quoted investments and equity NAV.
shareholders funds divided by equity shareholders funds and x 100.
Total Expense Ratio This is the total expenses incurred by the Company, including Investment Trusts those charged to capital, expressed as a percentage of the Investment trusts are public limited companies, quoted on the average shareholders funds over the year.
We have shown London Stock Exchange, which provide shareholders with a separately the percentage of management other expenses and professionally managed portfolio of investments.
Investment the performance fee when applicable.
trusts are exempt from tax on the capital gains arising on their investments.
Income, net of expenses and tax, is substantially Total Returns distributed to shareholders.
This is the return on the share price or net asset value taking into account both the rise and fall of share prices and the Net Asset Value NAV Per Ordinary Share dividends paid to shareholders.
Any dividends received by a The value of the Companys assets, ie, investments and cash shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either held, less any liabilities ie bank loans and debentures for additional shares for share price total return or the Trusts which the Company is responsible, divided by the number of assets for net asset value total return.
This is the same shares in issue.
The aggregate NAV is also referred to as calculation shown as the value of 1,000 with net income shareholders funds on the Balance Sheet.
The NAV is reinvested displayed on page 4. published daily.
Website NAV per Ordinary Share with debt at market value Further information on the Company can be found on This is where the NAV is calculated by attributing market also www.
com called fair values to the preference preferred ordinary stocks and the debenture stocks rather than their par or
