City of London report 13 9 06 09:22 Page 30 30 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2006 Notes to the Accounts 1 Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis of accounting, modified to include the revaluation of fixed asset investments, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards and with the Revised Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies dated December 2005 the Revised SORP.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
b Changes in presentation The Company has adopted the provisions of the Revised SORP which has resulted in some changes to the presentation of the Companys accounts.
The Statement of Total Return is now called the Income Statement.
Dividends payable to equity shareholders are no longer reflected in the Income Statement, although they continue to be shown in the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds which is now presented as a primary statement see page 27. c Changes in accounting policy The Company has changed its accounting policy for the valuation of listed investments, the classification of preference and preferred ordinary stocks and the recognition of dividends payable to equity shareholders in accordance with the provisions of FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date, respectively.
These changes in policy and the associated impact on the results of the Company are referred to below.
d Valuation of investments Investments Prior to 1 July 2005, listed investments were valued at middle market prices.
Following the introduction of FRS 26 listed investments are now valued at fair value deemed to be bid market prices or the last traded price depending on the convention of the Exchange on which the investment is quoted.
The effect of this change is to decrease the value of listed investments at 30 June 2006 and decrease the net return on ordinary activities after taxation and net assets for the year ended 30 June 2006 by 10,000.
Comparatives have not been restated but the effect of restatement would have been to reduce the value of investments at 30 June 2005 by 32,000.
Unquoted investments are valued by the directors using primary valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, recent transactions and net assets.
Where fair value cannot reliably be measured the investment will be carried at the previous reporting date value unless there is evidence that the investment has since been impaired, in which case the value will be reduced.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Income Statement as Gains or losses on investments held at fair value though profit or loss.
Transaction costs incurred on the purchase and disposal of investments are recognised as a capital item in the Income Statement.
All purchases and sales are accounted for on a trade date basis.
e Foreign currency The results and financial position of the Company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency and presentational currency of the Company.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Transactions recorded in overseas currencies during the year are translated into sterling at the appropriate daily exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities denominated in overseas currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the date.
Any gains or losses on the translation of foreign currency balances, whether realised or unrealised, are taken to the capital or to the revenue return of the Income Statement, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
City of London report 13 9 06 09:22 Page 31 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2006 31 Notes to the Accounts continued 1 Accounting policies continued f Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are taken to the revenue return on an ex-dividend basis except where, in the opinion of directors, the dividend is capital in nature in which case it is taken to the capital return.
Income from fixed interest debt securities and preference shares is recognised using the effective interest rate method in accordance with the SORP.
Bank interest is accounted for on an accruals basis.
g Management and administration expenses and finance charges All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In accordance with the Boards expectation, over the long term, that investment returns will be attributable 70% to capital gains and 30% to income, the Company charges to capital 70% of the finance costs excluding dividends payable on the preference and preferred ordinary stocks and management fee.
Performances fees earned are allocated between capital and revenue based on the outperformance attributable to capital and revenue respectively.
h Taxation The tax effect of different items of expenditure is allocated between the capital return and revenue return using the Companys effective rate of tax for the year.
Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date other than those differences regarded as permanent.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of timing differences can be deducted.
Any liability to deferred tax is provided at the average rate of tax expected to apply.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted to reflect the time value of money.
i Bank borrowings Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including interest payable, premiums on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
j Preference stocks Under FRS 25 preference and preferred ordinary stock are now classified as debt previously included within Capital and Reserves as non-equity interests.
As a result of this reclassification, the dividends associated with the preference and preferred ordinary stock are charged fully to the Companys revenue return within finance costs.
k Dividends payable to equity shareholders Under FRS 21 dividends should not be accrued in the accounts unless they have been approved by shareholders before the balance sheet date.
Interim dividends payable to equity shareholders are recognised in the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds once they have been paid to shareholders.
There is no impact from this change on the recognised gains and losses in either 2004 or 2005.
However, the net assets at 30 June 2005 and 30 June 2004 have been impacted as disclosed in note 27.
The effect of this change is to increase ordinary shareholders funds at 30 June 2005 by 4,710,000 or 2.26p per share 30 June 2004: 4,427,000 or 2.11p per share.
