City of London report 13 9 06 09:22 Page 48 48 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2006 General Shareholder Information Release of Results Share Price Listings Half year results are announced in early February.
Full year The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is results are announced in early September.
published daily in The Financial Times and other leading newspapers.
The Financial Times also shows figures for the Annual General Meeting estimated net asset value and the discount.
The AGM is held in London in October.
The market prices of the Companys preference, preferred BACS ordinary and debenture stocks can be found in the London Dividends and interest can be paid to shareholders and Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
stockholders by means of BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services : mandate forms for this purpose are available from Performance Details Share Price Information the Registrar.
Alternatively, shareholders can write to the Details of the Companys share price and net asset value can Registrar the address is given on page 52 to give their be found on the website.
The address is instructions: these must include the bank account number, the www.
com The Companys net asset bank account title and the sort code of the bank to which value is published daily.
Shareholder Details Disability Act Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form can Copies of this Report and Accounts and other documents check their shareholding with the Registrar, Computershare issued by the Company are available from the Company Investor Services PLC, via www.
If needed, copies can be made available in a variety note that to gain access to your details on the Computershare of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger type as site you will need the holder reference number on the top left appropriate.
hand corner of your share certificate.
You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor ISIN SEDOL number Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow speech The ISIN code SEDOL Stock Exchange Daily Official List and hearing impaired people who have their own textphone number of the Companys shares is GB0001990497.
The to contact them directly, without the need for an intermediate mnemonic code is CTY.
Specially trained Nominee Share Code operators are available during normal business hours to Where notification has been provided in advance, the answer queries via this service.
Company will arrange for copies of shareholder Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator communications to be provided to the operators of nominee provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People dial accounts.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
and speak at them when invited to do so by the Chairman.
For investors through the Henderson Investment Products Investors in the itshenderson Plans formerly the Henderson Share Plan, PEP or ISA a textphone telephone service is Investment Trust Share Plan and the Henderson PEP or ISA available on 0870 240 1847.
This service is available during receive all shareholder communications.
A voting instruction normal business hours.
form as appropriate, is provided to facilitate voting at general meetings of the Company.
