Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 37 THE NOTES 1.
Accounting policies a Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements are prepared, for the first time, in accordance with all relevant International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of EU Regulation.
The date of transition to IFRS and the date of the opening IFRS balance sheet was 1st August, 2004.
As allowed by IFRS 1, the group has not restated its comparative consolidated income statement and balance sheet to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The company financial statements are prepared in accordance with Section 226 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985 and with all relevant UK accounting standards.
Any differences in these standards from their IFRS counterparts are stated in the remainder of this note.
b Accounting convention The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets and all derivative contracts.
The company financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of unlisted equity shares held for investment purposes which are included in the balance sheet at directors valuation.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the groups accounting policies.
These notes set out areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity or areas where assumptions are significant to the financial statements.
These areas are the fair value of financial assets and liabilities note 27, impairment losses on loans and advances note 10 and goodwill note 30. c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the individual financial statements of Close Brothers Group plc, the company, and entities it controls its subsidiaries.
Control exists where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity.
The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted for subsidiaries.
Under this method the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition with the interest of minority shareholders stated at the minoritys proportion of these amounts.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over these net assets is booked as goodwill.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated income statement up to the date of disposal.
The consolidated financial statements consolidate the individual financial statements of its associates using the equity method.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
As allowed by IFRS 1, the group has not restated business combinations that took place before 1st August, 2004. d Net interest income Interest on loans and advances made by the group, and fee income and expense and other direct costs relating to loan origination, restructuring or commitments are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
This method applies a rate that discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts to the net carrying amount of the financial instrument.
When calculating the effective interest rate, the cash flows take into account all contractual terms of the financial instrument including transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts but not future credit losses.
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised at the original effective interest rate applied to the carrying amount as reduced by an allowance for impairment.
e Fees and commissions net income Where fees, that have not been included within the effective interest rate calculation as described in note 1 d, are earned on the execution of a significant act, such as fees arising from negotiating or arranging a transaction for a third party, they are recognised as revenue when that act has been completed.
Fees and corresponding expenses in respect of other services are recognised in the income statement as the right to consideration or payment accrues through performance of services.
To the extent that fees and commissions are recognised in advance of billing they are included as accrued income or expense.
f Gains less losses arising from dealing in securities This includes the net gains arising from both buying and selling securities and from positions held in securities, including related interest income and dividends.
g Loans and advances Loans and advances are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers at cost including any transaction costs.
They are then amortised using the effective interest rate method as explained in note 1 d. Loans and advances are stated net of provisions for impairment losses.
Impairment provisions are made if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events regarding a significant loan or portfolio of loans loans occurring after its initial recording and which has an impact that can be reliably estimated by management.
For loans that are not considered individually significant, the group adopts a formulaic approach which allocates a loss rate which is dependent on the overdue period.
Loss rates are based on the discounted expected future cash flows from loans and are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure that they remain appropriate.
The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the loans carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
As the loan or portfolio amortises over its life, so the impairment loss may amortise.
All impairment losses are reviewed at least at each reporting date.
If subsequently the amount of the loss decreases as a result of a new event, the outstanding impairment loss is correspondingly reversed.
38 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 THE NOTES 1.
Accounting policies continued h Finance leases, operating leases and instalment finance A finance lease is a lease or hire purchase contract that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset to the lessee.
Finance leases are recognised as loans at an amount equal to the gross investment in the lease discounted at its implicit interest rate.
Finance charges on finance leases are taken to income in proportion to the net funds invested.
Rental costs under other leases and hire purchase contracts are charged to the income statement in equal annual amounts over the period of the leases.
i Equity shares and debt securities The long and short positions in equity shares and debt securities are classified as held for trading and represent the aggregate of trading positions in individual securities arising respectively from a net bought and net sold position.
They are valued at the dealers bid and offer prices respectively at the close of business.
Other investments designated at inception under the fair value option are fair valued through profit or loss at mid-market values if listed and at directors valuation if unlisted, with gains and losses being included directly in the income statement.
Investments with fixed or determinable payments that are held with the intention and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-tomaturity.
They are initially recognised at fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs and subsequently valued at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method as explained in note 1 d. Investments classified as available-for-sale are recognised at fair value with changes being accounted for through equity.
If such an asset is sold or there is objective evidence that it is impaired, the cumulative gains and losses recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement.
Fair values are obtained from independent open market sources, discounted cash flow models based on market rates or option pricing models.
Equity shares held by the employee benefit trust are deducted in arriving at equity and realised surpluses and deficits are not taken to the income statement.
j Depreciation Property, plant and equipment, including freehold investment properties held for long term investment, and intangible assets other than goodwill, are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation or amortisation and less provisions for impairment, if any.
The provision for depreciation or amortisation on these assets is calculated to write off their cost over their estimated useful lives by equal annual instalments as follows: Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10% to 33% Motor vehicles 25% Freehold and long leasehold property 2.5% Short leasehold property ove r the length of the lease Intangible assets other 10% to 25% No depreciation is provided in respect of freehold land, which is stated at cost.
k Foreign currencies For the company and those subsidiaries whose balance sheets are denominated in sterling, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange over the year and exchange differences arising in these cases are taken to the income statement.
The balance sheets of subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the closing rates.
The income statements for these subsidiaries are translated at the average rates and exchange differences arising in these cases are taken to the exchange movements reserve.
As allowed by IFRS 1, cumulative foreign exchange differences up to 31st July, 2004 have not been recognised in the exchange movements reserve.
l Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on temporary timing differences, at the rates of taxation expected to apply when these differences crystallise.
Deferred taxation assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available against which temporary differences can be set.
m Intangible assets goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of business assets before 1st August, 1998 has been written off to reserves.
From that date such goodwill arising has been capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised, in equal annual instalments, unless there has been impairment, over its estimated useful life of up to 20 years.
From 1st August, 2004, amortisation of goodwill has ceased, negative goodwill is credited to the income statement and the net book value of goodwill is subject to impairment review at least annually.
n Pensions Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged in the income statement when they become payable.
For the groups one defined benefits scheme, which was closed to new entrants in 1996 and involved at 31st July, 2006 only 105 active and deferred members, scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected credit method and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the scheme liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to the income statement over the members expected average remaining working lives.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 39 THE NOTES 1.
Accounting policies continued o Share-based awards The group has for many years operated long term incentive arrangements.
These include the 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan, the 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme and the Inland Revenue approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme, together Incentive Schemes.
The group has applied IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to all grants of equity instruments under these Incentive Schemes after 7th November, 2002.
The expense for these Incentive Schemes is measured by reference to the fair value of the shares or share options granted on the date of grant.
Such fair values are determined using option pricing models which take into account the exercise price of the option, the current share price, the risk free interest rate, the expected volatility of the companys share price over the life of the option award and other relevant factors.
Vesting conditions are not taken into account when measuring fair value, but are reflected by adjusting the number of equity instruments included in the measurement of the transaction such that the amount recognised reflects the number that actually vest.
The fair value is expensed in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
p Derivative financial instruments derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives are used within the group only to minimise the impact of interest and currency rate changes on financial assets and liabilities and meet the IAS 39 criteria for hedge accounting.
They are carried on the balance sheet at fair value which is obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, including recent market transactions, and discounted cash flow models.
On acquisition, a derivative is designated as a hedge and the group formally documents the relationship between the derivative and the hedged item.
The group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedge derivative is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
If a hedge was deemed wholly or partially ineffective, the amount of the ineffectiveness, taking into account the timing of the expected cash flows where relevant, would be recorded in the income statement.
For fair value hedges, changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
For cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated with the effective proportion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially directly in equity and recycled to the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects income.
q Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment in value.
