Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 37 THE NOTES 1.
Accounting policies a Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements are prepared, for the first time, in accordance with all relevant International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of EU Regulation.
The date of transition to IFRS and the date of the opening IFRS balance sheet was 1st August, 2004.
As allowed by IFRS 1, the group has not restated its comparative consolidated income statement and balance sheet to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The company financial statements are prepared in accordance with Section 226 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985 and with all relevant UK accounting standards.
Any differences in these standards from their IFRS counterparts are stated in the remainder of this note.
b Accounting convention The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets and all derivative contracts.
The company financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of unlisted equity shares held for investment purposes which are included in the balance sheet at directors valuation.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the groups accounting policies.
These notes set out areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity or areas where assumptions are significant to the financial statements.
These areas are the fair value of financial assets and liabilities note 27, impairment losses on loans and advances note 10 and goodwill note 30. c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the individual financial statements of Close Brothers Group plc, the company, and entities it controls its subsidiaries.
Control exists where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity.
The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted for subsidiaries.
Under this method the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition with the interest of minority shareholders stated at the minoritys proportion of these amounts.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over these net assets is booked as goodwill.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated income statement up to the date of disposal.
The consolidated financial statements consolidate the individual financial statements of its associates using the equity method.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
As allowed by IFRS 1, the group has not restated business combinations that took place before 1st August, 2004. d Net interest income Interest on loans and advances made by the group, and fee income and expense and other direct costs relating to loan origination, restructuring or commitments are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
This method applies a rate that discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts to the net carrying amount of the financial instrument.
When calculating the effective interest rate, the cash flows take into account all contractual terms of the financial instrument including transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts but not future credit losses.
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised at the original effective interest rate applied to the carrying amount as reduced by an allowance for impairment.
e Fees and commissions net income Where fees, that have not been included within the effective interest rate calculation as described in note 1 d, are earned on the execution of a significant act, such as fees arising from negotiating or arranging a transaction for a third party, they are recognised as revenue when that act has been completed.
Fees and corresponding expenses in respect of other services are recognised in the income statement as the right to consideration or payment accrues through performance of services.
To the extent that fees and commissions are recognised in advance of billing they are included as accrued income or expense.
f Gains less losses arising from dealing in securities This includes the net gains arising from both buying and selling securities and from positions held in securities, including related interest income and dividends.
g Loans and advances Loans and advances are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers at cost including any transaction costs.
They are then amortised using the effective interest rate method as explained in note 1 d. Loans and advances are stated net of provisions for impairment losses.
Impairment provisions are made if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events regarding a significant loan or portfolio of loans loans occurring after its initial recording and which has an impact that can be reliably estimated by management.
For loans that are not considered individually significant, the group adopts a formulaic approach which allocates a loss rate which is dependent on the overdue period.
Loss rates are based on the discounted expected future cash flows from loans and are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure that they remain appropriate.
The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the loans carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
As the loan or portfolio amortises over its life, so the impairment loss may amortise.
All impairment losses are reviewed at least at each reporting date.
If subsequently the amount of the loss decreases as a result of a new event, the outstanding impairment loss is correspondingly reversed.
