"209183 Absolute pp21-imp 4 5 07 14:04 Page 32 Notice of the Annual General Meeting NOTICE of the FOURTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of Shareholders to take place on 15 June 2007 at 9.30 a. m. NOTICE is hereby given pursuant to the Articles of Association of DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED the ""Company that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will take place on 15 June 2007 at 9.30 a. m. at Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, Guernsey for the purpose of considering and if thought fit, passing the following resolutions: ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS 1."
THAT the Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2006 together with the Report of the Directors and Auditors thereon be received and adopted.
THAT the appointment of KPMG Channel Islands Limited as Auditors of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2007 together with the fixing of their remuneration by the Directors for that period be and is hereby approved and ratified.
THAT Mr John Hallam be re-elected as a director.
THAT Mr Robin Bowie be re-elected as a director.
THAT Dr Paul Sharman be elected as a director.
THAT the Company be and is hereby authorised in accordance with section 5 of the Companies Purchase of Own Shares Ordinance, 1998 to make market purchases of Ordinary Shares in the Company provided that: a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares authorised to be purchased is 14.99 per cent of each class of Ordinary Shares issued by the Company: b the minimum price payable by the Company for each Share is 0.01, for each Share, 0.01, for each US$ Share, US$0.01 and for each A$ Share, A$0.01 and the maximum price payable by the Company for each Ordinary Share must not be more than the higher of i 5% above the average mid market value of the shares of the relevant class for the five business days before the purchase is made and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the regulated market where the purchase is carried out: and c such authority shall expire at the earlier of the 15 December 2008 or the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company.
By order of the Board Dexion Absolute Limited Arnold House St Julians Avenue St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 3NF Notes: 1.
A Shareholder entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of him her and a proxy need not be a Shareholder of the Company.
A form of proxy is included for use by shareholders.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she so wishes.
To be effective a Form of Proxy, duly completed together with any Power of Attorney or authority under which it is signed, must be lodged with the Transfer Agent, Capita Registrars at Proxy Processing Centre, Telford Road, Bicester, OX26 4LD, not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
There are no service contracts between any of the Directors and the Company.
