209183 Absolute pp21-imp 4 5 07 14:04 Page 31 Glossary of Hedge Fund Strategies Long Short Equities Long Short Equity strategies generally involve taking both long and short positions in equity securities that are deemed to be under or overvalued.
Although the combination of long and short investing can provide an element of protection against but not eliminate directional market exposure, long short equity Portfolio Managers generally do not attempt to neutralise the amount of long and short positions i. e. they will be net long or net short.
Portfolio Managers may specialise in a particular industry or may diversify holdings across industries.
Portfolio Managers in this strategy usually employ a low to moderate degree of leverage.
Long Short Credit Portfolio Managers implementing Long Short Credit strategies generally take both long and short positions in credit-related instruments, such as corporate bonds, bank loans, trade claims, emerging market debt and credit derivatives e. g. credit default swaps.
Portfolio Managers utilising this strategy usually invest in companies in financial difficulty, reorganisation or bankruptcy and their portfolios are often concentrated in debt instruments.
The use of leverage varies considerably.
Portfolio Managers differ in their preference for actively participating in the workout and restructuring process and the extent to which they use leverage.
Although Long Short Credit strategies typically involve positions in debt instruments and credit derivatives, the Portfolio Managers implementing this strategy perform extensive research on companies and may use this information to invest both long and short in the equity securities of such companies.
Portfolio Hedge Portfolio Hedge strategies generally seek to profit from declining security prices, through short positions in either the equity, debt or  derivatives of companies with unfavourable prospects.
The strategy performs best in declining markets and therefore is especially attractive in a multi-manager fund to help reduce the funds total exposure to general stock market movements.
Portfolio Managers use a range of fundamental and technical investment methodologies to identify potential positions, may or may not remain fully invested and use varying degrees of leverage.
Some Portfolio Managers assume modest long positions while remaining net short.
Macro Macro strategies generally involve fundamental, discretionary, directional trading in fixed income, currencies, equities and commodities, using futures and other derivatives.
Portfolio Managers invest in a wide variety of strategies and financial instruments, often assuming an aggressive risk posture.
Most Portfolio Managers rely on macro-economic analyses to invest across countries, markets, sectors and companies.
Futures and options are often used for hedging and speculation and the use of leverage varies considerably.
Activist Activist strategies generally involve taking sizeable long equity positions in individual companies in order to help put into effect changes at the company intended to unlock value that is not currently reflected in the market.
Multi-Strategy Opportunistic Fundamental Opportunistic, Relative Value Opportunistic and Event Driven combined from 1st January 2007 Multi-Strategy Opportunistic strategies generally involve Portfolio Managers dynamically allocating capital to specific trades and strategies exhibiting unique risk return characteristics in a given market environment.
Trades can be either arbitrage oriented, event-driven, or directional in nature and strategies may include long short equities, long short credit, event-driven, special situations, convertible bond arbitrage, capital structure arbitrage, volatility trading, fixed income arbitrage and statistical arbitrage.
