OFR SECTION 1 ABOUT BOOTS Boots today The Boots Group PLC is the UKs leading Health and Beauty retailer.
We have approximately 1,500 stores in the UK and Irish Republic where we serve around 8 million customers every week.
We develop and sell our own-brand health and beauty products, a number of which are leaders in their respective markets.
We also sell Boots brand products through our international business, which currently operates in 14 countries.
In total, around 63,000 people work for Boots.
Our three businesses The Boots group consists of three main businesses: Boots The Chemists Boots Opticians Boots Retail International our Health and Beauty business in our optical and eye-care business our international business has 96 the UK and Ireland, by far the biggest operates from around 300 outlets in Boots-branded stores in Thailand.
component of the group, contributing the UK, and sold 0.8 million pairs of BRI also has implants, Boots-branded over 94% of our total continuing sales glasses last year.
The business is retail spaces within larger third party in 2005 06. currently being integrated into Boots stores.
During the year under review, The Chemists, as part of our wider we had over 750 in 13 countries.
Annual review 2006 7 AR6934 Boots Annual Review 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off OFR SECTION 1 ABOUT BOOTS Boots The Chemists: a closer look As youve read, Boots The Chemists Within Boots The Chemists, there are BTC accounts for by far the largest three main businesses: part of group sales.
Stores BTC for Health BTC for Beauty and Toiletries BTC for Lifestyle A familiar part of everyday life for people The largest part of BTC, comprising We have a comprehensive range of Although Lifestyle represents a relatively in this country, our stores are mostly prescription dispensing and consumer both Cosmetics and Fragrances which small part of BTCs business, it plays an located on the nations High Streets: but, healthcare.
There are pharmacies in are supported by our specially trained important role in providing customers o in line with modern shopping trends, we almost all our stores, and in 2005 06, beauty consultants.
Boots N 7 remains with reasons to visit our stores, are rapidly increasing our presence in we dispensed over 100 million items the UKs biggest selling cosmetics brand thereby helping to drive Health and EoT retail parks, where we have opened for the first time.
The main components 48 new stores over the last three years.
of BTC Lifestyle are: An increasingly important part of our Our Toiletries business sells suncare, Brands dispensing business is our Prescription deodorant and washing and bathing Our Baby category, offering customers During 2005 06, Boots own-brand and Collection Service, which accounted for products.
Here, too, Boots own-brand the widest range of baby food and exclusive products such as our marketaround one third of all items dispensed products make a major contribution to specialist milks in the UK, alongside o leading N 7 cosmetics and Soltan in store.
sales in particular our Soltan suncare clothing, accessories, and toys: suncare ranges accounted for around range, which leads its market by revenue.
Our consumer Health business deals Our Nutrition business, which includes in over the counter OTC medicines, a range of health food products, but Loyalty scheme chemists products and vitamins and is mainly focused on the lunchtime Another hugely important contributor other healthcare items i. e. those market, with our Shapers range to our business is the Boots Advantage that can be sold without prescription.
accounting for 1.0% of total BTC sales: Card.
With almost 15 million active We have the largest share of the OTC cardholders, the Advantage Card is market within the UK.
Our Photo business, which is used in around 70% of BTC sales.
increasingly focused on digital processing, where we have the largest print estate of any retailer.
8 Annual review 2006 AR6934 Boots Annual Review 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off main heading What we stand for Ever since John Boot opened his first shop to sell affordable remedies to the poor of Nottingham in 1849, healthcare has been at the heart of our business.
As our business has grown over the last century and a half, we have played an increasingly important role in the everyday lives of millions of people.
We see evidence of that every day in our stores, but we also have independent verification in the form of a 2003 survey by The Future Foundation which found Boots to be the most trusted of all the companies included in the study.
Were proud of being one of Britains most trusted retailers, and keenly aware Our manufacturing and distribution operation that our continued success depends upon our maintaining this reputation.
Boots develops and manufactures many of its own brand products.
We believe that the Boots brand is a massively valuable asset, and its Manufacturing: We manufacture essence is succinctly expressed in the sign-off to the advertising campaign we medicines and toiletries at our headquarters site in Nottingham, and launched in 2005 06: we also produce skincare products and cosmetics at two factories in France and Germany.
As well as ownTrust brand and exclusive brand products for BTC and BRI, we also manufacture products for third party proprietary brand owners.
Around 2,360 people work in our factories.
Distribution: The groups distribution function employs around 3,430 people, working from five major warehouses and 17 distribution centres, which are operated by Boots and several third party logistics partners.
Annual review 2006 9 AR6934 Boots Annual Review 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off OFR SECTION 1 ABOUT BOOTS What were aiming to achieve Our mission Building a better Boots Healthcare first Right stores, right place To be the worlds best Health and The five pillars diagram appears here, In the UK and Ireland, we aim to be We aim to put stores of the appropriate Beauty retailer.
showing how each of these strategic everyones first choice for healthcare, size and format where our customers aims, underpinned by Driving Efficiency, by offering the widest and best range want them, and to think creatively about Our business objectives and strategy feeds into the overall objective above.
of health-related products, and by how to make shopping at Boots easier We are currently in the third year of a building on our role as trusted providers and more enjoyable.
five year plan aimed at transforming the of expert advice.
Expert customer care first Only at Boots We aim to provide our customers with Only at Expert At the heart of this plan lies the need for We aim to provide customers with the best Health and Beauty advice Boots customer Driving our businesses to operate at maximum compelling reasons to shop at Boots, available, both by training our people and care Efficiency efficiency.
And we have also identified by offering excellent, distinctive and by creating the conditions in which they five key strategic pillars on which we innovative own-brand and exclusive can perform this valuable role.
Boots Right stores, believe we can achieve our overall products.
for value right place business objective: Boots for value We aim to ensure that our customers can rely on Boots for fair and competitive pricing, and for opportunities to save money and further enhance overall value for money.
Newly defined aims, unchanging values In their current form, the strategy and objectives outlined on these pages are relatively new to Boots: but the values on which they are based can be traced back to the companys earliest days 1849 1914 1925 1930s 1935 1982 o John Boot opens shop to sell Boots starts using electric Opening of first Day and Night Introduction of our first major N 7 cosmetics launched, Boots introduces first health affordable remedies to the poor vehicles on Nottingham site Store at Piccadilly Circus in paper and cardboard recycling as The Modern Way to food range with accompanying of Nottingham London, enabling customers scheme Loveliness nutrition advice, in response to to obtain medicines round increasing customer demand the clock 10 Annual review 2006 AR6934 Boots Annual Review 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off Our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR objectives Underpinning these five specific For Boots, there has never been In all, we have set ourselves ongoing Find out more about Boots and CSR strategic aims is a further vitally any contradiction between behaving targets in over 20 specific areas where In this document, we report on a important objective that relates to every responsibly and running a successful we believe Boots has a real contribution number of ways in which doing business aspect of our business: a continuous business.
Quite the reverse, in fact: to make.
But, more broadly, these can responsibly is helping to achieve our improvement in efficiency.
since our earliest days, we have all be grouped under four main headings, commercial and strategic objectives.
understood that our success depends for each of which we have established But much more detailed information Driving efficiency upon our being both liked and trusted, an overall objective: will be available in July, when we publish is about making sure our organisation is by individual customers and the our 2006 CSR report.
lean and agile: making our IT systems communities where we do business.
Community easy to use and highly effective: making to be a responsible neighbour: Youll also find a great deal of up to date our supply chain more responsive to the And today, we are more aware than information on our new CSR website: needs of our stores and hence, our ever that our aim of being a recognised Environment customers : and driving costs down by leader in CSR is inextricably linked to our to protect it for future generations: www.
com both eliminating waste and better buying.
Marketplace In the following pages, youll find a Accordingly, we took an important to do business fairly and with integrity: detailed account of how we performed in step in 2005 when we produced our relation to these business objectives and first full CSR report, a major attempt Workplace strategic aims in 2005 06. on our part to define our responsibilities to treat our people with dignity and to establish a systematic approach and respect.
to monitoring and evaluating our performance in relation to them.
1985 1996 1997 2002 2006 Queens Award for Technological Beginning of long term Advantage Card launched, Boots starts working with 500,000 smokers helped to Achievement for Boots discovery partnership with Breast quickly becoming one of the the Carbon Trust to improve try and quit during Boots and development of ibuprofen Cancer Care UKs leading loyalty cards carbon management Change One Thing campaign marketed as Nurofen Annual review 2006 11 AR6934 Boots Annual Review 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off
