Accounting estimates and judgments continued Management discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and Advantage card Current provisioning policy assumes 95% of points will be redeemed.
disclosure of the groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the application Store refurbishment A provision has been recognised in the balance sheet at 31st March of these policies and estimates.
2006 for backlog refurbishment of stores in Boots The Chemists and Boots Opticians.
As management were fully committed to the expenditure at 31st March 2006 and because the Key sources of estimation uncertainty group had an obligation as part of its lease agreements with landlords, they believe the Stock provisions The stock provision relates to subjective stores stock and covers lines appropriate accounting treatment is to make a provision in the balance sheet at that date.
which have already been, or are shortly to be, discontinued as well as product recalls and withdrawals.
Explanation of transition to IFRS group The provision applied to uncounted stock is based on the average loss rates over the This is the first year that the group has presented its consolidated financial statements recent months on counted stock.
The provision is based on counts, which are considered under IFRS.
to be representative of all stores, excluding non-standard operations and stores with The accounting policies set out on pages 64 to 68 have been applied in preparing the significant one off losses.
financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2006, the comparative information Critical accounting judgments in applying the groups accounting policies Certain critical presented in these financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2005 and in the accounting judgments in applying the groups accounting policies are described below.
preparation of the opening IFRS balance sheet at 1st April 2004 the transition date.
Sale and leaseback Surveys carried out as part of the sales process identified repairs In preparing its opening IFRS balance sheet, the group has adjusted amounts previously required to the properties totalling 13.6m.
A clause in the sale and leaseback agreement reported in financial statements prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
An explanation requires Boots to make good these repairs within two years.
This amount has therefore of how the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS has affected the groups financial position, been included within the profit on disposal and will be carried as a provision on the balance financial performance and cash flows is set out in the following tables and notes.
sheet until all the repairs have been made.
Merger costs During 2005 2006, 7.8m of costs associated with the proposed merger with Alliance UniChem have been incurred by the company.
It is the view of management that, following the clearance of the merger by the Office of Fair Trading, the merger is now likely to proceed and on that basis feel that it is appropriate to allocate the costs to the balance sheet at 31st March 2006 and to then capitalise them during 2006 2007.
Annual report 2006 95 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off
