Notice of Meeting the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of any of Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and its ordinary shares of 25p each shares in such seventeenth Annual General Meeting of The manner and upon such terms as the Directors of the Edinburgh Investment Trust plc will be held at the Company may from time to time determine, Weston Link, National Galleries of Scotland, Princes provided that: Street, Edinburgh on Wednesday 19 July 2006 at i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised 2.30pm, for the following purposes: to be purchased is 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of the ORDINARY BUSINESS passing of this resolution: 1.
To receive the report of the Directors and Auditors ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share and the financial statements for the year ended 31 shall be 25p: March 2006. iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which 2.
To approve a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
may be paid for a share shall be an amount equal to 3.
To elect Mr James Pettigrew a Director of the 105% of the average of the middle market Company.
quotations as derived from the London Stock 4.
To re-elect Mr Scott Dobbie a Director of the Exchange Daily Official List for the shares for the Company.
five business days immediately preceding the date 5.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for of purchase: and the year ended 31 March 2006. iv unless previously revoked, renewed or varied, the 6.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors of the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the Company.
earlier of 18 January 2008 or at the conclusion of 7.
To authorise the Directors to determine the the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be remuneration of the Auditors for the year to 31 held in 2007, save that the Company may, prior to March 2007. such expiry enter into a contract or contracts to purchase shares under such authority which would SPECIAL BUSINESS or might be executed wholly or partly after the To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following expiry of such authority and the Company may resolution which will be proposed as a special make such a purchase in pursuance of any such resolution.
contract or contracts as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, the By order of the Board Company be and it is hereby authorised in Fidelity Investments International accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act Secretary 1985 the Act, to make market purchases within 15 June 2006 NOTES: be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and, on a that time.
Changes to the entries in the register of poll, vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a members after 6.00pm on 17 July 2006 or, in the event that member of the Company.
the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 2.
A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed with hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be these accounts.
Completion and return of the form of disregarded in determining the rights of any person to proxy will not prevent any shareholder from attending the attend or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any meeting and voting in person.
To be valid, the form of provisions in any enactment, the Articles of Association of proxy should be lodged, together with any power of the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed 4.
There are special arrangements for holders of shares or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority at through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and the the address stated thereon, so as to be received not less Fidelity Investment Trust ISA PEP, and for holders through than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
the Aberdeen Investment Trust Share Plan, the Aberdeen 3.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Investment Trust PEP, the Aberdeen ISA and the Edinburgh Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those Fund Managers Investment Trust Pension.
These are shareholders entered on the register of members of the explained in the Letter of Direction which such holders will Company as at 6.00pm on 17 July 2006 or, in the event have received with this report.
that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 5.
Copies of the Directors letters of appointment will be 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall available prior to the Annual General Meeting.
Page 46 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2006 Investing in The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc The Manager of this Company Fidelity Investments International offers a range of options, so you can invest in the way that is best investment for you.
As The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is a listed company you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA MOVING MONEY FROM A Fidelity ISA Individual Savings Account can be PREVIOUS PEPS AND ISAS an excellent way to get more from your investment, If you have opened ISAs or PEPs with other investment because you will not have to pay income or capital companies, you can move them into The Edinburgh gains tax on your returns.
Investment Trust plc without losing any tax benefits.
This is known as a transfer and it can be a great way to up to 7,000 in a Maxi ISA give your portfolio a new focus, or to realign it with your current investment goals.
Please note that during up to 4,000 in a Mini stocks and shares ISA the transfer your money will not be invested in the stock market so you may miss out on any growth The minimum investment in the Fidelity Investment during this time.
Trust ISA is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
Charges The standard initial charge for a transfer is 3.5%.
You will not have to pay any additional transfer 5 in 1 ISA The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is one costs.
However, please bear in mind that your current of five investment trusts managed by Fidelity.
You can ISA or PEP manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
invest in the entire range through the Fidelity 5-in-1 ISA, The annual charge is as shown in the Investing inside which spreads your money equally across all five trusts.
This offers a simple and convenient way to invest across Europe, the UK, Japan and Asia giving you a broadly diversified portfolio in a single investment.
Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity ISA is 3.5%.
The annual ISA administration charge for The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc in a Fidelity ISA is 0.5% VAT.
There is an additional annual charge of 0.5% VAT when you invest through an Independent Financial Adviser.
KEEPING YOU UPDATED If you hold The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc in an ISA or PEP, you will receive a yearly report detailing all your transactions and the value of your shares.
Investors with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan will receive statements and valuations twice a year.
The share price of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc appears daily in The Financial Times, The Times, The Guardian, The Daily Telegraph, The Scotsman and The Herald.
Price and performance information is also available at itseit.
Investors can obtain the real-time share price by phoning FT Cityline on 0906 843 2422.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2006 Page 47 Investing in The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA Investment Trust Share Plan and Fidelity will cover any If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already used exit fees charged by Aberdeen.
This transfer could be your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment Trust Share particularly useful for investors who wish to restart a Plan offers you a low-cost and convenient way to put monthly savings plan no longer available with the money into The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc.
Aberdeen Investment Trust Share Plan and want all their holdings together in one account.
The minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
An additional bonus for investors transferring holdings from Aberdeen is that Fidelity will accept monthly Investing for children The Share Plan is a flexible and savings contributions below its normal minimum inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All you investment of 50 a month.
have to do is enter the initials or name of the child in the Designation Box on the Share Plan application Holding shares directly Finally, if you have shares in form.
An information pack on investing for children The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc that you bought through investment trusts is available from Fidelity.
through a broker or share shop, you can transfer them Please call 0800 41 41 10 to request a copy.
into the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan.
Doing this allows you to reinvest your dividends and make further Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or investments without having to pay brokerage fees.
You holding shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust will also be able to set up a monthly savings plan and Share Plan other than Stamp Duty of 0.5%, which is receive statements and valuations twice a year.
currently payable on all share purchases.
However, if you invest through an Independent Financial Adviser, INVESTING ON LINE there may be an initial charge of up to 3%.
You can buy shares on line via Fidelitys ShareNetwork at www.
ShareNetwork allows MOVING EXISTING SHARES TO FIDELITY you to hold shares either inside or outside an ISA.
"For If you have an Edinburgh Investment Trust plc ISA or shares outside an ISA, the system provides personal PEP with the previous manager, Edinburgh Fund CREST membership, which means that you are an Managers ""EFM"", you will have been advised that its investor in your own name on the Edinburgh Investment management has been transferred to Aberdeen Asset Trust register."
"ISA rules require shares in an ISA to be Management ""Aberdeen""."
You can transfer your held in the name of the ISA plan managers nominee Aberdeen ISA or PEP to Fidelity who will pay the exit account.
Purchase or sales of shares via ShareNetwork fee charged by Aberdeen.
are carried out at a flat rate of 9, however large the transaction.
Stamp duty at 0.5% is payable on all share Alternatively, if you have invested through the purchases.
The only other charge is a 5 per month Aberdeen Investment Trust Share Plan formerly the account administration fee, which is a flat rate however EFM InvestIT Saving Scheme or the EFM LEAP Saving many different shares are owned.
Scheme you can move your shares to the Fidelity FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, near St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited and the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by Fidelity Investments International, administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars and shares will be held in the name of Lloyds TSB Registrars Savings Nominees Limited.
Both companies are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity only provides information about its products and will not give investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Issued by Fidelity Investments International.
CB27329 na Page 48 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2006 Financial Calendar This years Annual General Meeting will be held at Announcements, ordinary share dividend payments, the Weston Link, National Galleries of Scotland, debenture stock interest payments and the issue of Princes Street, Edinburgh on Wednesday 19 July the annual and interim reports may normally be 2006 at 2.30pm.
Shareholders are asked to reply on expected in the following months: 3 the enclosed form if they will be attending the March Interest paid on 7 4% debenture stock.
May Preliminary figures and recommended final dividend for year announced.
Following the meeting shareholders will have the June Annual report and accounts published.
opportunity to meet the Board and Manager 1 Interest paid on 11 2% debenture stock.
Tea and biscuits will be served.
July Annual General Meeting and final dividend paid.
3 September Interest paid on 7 4% debenture stock.
October Interim figures and interim dividend announced.
November Interim report for half-year to 30 September published.
1 Interest paid on 11 2% debenture stock.
