Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual prepare the financial statements on the going Report and the financial statements in accordance with concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume applicable law and regulations.
that the Company will continue in business.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare The Directors are responsible for keeping proper financial statements for each financial year.
Under that accounting records that disclose with reasonable law they have elected to prepare the financial accuracy at any time the financial position of the statements in accordance with UK Accounting Company and enable them to ensure that its financial Standards.
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps The financial statements are required by law to give a as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company assets of the Company and to prevent and detect and of the profit or loss of the Company for that fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are In preparing these financial statements, the Directors also responsible for preparing a Directors Report are required to: including a Business Review, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that select suitable accounting policies and then apply comply with that law and those regulations.
them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and reasonable and prudent: integrity of the corporate and financial information state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the have been followed, subject to any material UK governing the preparation and dissemination of departures disclosed and explained in the financial financial statements may differ from legislation in other statements: and jurisdictions.
Capital Gains Tax Information The market value of an ordinary share in the Company on 31 March 1982 was 58.49p.
The price does not apply to shares held in Scottish United Investors plc at 31 March 1982 which were subsequently acquired by the Company.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2006 Page 23
