Glossary Discount The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust is lower than the net asset value per share.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Dividend Yield The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share price.
Earnings per share Revenue attributable to equity Shareholders divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares.
Net Asset Value The value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose include current liabilities.
The net asset value divided by the number of shares in issue produces the net asset value per share.
Total Assets Total assets less current liabilities.
Total Expense Ratio Total expenses after tax divided by the average net asset value during the period.
Total Return Share Price Total Return involves reinvesting the net dividend in the month that the share price goes xd.
The NAV Total Return involves investing the same net dividend in the NAV of the trust on the date to which that dividend was earned, eg quarter end, half year or year end date.
Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc 41 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundredth and third Annual General Meeting of Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc will be held at the registered office of the Company, Donaldson House, 97 Haymarket Terrace, Edinburgh EH12 5HD on Thursday 18 May 2006 at 11.00 a. m. for the following purposes: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which Resolutions 1 to 9 inclusive will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and Resolutions 10 to 11 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: ORDINARY BUSINESS 1.
To receive the reports of the Directors and auditors and the financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2006.
To receive the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 January 2006.
To propose a final dividend of 3.70p on the Ordinary shares.
To re-elect Guy Crawford as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir Angus Grossart as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the auditors for the year to 31 January 2007.
That, the Board of Directors be released from the obligation in Article 152 of the Companys articles of association to convene an extraordinary general meeting of the Company to be held on 31 July 2006 at which an ordinary resolution will be proposed pursuant to Section 84 of the Insolvency Act 1986 requiring the Company to be wound up voluntarily.
"That, in substitution for any existing power under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the ""Act"", but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date of this resolution, the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 80 of the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,729,389, such authority to expire on 17 August 2007 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2007, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may, at any time prior to the expiry of such authority, make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of such authority and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired. """
That, subject to the passing of resolution numbered 9 in the notice of meeting and in substitution for any exisiting power under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of sections 94 2 to 94 3A of the Act for cash at a price not below the net asset value per share, pursuant to the authority under section section 80 of the Act conferred by the resolution numbered 9 in the notice of meeting as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,729,389, provided that this power shall be limited: i to the allotment of equity securities in connection with any issue in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the register on a date fixed by the Directors where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all the holders of ordinary shares are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on that date, provided that the Directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws in any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange: and ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i of this Resolution of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,018,817 being 10% of the nominal value of the existing issued share capital of the Company: 42 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc and such power shall expire on 17 August 2007 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2007, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
That, in substitution for any existing authority under section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with section 166 of the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of fully paid Ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary shares, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary share shall be 25p exclusive of expenses : c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary share shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the Ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 17 August 2007 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2007, save that the Company may, at any time prior to such expiry, enter into a contract or contracts to purchase Ordinary shares under such authority which will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts.
3 April 2006 By order of the Board Registered office: Donaldson House Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Edinburgh EH12 5HD Secretary Notes: 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed with these accounts.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent any shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To be valid, the form of proxy should be lodged, together with any Power of Attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or an extract from the Books of Council and Session or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority at the address stated thereon, so as to be received not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those shareholders entered on the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 16 May 2006 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of Ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries on the register of members after 6.00pm on 16 May 2006 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any provisions in any enactment, the articles of association of the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
There are special arrangements for holders of shares through The Investment Trust Share Plan, Investment Trust PEP ISA and Investment Trust Pension.
These are explained in the Letter of Direction which such holders will have received with this report.
Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc 43 Corporate Information Manager, Secretary and Registered Office Bankers Edinburgh Fund Managers plc RBC Dexia Investor Services Limited Donaldson House 71 Queen Victoria Street 97 Haymarket Terrace London EC4V 4DE Edinburgh EH12 5HD Telephone: 0131 313 1000 Auditors Website: www.
com KPMG Audit Plc Authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Saltire Court Authority 20 Castle Terrace Edinburgh EH1 2EG Website www.
co. uk Company Broker Close WINS Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC Company Registration Number PO Box 82 SC 5218 The Pavilions Bridgewater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Telephone: 0870 702 0000 Website: www.
co. uk 44 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Edinburgh US Tracker cgi.
qxd 8 2 06 6:04 pm Page 1 Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Donaldson House 97 Haymarket Terrace Edinburgh EH12 5HD Tel 0131 313 1000 G
