Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 January 2006 1.
Accounting policies A summary of the principal accounting policies, all of which have been consistently applied throughout the year and the preceding year is set out below.
a Basis of preparation and going concern The accounts have been prepared under the historic cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of investments.
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK Accounting Standards, with the Statement of Recommended Practice 'Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies' issued January 2003 and revised in December 2005 and on the assumption that approval as an investment trust will continue to be granted.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors believe this is appropriate for the reasons outlined in the Directors' Report on page 19.
The financial statements, and the net asset value per share figures, have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
The new Financial Reporting Standards, issued as part of the programme to converge UK GAAP with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, were applicable for the accounting period ended 31 January 2006 and the financial statements for the twelve months ended 31 January 2005 have also been restated see note 22.
The main change arising from these revisions to UK GAAP, in relation to the Companys financial statements, is that dividends to shareholders declared after the balance sheet date are now shown in the period of payment rather than in the reporting period.
Dividends were previously recognised in the statement of total return now income statement.
These are now dealt with as an appropriation of equity and are taken directly through equity in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders' funds.
A further change arising from the revisions to UK GAAP is the recognition of investments at fair value, which for listed investments is deemed to be bid market prices or closing prices for SETS stocks.
For Edinburgh US Tracker Trust, therefore, the change of valuation basis has no impact as the closing price, which was used for both years, is deemed to be fair value.
b Investment Income, interest receivable, expenses and interest payable Dividends other than special dividends, including taxes deducted at source, are included in revenue by reference to the date on which the investment is quoted ex-dividend.
Special dividends are reviewed on a case-by-case basis and may be credited to capital, if circumstances dictate.
Interest receivable on bank balances, expenses and interest payable are dealt with on an accruals basis.
All expenses are charged to revenue except where they directly relate to the acquisition or disposal of an investment, in which case, they are added to the cost of the investment or deducted from the sale proceeds.
c Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences, that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more or a right to pay less tax in future have occurred at the balance sheet date, measured on an undiscounted basis and based on enacted tax rates.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Timing differences are differences arising between the Company's taxable profits and its results as stated in the accounts which are capable of reversal in one or more subsequent periods.
Due to the Company's status as an investment trust company, and the intention to continue to meet the conditions required to obtain approval for the foreseeable future, the Company has not provided deferred tax on any capital gains and losses arising on the revaluation or disposal of investments.
d Investments Listed investments have been designated upon initial recognition as fair value through profit and loss.
Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date where a purchase or sale is under a contract whose terms require delivery within the timeframe established by the market concerned and are initially measured at fair value.
Transaction costs on purchases and sales are expensed through the Income Statement.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investments are valued at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in net profit or loss for the period as a capital item in the Income Statement and are ultimately recognised in the unrealised reserve.
Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc 29
