Notes to the Financial Statements continued 21.
Risk management, financial assets and liabilities Risk management The main risk to the Company is the failure to track closely the S & P 500 Index.
The main risks associated with the Company's financial instruments are market price risk, foreign currency risk and liquidity risk.
The Company has established a framework for managing these risks which is evolving continually as the Company's investment activities change in response to market developments.
The Directors have provided the Manager with guidelines for the management of investments and financial instruments.
Market price risk The Company's exposure to market price risk comprises of changes in interest rates, valuations awarded to equities, movements in prices and liquidity of financial instruments.
In pursuing the Company's primary objective of tracking the Index, the Company does not increase the level of cash balances through the sale of equities.
Foreign currency risk The Company's portfolio is invested in US quoted securities, and therefore US Dollar exchange rate movements can significantly affect the Sterling value of the portfolio and income therefrom.
The Company does not hedge against foreign currency movements affecting the value of the portfolio or income.
Liquidity risk The Company's assets comprise of mainly realisable securities, which can be sold to meet funding commitments if necessary.
The Company places funds with authorised deposit takers from time to time and is therefore potentially at risk from the failure of any such institution of which it is a creditor.
Financial assets and liabilities 7KH Company's financial instruments comprise equity investments, cash balances and debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations: for example, in respect of sales and purchases awaiting settlement.
Fixed asset investments see note 8 are valued at closing market prices, which equates to their fair value.
The fair values of all other assets and liabilities are represented by their carrying values in the Balance Sheet.
The Company holds cash on deposit in foreign currencies.
The sterling value of cash and short term deposits can be significantly affected by movements in foreign exchange rates.
The tables below sets out the currency exposure of the cash and short term deposits as at 31 January 2006 and 2005: Interest Local Foreign Sterling rate currency exchange equivalent As at 31 January 2006 % '000 rate '000 US Dollar 4.50 8,635 1.7774 4,858 Sterling 4.50579 579 Total cash on deposit per Balance Sheet 5,437 36 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc
