iv Market purchase of the Companys own Ordinary shares Resolution 11, which is a special resolution, will, if approved, authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own Ordinary shares.
The maximum aggregate number of Ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be 14.99% of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of the resolution approximately 12.10 million Ordinary shares.
The minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary share shall be 25p exclusive of expenses.
The maximum price for an Ordinary share again exclusive of expenses shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Company's Ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so would result in an increase in net asset value per Ordinary share for the remaining shareholders and is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
This authority will expire on 17 August 2007 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2007 unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting.
By order of the Board Edinburgh Fund Managers plc 16 March 2006 Secretary, Edinburgh Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: x select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: x make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: x state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and x prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc 21
