Notes to the Financial Statements continued e Dividends payable Interim and final dividends are recognised in the period in which they are paid.
f Capital reserve Realised Gains or losses on investments realised in the year that have been recognised in the income statement are transferred to the realised capital reserve.
In addition, any prior unrealised gains or losses on such investments are transferred from the unrealised capital reserve to realised capital reserve on disposal of the investment.
The cost of share buybacks are deducted from this reserve.
Unrealised Increases and decreases in the fair value of investments are recognised in the income statement and are then transferred to the unrealised capital reserve.
g Foreign currencies Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling on the balance sheet date.
Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Gains and losses on the realisation of foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement and are then transferred to the realised capital reserve.
Income '000 '000 Income from investments Dividends from overseas listed investments 8,452 7,573 Other income Deposit interest 179 116 Total income 8,631 7,689 2006 2005 3.
Investment management fee '000 '000 Investment management fee 926 881 The management fee paid to Edinburgh Fund Managers plc is 0.05% per quarter of the total assets.
The fee is subject to VAT at the appropriate rate although the Company currently recovers all VAT paid.
The total value of commonly managed funds at the year end was nil 2005 - nil.
The management agreement between the Company and Edinburgh Fund Managers plc is terminable by either party on three months' notice.
In the event of a resolution being passed at the AGM to wind up the Company the Manager shall be entitled to three months' notice from the date the resolution was passed.
In the event of termination on not less than the agreed notice period, compensation is payable in lieu of the unexpired notice period.
30 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc
