Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments comprise cash, bank loans and overdrafts, and various items such as trade receivables and trade payables that arise directly from its operations.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
Exposure to interest rate risk arises in the normal course of the Groups business and interest rate swaps are used to hedge exposure to fluctuations in interest rates.
The Group has no exposure to currency risk as all its financial assets and liabilities are denominated in sterling.
Throughout the year, the Groups policy has been that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
Interest rate risk Hedging The Group mitigates its exposure to changes in interest rates on a core level of borrowings through procuring interest rate swaps, denominated in sterling.
At 31 December 2006, the Group held interest rate swaps totalling 40 million 2005: 40 million designated as a hedge over 40 million 2005: 40 million of borrowings.
The principal sums, draw down dates and maturity dates match those of the floating rate borrowings over which the swaps provide the hedge.
The Group classifies these interest rate swaps, subject to the swaps remaining effective hedges, as cashflow hedges and measures them at fair value.
These amounts were recognised as derivatives measured at fair value.
Effective interest rates and repricing analysis In respect of income-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest rates at the balance sheet date and the periods in which they reprice.
Over the longer-term, however, permanent changes in interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
For the year ended 31 December 2006, it is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in interest rates applying for the full year would decrease the Groups profit before tax by approximately 140,000 year ended 31 December 2005: decrease of 131,000.
Interest rate swaps have been included in this calculation.
Fair values There is no material difference between the carrying value of financial instruments shown in the balance sheet and their fair value.
Estimation of fair values The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments: Land purchased on extended payment terms When land is purchased on extended payment terms, the Group initially records it at its fair value with a land creditor recorded for any outstanding monies based on this fair value assessment.
Fair value is determined by using the effective interest method.
The difference between the nominal value and the initial fair value is amortised over the period of the extended credit term and charged to finance costs, increasing the value of the land creditor such that at the date of maturity the land creditor equals the payment required.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest flows.
Interest rate swaps At each period end, an external valuation of the fair value of each interest rate swap is obtained from the relevant swap providers.
Trade and other receivables payables Other than land creditors, the nominal value of trade receivables and payables is deemed to reflect the fair value.
This is due to the fact that transactions which give rise to these trade receivables and payables arise in the normal course of trade with industry standard payment terms.
Interest rates used for determining fair value The Group uses the effective interest rate of its bank loans to discount financial instruments.
For the year ended 31 December 2006 the interest rate used to discount was 6.4% year ended 31 December 2005: 6.1%.
