Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Operating leases Leases as lessee Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: Group 2006 2005 000 000 Less than one year 52 52 Between one and five years 169 208 More than five years - 13 Operating leases 221 273 With regard to the operating leases held by the Group as lessor, the Group recognised 519,000 of rental income in the income statement in 2006.
234,000 related to the temporary rental of surplus office space by the Group.
The remainder primarily related to the ground rents collected on the freehold of leasehold apartments sold by the Group prior to the freehold disposal.
Capital commitments The Group is committed to incur capital expenditure of 84,000 2005: 200,000.
This relates to plant and equipment.
Contingencies The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of bonds and other agreements entered into in the normal course of business and the Company has guaranteed the performance of certain of these agreements entered into by its subsidiary companies.
The Company had guaranteed the repayment of bank loans made to one of its subsidiaries under bilateral loan facility agreements which amounted to 40 million at 31 December 2006 31 December 2005: 55 million.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Accounting estimates and judgements Management discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Land held for development and housing work in progress The Group holds inventories which are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
To assess the net realisable value of land held for development and housing work in progress, the Group completes a financial appraisal of the likely revenue which will be generated when these inventories are combined as residential properties for sale and sold.
Where the financial appraisal demonstrates that the revenue will exceed the costs of the inventories and other associated costs of constructing the residential properties, the inventories are stated at cost.
Where the assessed revenue is lower, the extent to which there is a shortfall is written off through the income statement leaving the inventories stated at a recoverable value.
To the extent that the revenues which can be generated change, the net realisable value of the inventories may be different.
Based on the appraisals completed at or close to the year end, there were no net realisable value write offs necessary and management remain content that the inventory values are fully recoverable.
Part exchange properties The carrying values of part exchange properties are assessed based on external valuations completed on the properties.
These valuations are based on the prevailing market conditions in the second hand housing market and to the extent that housing market pricing levels change, the values of the part exchange properties may vary.
Part exchange property values at the end of the financial year were based on recent valuations and were based on realistic market expectations.
Financial instruments The Group mitigates its exposure to interest rates through using interest rate swaps.
These interest rate swaps are held at their fair value.
This fair value is based on the likely income or cost associated with terminating the swap at the balance sheet date.
Where interest rates are volatile, the fair value of the interest rate swaps may vary as interest rates change.
The fair value of the Groups interest rate swaps reflected the interest rate position at the balance sheet date.
Pension assumptions The Group has utilised a range of assumptions including a rate of return on assets, a discount rate and mortality assumptions having been advised by its actuary.
To the extent that such assumed rates are different from what actually transpires, the pension liability of the Group would change.
60 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
Note 2: Return on shareholders funds has been calculated as profit after interest and tax over closing shareholders funds.
Note 3: Return on capital employed has been calculated as profit before interest and tax over the average of opening and closing shareholders funds plus debt.
