Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Change of control In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or voluntary winding up of the Company, unexercised options will become exercisable for a limited period providing that the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the performance conditions have been satisfied measured at the date of the change of control but reduced if necessary to reflect the period of time that has elapsed between the date of grant start of the performance period and the relevant event as a proportion of the three year performance period.
Options which are not exercised during that period will lapse.
Alternatively, option holders may be given the opportunity to exchange their options for equivalent options over shares in the acquiring company.
The Remuneration Committee will have discretion to allow options to be exercised over a greater or lesser number if it considers it appropriate.
Options will not become exercisable on an internal reorganisation but will be rolled-over into options over shares in the new holding company.
Provisions relating only to HMRC approved options It is intended to seek HMRC approval for the grant of HMRC approved options, which are those satisfying the requirements of Schedule 4 to the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003.
HMRC approved options are subject to the same provisions as summarised above except that: - individual limit: an employee cannot be granted an approved option which would, at the time it is granted, enable the employee to acquire shares under approved option schemes which are not savings-related exceeding the HMRC limit from time to time, which is currently 30,000: and - HMRC approval: any amendment to a key feature of the Share Option Plan requires the prior approval of HMRC.
Items 10 and 11: The Bovis Homes Group PLC 2007 Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme and the Bovis Homes Group PLC 2007 Share Option Plan Administration The SAYE Scheme will be administered by the Board or the Remuneration Committee.
The Share Option Plan will be administered by the Remuneration Committee.
Limits on the issue of shares The rules of the SAYE Scheme and the Share Option Plan permit options to be granted over shares that are to be newly issued, are held in the Companys treasury or purchased in the market.
To the extent that new shares are to be issued to satisfy options granted under the SAYE Scheme and the Share Option Plan: a no options may be granted under the Share Option Plan if it would cause the aggregate number of shares that are capable of being issued pursuant to options granted under the Share Option Plan, when added to the number of shares issued or issuable pursuant to rights to subscribe for shares granted during the preceding ten years under the Share Option Plan or any other discretionary executive share plan operated by the Company excluding rights granted prior to the Companys flotation on the London Stock Exchange, to exceed five percent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital from time to time: and b no option may be granted under the Share Option Plan or the SAYE Scheme if it would cause the aggregate number of shares that are capable of being issued pursuant to options granted under the Share Option Plan and the SAYE Scheme, together with any other share plans operated by the Company when added to the number of shares issued or issuable pursuant to rights to subscribe for shares granted during the preceding ten years under the those plans or any other employee share plan operated by the Company excluding rights granted prior to the Companys flotation on the London Stock Exchange, to exceed ten percent of the Companys issued share capital at the proposed date of grant.
Treasury shares will count as new issue shares for the purposes of these limits.
Shares under option that have lapsed or been surrendered are excluded when calculating these limits.
If options are to be satisfied by a transfer of existing shares, the percentage limits stated above will not apply.
Rights attaching to shares Any shares allotted when an option is exercised will rank equally with all other shares of the Company in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date before their allotment.
Variation of capital In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital including a capitalisation issue, a rights issue, a sub-division or consolidation of shares, or a reduction in capital, or in the event of a demerger, payment of a capital dividend or similar event involving the Company, the Remuneration Committee may make the adjustments it considers appropriate to the number of shares under option or comprised in an award granted under the SAYE Scheme and the Share Option Plan and any option exercise price, subject to the approval of HMRC in the case of options granted under the SAYE Scheme and HMRC approved options granted under the Share Option Plan.
Participants rights Benefits under the SAYE Scheme and the Share Option Plan are not pensionable.
Options granted under the SAYE Scheme and the Share Option Plan are not transferable and may only be released to or exercised by the persons to whom they were granted or their personal representatives.
66 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
