Notice of meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 2007 Annual General Meeting of Bovis Homes Group PLC will be held at The Institute of Directors, 116 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5ED on Friday 11 May 2007 at 11.30am for the following purposes: Resolution Ordinary business 1 To receive and adopt the audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2006 and the reports of the directors and auditors.
2 To approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2006.
3 To declare the final dividend recommended by the directors.
4 To re-appoint Mrs Lesley Anne MacDonagh as a director of the Company, who retires by rotation.
5 To re-appoint Timothy David Melville-Ross as a director of the Company, who retires by rotation.
6 To re-appoint Colin Peter Holmes as a director of the Company, appointed by the Board of directors since the last Annual General Meeting.
7 To re-appoint Neil Cooper as a director of the Company, appointed by the Board of directors since the last Annual General Meeting.
8 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company.
9 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
Special business As special business to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions: 10 Ordinary resolution That the Bovis Homes Group PLC 2007 Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme, the main features of which are described in item 10 in the explanatory notes to this Notice and the rules of which are produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification, be and is hereby approved and that the directors be and are hereby authorised to do all acts and things which they may consider necessary and expedient to carry the same into effect.
11 Ordinary resolution That the Bovis Homes Group PLC 2007 Share Option Plan, the main features of which are described in item 11 in the explanatory notes to this Notice and the rules of which are produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification, be and is hereby approved and that the directors be and are hereby authorised to do all acts and things which they may consider necessary and expedient to carry the same into effect.
12 Ordinary resolution That, in substitution for the existing authority for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act conferred upon the directors by a resolution passed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 10 May 2006, the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Act to allot relevant securities which for the purposes of this resolution shall have the same meaning as in Section 80 2 of the Act of the Company PROVIDED THAT: i the maximum amount of relevant securities that may be allotted pursuant to the authority given by this resolution shall be up to an aggregate nominal amount of 14,707,421.50 being equal to the unissued share capital of the Company: ii subject as provided in sub-paragraph iii below, such authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2008 or fifteen months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but may be previously revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution of the Company: iii such authority shall permit and enable the directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of such authority, which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and to allot such securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired: and iv in relation to the grant of any rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company, the reference in this resolution to the maximum amount of relevant securities that may be allotted is to the maximum amount of shares which may be allotted pursuant to such rights.
13 Special resolution That the directors pursuant to the general authority conferred on them by ordinary resolution number 12 above be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 2 of the Act for cash as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotments, such power to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2008 or fifteen months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier but so as to enable the Company, before the expiry of such power, to make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and to enable the directors to allot equity securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the power conferred thereby had not expired and to be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with an invitation or offering by way of rights to ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interest of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory authority or any stock exchange: and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,014,628.50 being 5% of the issued share capital of the Company.
62 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Notice of meeting continued 14 Special resolution That the Company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority, for the purposes of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of the ordinary shares of 50 pence each in its capital PROVIDED THAT: i this authority shall be limited so that the number of ordinary shares of 50 pence each which may be acquired pursuant to this authority does not exceed an aggregate of 12,058,515 ordinary shares and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2008 except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded before such time and which is executed wholly or partly after such time : ii the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be the higher of: a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Company agrees to buy the ordinary shares: and b the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case exclusive of expenses : and iii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 50 pence in each case exclusive of expenses.
Bovis Homes Group PLC By Order of the Board The Manor House, North Ash Road M T D Palmer New Ash Green, Longfield Company Secretary Kent DA3 8HQ 10 April 2007 Notes: i Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives notice that only holders of ordinary shares entered on the register no later than 6.00pm on 9 May 2007 will be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
Changes to entries on the register after 6.00pm on 9 May 2007 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Shareholders of the Company may appoint one or more proxies whether members or not to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of the member.
Participants of the Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Plan may instruct the trustee to vote on their behalf on a poll.
The instrument appointing a proxy, and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that power or authority must be received at the office of the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, Bristol BS99 3FA or received via the Computershare website, www-uk.
com full details of the procedures are given on the website not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Completion of the proxy form will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person instead of his her proxy.
The Company will announce the level of proxy votes for and against each resolution and the number of abstentions once the resolution has been voted on by a show of hands, except where a poll is called.
When announcing a decision on a poll, the Company will disclose the total number of votes in favour and against and the number of abstentions.
If a member returns paper and electronic proxy instructions, those received last by the Registrar before the latest time for receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Members are advised to read the website terms and conditions of use carefully.
ii To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by the issuers agent ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. iii The following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office, during normal business hours, on any weekday excluding public holidays from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and on that date they will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 11.00am until the conclusion of the meeting: a copies of the directors service contracts: b copies of the terms and conditions of appointment for each non-executive director: c the register of directors interests: d the rules of the Bovis Homes Group PLC 2007 Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme: and e the rules of the Bovis Homes Group PLC 2007 Share Option Plan.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 63 Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting Item 1: Report and accounts The directors must present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the report of the directors and the accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The report of the directors, the accounts and the report of the Company's auditors on the accounts are contained within the annual report and accounts.
Item 2: Directors remuneration The directors are required to present the report on directors remuneration, which sets out remuneration policy, to shareholders for approval under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The report on directors remuneration can be found on pages 29 to 36 of the report and accounts.
Item 3: Final dividend Subject to the declaration of the final dividend at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on 25 May 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30 March 2007.
It is intended that a scrip dividend alternative will also be offered to shareholders.
Items 4, 5, 6 and 7: Re-appointment of directors The Company's Articles of Association require that at every Annual General Meeting one third of the directors who are subject to retirement by rotation shall retire from office.
Mrs Lesley Anne MacDonagh and Timothy David Melville-Ross will retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-appointment.
The Company's Articles of Association also require that any director appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting shall hold office only until the next following Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Colin Peter Holmes and Neil Cooper will offer themselves for re-appointment.
The 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance contains provisions dealing with the re-appointment of non-executive directors.
In relation to the re-appointment of Mrs Lesley Anne MacDonagh as a non-executive director, the Chairman has confirmed following the formal performance evaluation conducted during 2006 that she continues to be effective in and demonstrate commitment to her role, including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings.
In relation to the re-appointment of Timothy David Melville-Ross as a non-executive director, the Senior Independent Director has confirmed following the formal performance evaluation that he continues to be effective in and demonstrate commitment to his role, including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings and his appointment as Chairman.
The Chairman has also confirmed that Colin Peter Holmes has been effective in and demonstrated commitment to his role, including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings, since his appointment on 1 December 2006.
Brief details of all the directors are to be found on page 20 of the report and accounts.
Items 8 and 9: Re-appointment of auditors and auditors remuneration The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 8 proposes the re-appointment of the Company's existing auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, for a further year.
Resolution 9 gives authority to the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Item 10: The Bovis Homes Group PLC 2007 Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme The Company proposes to establish the Bovis Homes Group PLC 2007 Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme the SAYE Scheme to supersede the Bovis Homes Group PLC Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme which will terminate on the tenth anniversary of its adoption, being 4 November 2007.
Overview Under the terms of the SAYE Scheme, employees of Bovis Homes Group PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group may be granted options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company shares at a fixed exercise price the option exercise price.
In order to exercise the option granted to them employees are required to save each month into a savings account for a period of either three or five years the savings contract.
At the end of the savings contract, a tax free bonus is payable on the savings in the savings account.
Employees will have a right to acquire the number of shares which they are able to acquire at the option exercise price using the savings in their savings account and the bonus.
Employees may choose either to use the funds accumulated to exercise the option within six months of the end of the savings period or to have the savings and bonus repaid to them.
Employees who save for a period of five years may leave their savings with the savings carrier for a further two years, at which point an enhanced bonus is payable.
The Company intends to apply for approval of the SAYE Scheme by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC.
This will enable options granted under the SAYE Scheme potentially to benefit from favourable tax treatment.
Grant period Options may be granted within the 42 days commencing on i the date of HMRC approval of the SAYE Scheme: ii the day immediately following the day on which the Company makes an announcement of its results for the last preceding financial year, half year or other period: iii any day on which the Board resolves that exceptional circumstances exist which justify the grant of options: or iv any day on which any change to the legislation affecting savings-related share option schemes approved by HMRC is proposed or made.
Eligibility All eligible employees including the executive directors of the Company who have been employed for a minimum period not exceeding five years or have otherwise been nominated as eligible by the Board, are entitled to participate in the SAYE Scheme.
In accordance with HMRC legislation, all employees eligible to participate must do so on similar terms.
Employee contributions The maximum amount that an employee may save each month during the savings contract is currently 250 per month.
Option exercise price The option exercise price may be set by the Board at a discount of up to 20% to the middle market quotation for a share as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange on the dealing day preceding the date of invitation or, if the Board so decides, averaged over the three days preceding the date of invitation.
The option exercise price may not be less than the nominal value of a share.
64 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Cessation of employment An option holder who ceases to be an employee of a member of the Group in certain circumstances for example due to injury, disability, redundancy, retirement on or after age 60 or following a sale of the employing company or transfer of the employing business out of the Group may exercise all outstanding options within six months of ceasing to be an employee.
If an option holder dies, his personal representative may exercise the option within twelve months of the earlier of the date of death or the bonus date of the option.
An option holder who leaves the Group in these circumstances may only exercise outstanding options to the extent of the savings plus interest and or bonus that has accumulated in the savings account up to the date of exercise.
If an option holder ceases to be an employee of a member of the Group for any other reason except for gross misconduct he may exercise outstanding options which were granted more than three years before the cessation of his employment.
Any options which have not been exercised at the end of the six month period will lapse automatically.
If an option holder ceases to be an employee of a member of the Group by reason of gross misconduct the option will lapse upon cessation of employment.
Change of control In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or voluntary winding up of the Company, unexercised options will become exercisable for a limited period but only to the extent of the savings plus interest or bonus that has accumulated in the related savings account up to the date of exercise.
Options which are not exercised during that period will lapse.
Alternatively, option holders may be given the opportunity to exchange their options for equivalent options over shares in the acquiring company.
Item 11: The Bovis Homes Group PLC 2007 Share Option Plan The Company proposes to establish the Bovis Homes Group PLC 2007 Share Option Plan the Share Option Plan as an incentivisation mechanism for middle management.
Executive directors of the Company will not participate.
Overview Under the terms of the Share Option Plan, employees of the Group may be granted options to acquire shares in the Company at a fixed exercise price.
The Company intends to apply for approval of the Share Option Plan by HMRC.
This will enable options granted up to a prescribed limit to benefit from favourable tax treatment.
Conditional on shareholders approving the Share Option Plan, it is intended that the first grant of options under the Plan will be made within 42 days following the AGM.
These options will normally become exercisable three years after their grant but only if and to the extent that the performance conditions, to which they are subject see below have been satisfied.
Grant period Options may be granted within the 42 days commencing on i the approval of the Share Option Plan by shareholders: ii the day immediately following the day on which the Company makes an announcement of its results for the last preceding financial year, half year or other period: or iii any day on which the Remuneration Committee resolves that exceptional circumstances exist which justify the grant of options.
Eligibility The Remuneration Committee may grant options to any employee of the Company or any other member of the Group.
Participants will be selected on a discretionary basis.
The Companys executive directors will not be eligible to participate in the Share Option Plan.
Option exercise price The option exercise price will not be less than the higher of i the middle market quotation for a share as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the dealing day immediately preceding the date of grant: and ii the nominal value of a share.
Individual limits The maximum market value of shares over which options may be granted to an employee in any calendar year as measured at the date of grant may not be greater than an amount equal to 100% of the employees annual basic salary at the date of grant.
The Remuneration Committee may grant options in excess of this limit in exceptional circumstances where the grant is required to recruit or retain a key employee.
Performance conditions The exercise of options will be subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition, which will be stated at the date of grant.
It is intended that for the initial grant of options the performance condition will relate to earnings per share growth of 4% above RPI.
There will be no re-testing of the performance condition.
For future grants, the Remuneration Committee may impose performance conditions as it considers appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee may vary the performance conditions during the performance period if it considers that the varied condition is no less demanding and no more difficult to satisfy.
Exercise of options Options will normally only become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the satisfaction of the performance condition, and remain exercisable until seven years after the date of grant.
Cessation of employment An option holder who ceases to be an employee of a member of the Group in certain circumstances for example due to injury, disability, redundancy, retirement on or after normal retirement age or following a sale of the employing company or transfer of the employing business out of the Group and otherwise at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee may, subject to the satisfaction of relevant performance conditions, exercise options within six months of the end of the relevant performance period.
Options will become exercisable pro-rata to the proportion of the performance period during which the option holder was in service.
The Remuneration Committee will have a discretion to allow options to be exercised over a greater or lesser number if it considers it appropriate If an option holder dies, his personal representative may exercise the option within twelve months of the date of death regardless or whether performance conditions are satisfied.
