The provision for the costs of decommissioning these production facilities and pipelines at the end of their economic lives has been estimated using existing technology, at current prices and discounted using a real discount rate of 2.0% 2005 2.0%.
These costs are expected to be incurred over the next 30 years.
While the provision is based on the best estimate of future costs and the economic lives of the facilities and pipelines, there is uncertainty regarding both the amount and timing of incurring these costs.
Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is probable and the amount reasonably determinable.
Generally, this coincides with commitment to a formal plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or closure of inactive sites.
The provision for environmental liabilities has been estimated using existing technology, at current prices and discounted using a real discount rate of 2.0% 2005 2.0%.
The majority of these costs are expected to be incurred over the next 10 years.
The extent and cost of future remediation programmes are inherently difficult to estimate.
They depend on the scale of any possible contamination, the timing and extent of corrective actions, and also the groups share of liability.
The group also holds provisions for litigation, expected rental shortfalls on surplus properties, and sundry other liabilities.
Included within thenew or increased provisions made for 2006 is an amount of $925 million 2005 $700 million in respect of the Texas City incident of which a total of $1,355 million has been disbursed to claimants $863 million in 2006 and $492 million in 2005.
To the extent that these liabilities are not expected to be settled within the next three years, the provisions are discounted using either a nominal discount rate of 4.5% 2005 4.5% or a real discount rate of 2.0% 2005 2.0%, as appropriate.
41 Pensions and other post-retirement benets Most group companies have pension plans, the forms and benets of which vary with conditions and practices in the countries concerned.
Pension benets may be provided through dened contribution plans money purchase schemes or dened benefit plans final salary and other types of schemes with committed pension payments.
For dened contribution plans, retirement benets are determined by the value of funds arising from contributions paid in respect of each employee.
For dened benefit plans, retirement benets are based on such factors as the employees pensionable salary and length of service.
Dened benefit plans may be externally funded or unfunded.
The assets of funded plans are generally held in separately administered trusts.
In particular, in the UK the primary pension arrangement is a funded final salary pension plan which remains open to new employees.
Retired employees draw the majority of their benefit as an annuity.
In the US, a range of retirement arrangements are provided.
These include a funded final salary pension plan for certain heritage employees and a cash balance arrangement for new hires.
Retired US employees typically take their pension benefit in the form of a lump sum payment.
US employees are also eligible to participate in a dened contribution 401k plan in which employee contributions are matched with company contributions.
Contributions to funded dened benefit plans are based on advice from independent actuaries using actuarial methods, the objective of which is to provide adequate funds to meet pension obligations as they fall due.
During 2006, contributions of $438 million 2005 $340 million and 2004 $249 million and $181 million 2005 $279 million and 2004 $30 million were made to the UK plans and US plans respectively.
In addition, contributions of $136 million 2005 $140 million and 2004 $116 million were made to other funded dened benefit plans.
The aggregate level of contributions in 2007 is expected to be approximately $750 million.
Certain group companies, principally in the US, provide post-retirement healthcare and life insurance benets to their retired employees and dependants.
The entitlement to these benets is usually based on the employee remaining in service until retirement age and completion of a minimum period of service.
The plans are funded to a limited extent.
The cost of providing pensions and other post-retirement benets is assessed annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The date of the most recent actuarial review was 31 December 2006.
152 41 Pensions and other post-retirement benets continued The material financial assumptions used for estimating the benefit obligations of the various plans are set out below.
The assumptions used to evaluate accrued pension and other post-retirement benets at 31 December in any year are used to determine pension and other post-retirement expense for the following year, that is, the assumptions at 31 December 2006 are used to determine the pension liabilities at that date and the pension cost for 2007.
Mortality assumptions reect best practicein the countries in which we provide pensions, and have been chosen with regard to the latest available published tables adjusted where appropriate to reect the experience of the group and an extrapolation of past longevity improvements into the future.
The groups obligation for other post-retirement benets reects the effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 the Act.
The provisions of the Act provide for a federal subsidy for plans that provide prescription drug benets and meet certain qualications, and alternatively would allow prescription drug plan sponsors to co-ordinate with the Medicare benefit.
BP reects the impact of the legislation by reducing its actuarially determined obligation for post-retirement benets and reducing the net cost for post-retirement benets.
For the year ended 31 December 2006 the reduction in net cost was $40 million 2005 $41 million.
Pension plan assets are generally held in trusts.
The primary objective of the trusts is to accumulate pools of assets sufficient to meet the obligation of the various plans.
The assets of the trusts are invested in a manner consistent with duciary obligations and principles that reect current practicesin portfolio management.
A significant proportion of the assets are held in equities, owing to a higher expected level of return over the long term with an acceptable level of risk.
In order to provide reasonable assurance that no single security or type of security has an unwarranted impact on the total portfolio, the investment portfolios are highly diversied.
The groups main pension funds do not directly invest in either securities or property real estate of the company or of any subsidiary.
Return on asset assumptions reect the groups expectations built up by asset class and by plan.
The groups expectation is derived from a combination of historical returns over the long term and the forecasts of market professionals.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 153 41 Pensions and other post-retirement benets continued The expected long-term rates of return and market values of the various categories of asset held by the significant dened benefit plans at 31 December are set out below.
b The charge for special termination benefits represents the increased liability arising as a result of early retirements occuring as part of a restructuring programme in the UK and Europe.
c The actual return on plan assets is made up of the sum of the expected return on plan assets and the actuarial gain on plan assets as disclosed above.
At 31 December 2006 reimbursement balances due from or to other companies in respect of pensions amounted to $479 million reimbursement assets 2005 $465 million and $71 million reimbursement liabilities 2005 $71 million.
These balances are not included as part of the pension liability, but are reected elsewhere in the group balance sheet.
b The actual return on plan assets is made up of the sum of the expected return on plan assets and the actuarial gain on plan assets as disclosed above.
