6 Disposals continued Exploration and Production The group divested interests in a number of oil and natural gas properties in all three years.
During 2006 the major transactions were disposals of our interests in the Gulf of Mexico Shelf, in the Shenzi discovery in the Gulf of Mexico, in the Statfjord oil and gas eld and in the Luva gas eld in the North Sea.
We also divested our interests in a number of onshore elds in South Louisiana, interests in elds in the North Sea, the Gulf of Suez and Venezuela, and part of an interest in Colombia.
During 2005, the major transaction was the sale of the groups interest in the Ormen Lange eld in Norway.
In addition, the group sold interests in oil and natural gas properties in Venezuela, Canada and the Gulf of Mexico.
In 2004, in the US, we sold 45% of our interest in Kings Peak in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico to Marubeni Oil & Gas, divested our interest in Swordsh, and additionally sold various properties, including our interest in the South Pass 60 property in the Gulf of Mexico Shelf.
In Canada, BP sold various assets in Alberta to Fairborne Energy.
In Indonesia, we disposed of our interest in the Kangean Production Sharing Contract and our participating interest in the Muriah Production Sharing Contract.
Rening and Marketing The churn of retail assets represents a significant element of the total in all three years.
In addition, in 2006, we disposed of our interests in Zhenhai Rening and Chemicals Company in China and in Eiffage, the French-based construction company.
We also exited the retail market in the Czech Republic and disposed of our interests in a number of pipelines.
During 2005, the group sold a number of regional retail networks in the US and in addition its retail network in Malaysia.
During 2004, major transactions included the sale of the Singapore renery, the divestment of the European speciality intermediate chemicals business and the Cushing and other pipeline interests in the US.
Gas, Power and Renewables During 2006, we disposed of our shareholding in Enagas, the Spanish gas transport grid operator.
In 2005, the group sold its interest in the Interconnector pipeline and a power plant at Great Yarmouth in the UK.
During 2004, the group sold its interest in two Canadian natural gas liquids plants.
Other businesses and corporate During 2006, the group disposed of miscellaneous non-core businesses and assets.
2005 includes the proceeds from the sale of Innovene.
The disposal of the groups investments in PetroChina and Sinopec were the major transactions in 2004.
In addition, the group sold its US speciality intermediate chemicals and fabrics and bres businesses.
Summarized financial information for the sale of businesses is shown below.
7 Segmental analysis The groups primary format for segment reporting is business segments and the secondary format is geographical segments.
The risks and returns of the groups operations are primarily determined by the nature of the different activities that the group engages in, rather than the geographical location of these operations.
This is reected by the groups organizational structure and the groups internal financial reporting systems.
BP has three reportable operating segments: Exploration and Production: Rening and Marketing: and Gas, Power and Renewables.
Exploration and Productions activities include oil and natural gas exploration and eld development and production, together with pipeline transportation and natural gas processing.
The activities of Rening and Marketing include oil supply and trading as well as rening and petrochemicals manufacturing and marketing.
Gas, Power and Renewables activities include marketing and trading of gas and power, marketing of liqueed natural gas, natural gas liquids and lowcarbon power generation through the Alternative Energy business.
The group is managed on an integrated basis.
Other businesses and corporate comprises Finance, the groups aluminum asset, interest income and costs relating to corporate activities worldwide.
The accounting policies of operating segments are the same as those described in Note 1.
Sales between segments are made at prices that approximate market prices, taking into account the volumes involved.
Segment revenue and segment result include transactions between business segments.
These transactions and any unrealized profits and losses are eliminated on consolidation.
The groups geographical segments are based on the location of the groups assets.
The UK and the US are significant countries of activity for the group: the other geographical segments are determined by geographical location.
Sales to external customers are based on the location of the seller, which in most circumstances is not materially different from the location of the customer.
Crude oil and LNG are commodities for which there is an international market and buyers and sellers can be widely separated geographically.
The UK segment includes the UK-based international activities of Rening and Marketing.
This adjustment has two offsetting elements: the net margin on crude refined by Innovene as substantially all crude for its refineries was supplied by BP and most of the refined products manufactured were taken by BP: and the margin on sales of feedstock from BPs US refineries to Innovenes manufacturing plants.
The profits attributable to individual segments are not affected by this adjustment.
This representation does not indicate the profits earned by continuing or Innovene operations, as if they were standalone entities, for past periods or likely to be earned in future periods.
