37 Derivative financial instruments UK GAAP continued The group calculates value at risk on all instruments that are held for trading purposes and that therefore give an exposure to market risk.
The valueat-risk model takes account of derivative financial instruments such as interest rate forward and futures contracts, swap agreements, options and swaptions: foreign exchange forward and futures contracts, swap agreements and options: and oil, natural gas and power price futures, swap agreements and options.
Financial assets and liabilities and physical crude oil and rened products that are treated as trading positions are also included in these calculations.
The value-at-risk calculation for oil, natural gas and power price exposure also includes cash-settled commodity contracts such as forward contracts.
The following table shows values at risk for trading activities.
It is considered that a more comprehensive representation of the groups oil, natural gas and power price trading activities is given by aggregating the gain or loss on such derivatives together with the gain or loss arising from the physical and paper trades to which they relate, representing the net result of the trading portfolio.
Included within Other loans repayable within one year above are US Industrial Revenue Municipal Bonds of $2,744 million 2005 $2,462 million with maturity periods ranging from 1 to 34 years.
They are classied as repayable within one year as the bondholders typically have the option to tender these bonds for repayment on interest reset dates.
Any bonds that are tendered are usually remarketed and BP has not experienced any significant repurchases.
BP considers these bonds to represent long-term funding when assessing the maturity prole of its finance debt and they are reected as such in the borrowings repayment schedule below.
Similar treatment is applied for loans associated with long-term gas supply contracts totalling $1,976 million 2005 $992 million that mature over 10 years.
At 31 December 2006, the group had substantial amounts of undrawn borrowing facilities available, including committed facilities of $4,700 million, of which $4,300 million are in place for at least 5 years 2005 $4,500 million all expiring in 2006.
These facilities are with a number of international banks and borrowings under them would be at pre-agreed rates.
Certain of these facilities support the groups commercial paper programme.
At 31 December 2006, the groups share of third-party finance debt of jointly controlled entities and associates was $4,942 million 2005 $3,266 million and $1,143 million 2005 $970 million respectively.
These amounts are not reected in the groups debt on the balance sheet.
We have in place a European Debt Issuance Programme DIP under which the group may raise $10 billion of debt for maturities of one month or longer.
At 31 December 2006 the amount drawn down against the DIP was $7,893 million.
In addition, the group has in place a US Shelf Registration under which it may raise $10 billion of debt with maturities of one month or longer.
At 31 December 2006 there had not been any draw-down.
The proportion of oating rate debt at 31 December 2006 was 73% of total finance debt outstanding.
Aside from debt issued in the US municipal bond markets, interest rates on oating rate debt denominated in US dollars are linked principally to the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate LIBOR, while rates on debt in other currencies are based on local market equivalents.
The group monitors interest rate risk using a process of sensitivity analysis.
Assuming no changes to the finance debt and related hedge balances, it is estimated that a change of 1% in the general level of interest rates on 1 January 2007 would change 2007 profit before tax by approximately $180 million.
