Business performance Exploration and Production Results $ million Focus BP employs a focused exploration 06 29,647 strategy in areas with the potential for 05 25,485 large oil and natural gas fields as new Strategy profit centres.
Within our portfolio of Build production with improving returns by: assets, we continue to develop our new Focusing on finding the largest fields, profit centres in which we have a distinctive concentrating our involvement in a position: Asia Pacific gas, Azerbaijan, limited number of the worlds most Algeria, Angola, Trinidad, deepwater Gulf prolific hydrocarbon basins.
We also manage Building leadership positions in the decline of our existing profit centres these areas.
in Alaska, Egypt, Latin America, Middle Managing the decline of existing East, North America gas and the North producing assets and divesting assets Sea.
We exercise rigorous quality through when they no longer compete in choice across our portfolio, investing in our portfolio.
Refining and Marketing Results $ million Focus We aim to improve the quality and 06 5,283 capability of our manufacturing portfolio.
05 4,394 Our marketing businesses, underpinned Strategy by world-class manufacturing, generate Continue to focus on advantaged customer value by providing quality refining locations.
Our retail strategy Operate in retail markets where supply provides differentiated fuel and advantage and distinctive offers capture convenience offers to some of the most market share and margin, underpinned attractive global markets.
Our lubricants by efficiency improvements.
brands offer customers benefits through Increase brand loyalty in lubricants.
technology and relationships, focusing Apply advantaged technology in A&A, on increasing brand and product loyalty.
building new capacity in Asia.
We build deep customer relationships Build strong strategic relationships and strategic partnerships in the in the business-to-business sector.
Gas, Power and Renewables Results $ million Focus In line with growing demand for cleaner 06 1,376 energy, BP is building large-scale positions 05 1,077 in growing markets for natural gas, gas Strategy liquids and low-carbon power.
We have Develop a leading low-carbon energy strong upstream gas assets near major business across the value chain.
markets, significant interests in gas Access cost-competitive supply.
pipelines, access to LNG import and Capture distinctive world-scale gas regasification capacity and we operate market positions by accessing key LNG shipping.
We are developing pieces of infrastructure.
integrated LNG supply chains for sales Expand gross margin by providing into liquid wholesale markets such as distinctive products and services the US and UK.
BP has a material natural to selected customer segments gas liquids NGLs processing and and optimizing the gas and power marketing business that is seeking to value chains.
28 The segments replacement cost profit before interest and tax of $29,647 million was Global locationS a record, representing an increase of 16% over 2005.
The result reflected higher oil realizations, partially offset by lower reported volumes and lower gas realizations, higher production taxes and higher costs reflecting the impacts of sector-specific inflation and increased integrity spend and revenue investments.
The result included net gains on sales of assets of around $2 billion and fair value gains on embedded derivatives of $515 million.
BPs share of the TNK-BP result was higher, primarily reflecting higher disposal gains.
Capital expenditure was $13.1 billion in 2006 and is expected to be around $12.9 billion in 2007.
Production was 3,926 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day in 2006.
After adjusting for the impact of divestments and the impact of lower entitlements in our production-sharing agreements, production was flat compared with the previous year.
We have decided to move to the SEC basis of reserves reporting to simplify disclosures and allow for easier comparison with competitors who report only on an We employ a focused exploration strategy SEC basis.
Our proved reserves replacement ratio, using SEC reserves, was 113% on in areas with the potential for large oil and a combined basis of subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities, excluding acquisitions natural gas fields as new profit centres.
Replacement cost profit before interest and tax for the segment was $5,283 million, Global covERaGE compared with $4,394 million in 2005.
The segments result reflects a number of improvements on a year ago, including the progressive recommissioning of our Texas City refinery and improvements resulting from the efficiency programmes that began in 2005, together with lower associated rationalization costs and a positive impact from fair value accounting, compared with an adverse effect in 2005.
Refining volumes were lower in 2006 owing to the impact of reduced availability, due largely to the partial production during the year at the Texas City refinery and increased turnarounds.
Refinery throughputs for 2006 were 2,198 thousand barrels per day mb d, compared with 2,399mb d in 2005.
Retail marketing margins were stronger than in 2005, partially offset by a reduction in margins from other marketing businesses.
Marketing sales were 3,872mb d in 2006, compared with 3,942mb d the previous year.
During 2006, we increased our investment in safety and operational integrity.
We continued to upgrade our refining portfolio, including plans for a $3-billion investment at We operate in markets where supply our Whiting refinery.
In marketing, we grew margin through distinctive brand offers such advantage and distinctive offers capture market share and margin.
as Ultimate fuels, Castrol Edge and the Marks & Spencer offer in our UK retail network.
The segments replacement cost profit before interest and tax was $1,376 million, Global locationS compared with $1,077 million in 2005.
The result includes a net gain of $181 million 2005 $20 million charge, which primarily comprises net disposal gains of $193 million, net fair value gains on embedded derivatives of $88 million and an impairment charge of $100 million.
These factors contributed to the higher full-year result compared with 2005.
The result also reflected higher contributions from the operating businesses, partially offset by higher IFRS fair value accounting charges.
The volumes of gas supplied into liquefaction plants rose by 21%.
In LNG, we began operations at Chinas first LNG import and regasification terminal in Guangdong and continued to optimize equity and third-party supplies to key markets.
In NGLs, we entered into a long-term supply contract for access to additional NGLs in the US and secured access to a liquefied petroleum gas terminal in Italy.
In BP Alternative Energy, we doubled solar production capacity, started operations at K-Powers gas-fired power plant in South Korea, advanced development of the worlds We are building large-scale positions leading commercial hydrogen power plant, acquired several large US wind developers in growing markets for natural gas, and concluded a wind turbine supply agreement.
gas liquids and low-carbon power.
