10 Contingent liabilities The parent company has issued guarantees under which amounts outstanding at 31 December 2006 were $20,458 million 2005 $16,878 million and 2004 $21,106 million, including $20,402 million 2005 $16,822 million and 2004 $21,050 million in respect of borrowings by its subsidiary undertakings and $56 million 2005 $56 million and 2004 $56 million in respect of liabilities of other third parties.
US employees are granted American depositary shares ADSs or options over the companys ADSs one ADS is equivalent to six ordinary shares.
The share-based payment plans that existed during the year are detailed below.
All plans are ongoing unless otherwise stated.
Plans for executive directors Executive Directors Incentive Plan EDIP share element 2005 onwards An equity-settled incentive share plan for executive directors driven by one performance measure over a three-year performance period.
The award of shares is determined by comparing BPs total shareholder return TSR against the other oil majors.
In addition, for the group chief executive, 27% of the grant is based on long-term leadership LTL measures.
After the performance period, the shares which vest net of tax are then subject to a three-year retention period.
The directors remuneration report on pages 68-75 includes full details of this plan.
Executive Directors Incentive Plan EDIP share element pre-2005 An equity-settled incentive share plan for executive directors driven by three performance measures over a three-year performance period.
The primary measure is BPs shareholder return against the market SHRAM versus that of the companies within the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index.
This accounts for nearly two-thirds of the potential total award, with the remainder being assessed on BPs relative return on average capital employed ROACE and earnings per share EPS growth compared with the other oil majors.
After the performance period, the shares that vest net of tax are then subject to a three-year retention period.
For 2005 and subsequent years, the share element of EDIP was amended as described above.
Executive Directors Incentive Plan EDIP share option element pre-2005 An equity-settled share option plan for executive directors that permits options to be granted at an exercise price no lower than the market price of a share on the date that the option is granted.
Options vest over three years one-third each after one, two and three years respectively and must be exercised within seven years of the date of grant.
From 2005 onwards the remuneration committees policy is not to make further grants of share options to executive directors.
Plans for senior employees Medium Term Performance Plan MTPP 2005 onwards An equity-settled incentive share plan for senior employees driven by two performance measures over a three-year performance period.
The award of shares is determined by comparing BPs TSR against the other oil majors and, additionally, by comparing free cash ow FCF against a threshold established for the period.
For a small group of particularly senior employees, only the TSR measure is applicable in determining the award.
The number of shares awarded is increased to take account of the net dividends that would have been received during the performance period, assuming that such dividends had been reinvested.
With regard to leaver provisions, the general rule is that leaving employment during the performance period will preclude an award of shares.
However, special arrangements apply where the participant leaves for a qualifying reason and employment ceases after completion of the first year of the performance period.
Long Term Performance Plan LTPP pre-2005 An equity-settled incentive share plan for senior employees driven by three performance measures over a three-year performance period.
The primary measure is BPs SHRAM versus that of the companies within the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index.
This accounts for nearly two-thirds of the potential total award, with the remainder being assessed on BPs relative ROACE and EPS growth compared with the other oil majors.
Shares are awarded at the end of the performance period and are then subject to a three-year restriction period.
With regard to leaver provisions, the general rule is that leaving during the performance period will preclude an award of shares.
This plan was replaced by the MTPP for 2005 onwards.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DAB An equity-settled restricted share plan for senior employees.
The award value is equal to 50% of the annual cash bonus awarded for the preceding performance year the performance period.
The shares are restricted for a period of three years the restriction period.
Shares accrue dividends during the restriction period and these are reinvested.
With regard to leaver provisions, if a participant ceases to be employed by BP prior to the end of the performance period, then the general rule is that this will preclude an award of shares.
However, special arrangements apply where the participant leaves for a qualifying reason.
Similarly, if a participant ceases to be employed by BP prior to the end of the restriction period, the general rule is that the restricted shares will be forfeited.
Special arrangements apply where the participant leaves for a qualifying reason.
