Four steps into the future There are two stories of BPs performance in 2006.
One is about financial performance, major project delivery and expanded opportunity in alternative forms of energy.
The other is about addressing the well-publicized challenges in safety and execution.
On both fronts, we have made good progress compared with a year ago.
Our vision has not changed.
And our capacity to execute is gaining strength with the actions we are taking.
BP Annual Review 2006 G etting the e ssentials right Safety has always been one of our core priorities.
When the safety of people and of BP operations is at stake, actions matter far more than words.
We continued to make significant investment and took numerous actions to improve the three dimensions of safety personal safety, process safety and the environment and the monitoring of all our operations in 2006.
Between 2007 and 2010, we will spend $7 billion to upgrade all aspects of safety at our US refineries and to replace infrastructure in Alaska.
This includes a step-up in the scale and pace of spending at our US refineries from $1.2 billion in 2005 to $1.7 billion a year from 2007 to 2010.
In January 2007, an independent safety review panel, chaired by former US Secretary of State James A Baker, III, published a candid and thorough report into process safety management at our US refineries.
We have committed to implement the 10 recommendations from this report as part of our continuing effort to strengthen and standardize process safety management.
We will also share the lessons both across BP and with the industry as a whole.
Many of the panels recommendations are consistent with the findings of our own internal reviews.
We have already taken a number of actions to strengthen our process safety management system.
These include the formation of an executive team to oversee process safety efforts, an ambitious four-year programme of investment in safety and operational integrity across the group and the formation of an advisory board of experts to assist and advise BP America Inc. on the monitoring of our US operations.
Specific objectives developed from other independent reports on the Texas City incident alone include 600 recommendations and more than 1,000 separate actions, including 2 major ones.
Worldwide, we have conducted further accident risk assessments of all our major operations and have begun implementation of a revised integrity management standard that will apply to every significant asset.
In addition, we are ensuring that we have the right level of competency and capability in our operating workforce.
In the same way that BP first asserted its point of view on climate change nearly a decade ago, we intend to take a leadership position in process safety in the years to come.
10 10 Recommissioning Texas City When the Texas City refinery was shut down in September 2005 in anticipation of Hurricane Rita, its 27-mile-long steam system went cold for the first time since start-up more than 40 years ago.
During this shutdown, a significant portion of the facility was refurbished or received new equipment.
Comprehensive recommissioning began in March 2006, guided by a plan that precisely defined methods, behaviours and accountabilities to enhance efficiency and safety.
So far, refurbishment has involved more than 15 million worker hours and included restart of the steam system, replacement of 2,500 major valves, renovation of commissioned units and peer safety review for the restart of every major piece of equipment.
Texas City continues to build its output, reaching an average of 24, 000 barrels per day b d throughput in the fourth quarter of 2006.
We expect crude throughputs to be approximately 400,000b d by the end of 2007.
BP Annual Review 2006 11 11 Assuring pipeline integrity In August, following the discovery of unexpected corrosion and a spill from a transit line in Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, BP began an orderly shutdown of the eastern half of the field as a precautionary move.
In September, following a comprehensive inspection programme and the installation of bypasses, we determined that the eastern part of the field could be restarted for the purpose of in-line inspection using smart pipeline inspection tools called pigs.
This inspection was completed and the in-service transit lines were found to be in acceptable condition.
Prudhoe Bay production is now fully restored to more than 400,000 barrels of oil and natural gas liquids per day.
We have developed a more frequent schedule of routine maintenance pigging and begun a systematic programme to replace 16 miles of oil transit lines in support of our long-term plans for production from the field.
12 BP Annual Review 2006 12 Reaffirming our values As a leading supply and trading organization in the global energy market, BP has a responsibility to act fairly and honestly in all its dealings.
Each day, we make decisions that, over the course of a year, generate millions of relatively small transactions, which enable energy supplies to reach customers in the most efficient manner.
Each decision is made within a control and compliance framework that seeks to drive the right behaviours and outcomes for the group, its customers and its shareholders, in line with BPs code of conduct.
This framework is set by clear policies and standards and held up to rigorous internal and external scrutiny.
If behaviours and outcomes fall short of those standards, then we act decisively to learn and to improve.
Protecting the flow of supply Maintaining supply to customers is an essential skill for integrated oil and gas companies.
BPs supply and trading function has an excellent record of keeping products flowing to customers and our own operations.
This record was tested several times during 2006 and proved its value.
After a fire at a non-BP oil storage complex in December 2005, BP played a leading role in restoring the supply of aviation fuel to the UKs Heathrow and Gatwick airports.
Working with contractors, we increased supply routes to the airports and built a system of road-transported supply.
By the summer of 2006, we had recovered supplies to Heathrow to more than 0%, while maintaining 100% supply to Gatwick.
Then in August, when our Prudhoe Bay field was partially shut down, our supply and trading specialists averted a major impact on US markets by securing multiple tanker cargoes of imported crude oil around 3.5 million barrels, all delivered at short notice.
BP Annual Review 2006 13 13 E xecuting more e ffectively Without the discipline to execute, strategy is merely a plan.
At BP, we are strengthening the quality of our operational execution and delivering projects through thoughtful simplification in an ever more complex business environment.
This level of effectiveness is not an option but an imperative, because effective execution is what gives our business sustainable momentum.
BPs executional progress during 2006 was illustrated by the effective delivery of challenging large-scale projects.
The 1,768-kilometre Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan BTC pipeline, from Baku in Azerbaijan through Georgia to Ceyhan on the Turkish Mediterranean coast, represents one of the great engineering projects of our era.
Having delivered its first oil in June 2006, it is expected to transport 750,000 barrels of oil per day from the giant  ACG development to world markets by the end of 2007.
This will be the largest new non-OPEC source of oil supply to be brought on stream in 15 years.
With our partners, we began operations at Chinas first LNG import and regasification terminal at Shenzhen in Guangdong province.
The project, a key step forward in diversifying the energy mix in this important and rapidly growing market, was completed ahead of schedule and on budget.
Throughout refining and marketing, a major initiative is building long-term capability for continuous improvement and investing in a systematic approach to improve operational performance.
This programme includes not only small projects driving day-to-day business performance but also major investments in process redesign, underpinned by significant new technology and systems.
A portfolio of 250 projects is under way, with potential to generate some $600 million in operating efficiencies in the medium term.
In addition to driving efficiencies, the programme will improve customer experiences in our commercial and retail businesses.
14 14 Enhancing oil and gas recovery When the scale of BPs hydrocarbon assets is combined with its recovery expertise, the result is more potential resources.
For example, high-quality seismic data, combined with high-temperature, highpressure well technologies, is enabling us to explore for resources at depths of more than 20,000 feet in an Oklahoma basin that has been producing for 90 years.
Innovative fracturing techniques at our Noel gas field in Canadas Rocky Mountains have increased well production rates 20-fold.
In deepwater locations, advances in proprietary subsalt seismic imaging allow us to pinpoint the placement of wells within a reservoir a critical success factor when a deepwater well can cost up to $100 million.
In Alaska, a pentalateral well accesses oil from five separate reservoir penetrations drilled from one surface location, producing many times more than a single penetration.
We also continue to progress other recovery-enhancing technologies such as low-salinity water-flooding.
BP Annual Review 2006 15 15 Bringing energy diversity to China BP has been an active participant in China for more than 30 years.
Another significant milestone was achieved in this rapidly developing energy market during 2006 with the start of LNG operations at Shenzhen in Guangdong province.
BP, with a 30% interest, is the sole foreign participant in Guangdong Dapeng LNG Company, which developed and now operates the project.
The import terminal received its first cargo of LNG in May under a 25-year contract with the North West Shelf venture in Australia, in which BP is also a partner, one month ahead of schedule.
Guangdong Dapeng LNG Company is now transmitting natural gas via a 385-kilometre pipeline system, which it also built and operates, to customers in Guangdong province and Hong Kong, providing a low-carbon fuel option for the generation of electricity.
16 16 Delivering complex world-scale projects During 2006, nine new large-scale upstream developments came on stream for BP, each of which benefited from knowledge shared among separate project teams.
For example, in Azerbaijan, our East Azeri platform achieved first oil export ahead of schedule.
The Sangachal oil and gas processing terminal, one of the worlds largest, was commissioned at the Azerbaijan end of the BTC pipeline and the Ceyhan oil export terminal was commissioned at the Turkish end of the same pipeline.
Completion of these projects allowed the first lifting of ACG crude via the BTC pipeline to take place in June.
To achieve this milestone event, huge project delivery challenges were overcome, including building fabrication yards, upgrading local marine vessels for pipe-laying and offshore installation, recruiting and training a local workforce and consulting local communities.
Developing resources more efficiently In exploration and production, investing in future energy resources became a more expensive proposition during 2006.
We saw cost inflation in both capital goods and operating costs, which is clearly linked to rising petroleum industry demand for equipment and services.
As an example, BPs maximum rate for ultra-deepwater drilling rigs has increased from around $200,000 a day in 2004 to around $500,000 a day today.
We are continuing to offset some cost inflation by managing our supply chain and through the use of technology.
For instance, in 2005, our North America gas business contracted for 67 rig-years of activity at around 13% below todays market rate.
Worldwide, the strength and quality of our positions in some of the most prolific hydrocarbon basins allow us to apply technology and economies of scale to reduce risk, enhance recovery and make our resources more valuable.
BP Annual Review 2006 17 17 I nvesting for the long term BPs strategy aims to balance two priorities: investing for the future while generating returns for our shareholders today.
Discipline in the execution of this strategy guides our every step, from the way we manage capital, divest non-core assets and plan and operate our businesses to how we allocate additional free cash flow in the current oil price environment.
In particular, this strategy has resulted in a distinctive exploration and production portfolio.
The promise of BPs new profit centres is now being realized, with major projects coming on stream in Azerbaijan, Angola, Algeria and Trinidad & Tobago.
Looking to 2010 and beyond, we have a deep slate of major projects that continue to progress into development.
In 2006, we took the final investment decision and moved seven major projects into development and conducted active appraisal programmes on a further 30 future developments.
We continue to see significant potential in our portfolio and are confident our track record of exploration success will continue.
One promising area is Russia, where we have had a presence for nearly a decade.
During the past three years, BP has invested about $10 billion in Russia, including through partnerships such as TNK-BP, Slavneft, the Rosneft IPO and Sakhalin.
We have also reinvested a further $3.2 billion through our share of TNK-BP capital expenditure.
For TNK-BP, these investments have increased gross production from 1.39 million barrels of oil equivalent per day in 2003 to 1.94 million barrels today, an average of almost 10% annual growth.
While we pursue new projects, we do so with capital discipline.
At the same time, we continue to strengthen our portfolio by divesting non-core or uncompetitive assets.
We have pursued this strategy successfully for many years.
While divesting these non-core or uncompetitive assets improves the quality of the portfolio, contributes cash for redistribution and provides immediate profit, it also reduces our reported production volume see chart.
18 18 Benefiting from our established positions Energy prices have risen dramatically since the end of the past decade, resulting in intense levels of competition for access to new resources.
This has made established positions extremely valuable in terms of discovered and yet-to-find resources.
Competitive advantage rests with companies that have well-established positions, allowing them to exploit technology and economies of scale to the maximum extent.
During the past 15 years, BP has built a portfolio of 13 profit centres that are of material size, such as the North Sea and North America gas.
Through these positions, we can add new reserves by applying technology to access more barrels of oil and gas and deliver more resources to the market.
Managing our mboed producTion porTfolio mboe d 5,000 BPs strategy of high-grading its portfolio of production assets has resulted in the 4,000 divestment of reserves of around 2 billion 3,000 barrels of oil equivalent between 2001 and 2006.
This realized $14.1 billion of 2,000 gross proceeds.
1,000 0 01 02 03 04 05 06 Disposals Portfolio at 31 December 2006 BP Annual Review 2006 19 19 reconfiguring to meet demand BP is investing $3 billion in its Whiting refinery in Indiana, US, to convert existing light crude processing capability into mostly heavy crude oil from Canada.
This has the potential to increase the diversity and security of oil supplies and give the refinery a more cost-effective feedstock for products used by US Midwest consumers.
The four-year project is expected to increase Whitings production of motor fuels by about 1.7 million additional gallons of gasoline and diesel per day enough to supply around 6 million vehicles a year.
The key ingredient is a supply of heavy crude oil from oil sand basins in Alberta, Canada.
This resource is located in a politically stable basin of growing oil production an important consideration for US energy supply and security and it builds on the economic partnership between the two countries.
growing whiTing rEfinEry capaciTy billion gallons of motor fuel per year 11 5.2 projected 06 4.5 20 20 capturing knowledge from Thunder horse at its sanction in 2001, the Thunder horse platform in the gulf of Mexico was viewed as an essential step forward for the industry in deepwater developments, going to deeper reservoirs at higher pressures and temperatures than ever before.
Despite our recent decision to delay start-up to replace some of the subsea equipment, Thunder Horse continues to overcome challenges and to push several areas of technology to new limits.
The learning we have gained from the project is already benefiting not only BPs future deepwater projects but also the industry as a whole.
BP Annual Review 2006 21 21 C ontributing to the future of energy BP operates in a world in which increasing demand for energy security and the potential risks of climate change create significant and often intricately connected challenges.
We accept those challenges with enthusiasm.
Our goal is to apply advances in science and engineering to make the worlds relationship with energy more diverse, more responsible and more sustainable.
For BP, contributing to the future of energy means pursuing proved technologies that make our planets hydrocarbon assets last longer, enable more efficient production with less environmental impact and also help to strengthen the communities from which they are sourced.
During 2006, we have delivered another 1.2 million tonnes of greenhouse gas reductions through various projects in our operations.
Contributing to the future of energy also means investing in and applying newer, rapidly evolving, technologies to give society new sources of energy that are both low-carbon and local.
Our focus is on energy for the power sector, which currently generates around 40% of the worlds man-made emissions of carbon dioxide.
We established BP Alternative Energy in November 2005, with a concentration on low-carbon power generation.
At the time, public curiosity centred on whether a predominantly oil and gas company could make low-carbon power a profitable business.
During 2006, we proved that it could.
Not only did the business generate a profit, but it dramatically expanded its project portfolio.
It is on track to deliver an ambitious agenda for its first three years: a threefold increase in manufacturing capacity of solar photovoltaic panels: growth of wind power production to 450 megawatts MW : advancing development of the worlds leading commercial hydrogen power plant: constructing gas co-generation power plants totalling more than 700MW: and reducing projected carbon dioxide emissions as a consequence.
In 2006, BP announced plans to invest $500 million over the next 10 years to establish the BP Energy Biosciences Institute, a dedicated bioscience laboratory researching new fuels for transportation.
In addition to the many actions in our own business activities, we continue to engage in informed external dialogue to influence policy, regulation and research.
22 BP Annual Review 2006 22 Creating production lines around the world For the immediate future, the world will continue to make extensive use of fossil fuels.
But, as prices have risen, the cost of production has also escalated.
Against this background, efficiency is crucial.
In Azerbaijan, Trinidad & Tobago, Angola and Egypt, BP is pursuing a systematic approach to improve the efficiency of production facilities by designing one and building many.
In Azerbaijan, this standardized programme allowed us to deliver Central Azeri more than one month early, West Azeri three months early and East Azeri almost four months ahead of plan.
Using a production line approach meant the last deck was built seven months faster than the first.
CONSTRUCTION TIME months Planned 32 31 28 Actual 30.5 28 24 Central Azeri West Azeri East Azeri This approach has been transferred to Trinidad & Tobago for the construction of the Cannonball, Mango and Cashima platforms pictured below.
BP Annual Review 2006 23 23 Extending BP Ultimates global reach EXPANDING THE ULTIMATE OFFER number of countries 06 15 BP Ultimate, our premium automotive 05 13 fuel that delivers improved engine 04 9 performance and reduces pollution, 03 3 was introduced to two more key markets in 2006.
Ultimate is now available at selected service stations in South Africa and Russia, raising the number of countries in which the enhanced fuel is marketed to 15.
First offered to UK motorists in 2003, Ultimate significantly reduces key environmental pollutants.
In Russia, the Ultimate launch supports the commitment of our TNK-BP joint venture to reinforce its retail presence by leading the development of premium-quality fuels.
24 24 Reaching milestones in alternative energies BP continues to search for new business opportunities, as demonstrated by our investments and ventures in low-carbon power and biofuels.
Already a leading player in the global biofuels market, we are investing $500 million over the next decade to create the worlds first integrated research centre dedicated to applying biotechnology to the energy industry.
On 1 February 2007, we announced that we had selected the University of California, Berkeley, and its partners the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory for the research programme.
A new collaboration with DuPont has also been created to develop, produce and market advanced biofuels for transportation.
In hydrogen power, we are pursuing a new strategic relationship with General Electric to accelerate the development of the technology and deployment of the concept.
In gas-fired power, commercial operations began at K-Power, our 1.1 gigawatt combined cycle gas turbine project with SK Corporation in South Korea, currently the most efficient gas-fired power station developed there, which was delivered on time, under budget and with no recordable safety incidents.
Growing our wind power portfolio During 2006, Clipper Windpower and BP Alternative Energy entered into a strategic alliance for a long-term turbine supply agreement for up to 2,250MW of turbines and the joint development of five of Clippers wind energy projects in the US.
We also acquired Greenlight Energy, Inc. whose large development portfolio furthers our plans to build a leading wind power generation business in the US, and Orion Energy, LLC, a leading independent developer of large-scale wind energy projects, also in the US.
These alliances moved BP from being a niche player in wind power to the forefront of the worlds wind power developers.
We now have a land bank of development projects with a potential total generating capacity of some 15,000MW, one of the largest US wind power portfolios.
