53 US GAAP reconciliation continued Income taxes In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No.
48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No.
Interpretation 48 claries the accounting for uncertainty with regard to income taxes recognized in an entitys financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109 and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
Interpretation 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classication, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition.
The group will adopt Interpretation 48 with effect from 1 January 2007.
Adoption of Interpretation 48 is not expected to have a significant effect on the groups profit as adjusted to accord with US GAAP, or on BP shareholders equity as adjusted to accord with US GAAP.
Fair value measurements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No.
SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.
SFAS 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements.
SFAS 157 is effective for accounting periods beginning after 15 November 2007.
The group has not yet completed its evaluation of the impact of adopting SFAS 157 on the groups profit as adjusted to accord with US GAAP, or on BP shareholders equity as adjusted to accord with US GAAP.
Fair value option In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No.
159 The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No.
SFAS 159 permits an entity, at specified election dates, to choose to measure certain financial instruments and other items at fair value.
The objective of SFAS 159 is to provide entities with the opportunity to mitigate volatility in reported earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently, without having to apply complex hedge accounting provisions.
SFAS 159 is effective for accounting periods beginning after 15 November 2007.
The group has not yet completed its evaluation of the impact of adopting SFAS 159 on the groups profit as adjusted to accord with US GAAP, or on BP shareholders equity as adjusted to accord with US GAAP.
Audit fees are included in the income statement within distribution and administration expenses.
Other further assurance services include $nil 2005 $4 million and 2004 $3 million in respect of advice on accounting, auditing and financial reporting matters: $nil 2005 $16 million and 2004 $1 million in respect of internal accounting and risk management control reviews: $5 million 2005 $3 million and 2004 $3 million in respect of non-statutory audits and $nil 2005 $nil and 2004 $2 million in respect of project assurance and advice on business and accounting process improvement.
The tax compliance services relate to income tax and indirect tax compliance and employee tax services.
The audit committee has established pre-approval policies and procedures for the engagement of Ernst & Young to render audit and certain assurance and tax services.
The audit fees payable to Ernst & Young are reviewed by the audit committee in the context of other global companies for cost-effectiveness.
Ernst & Young performed further assurance and tax services that were not prohibited by regulatory or other professional requirements and were pre-approved by the committee.
Ernst & Young is engaged for these services when its expertise and experience of BP are important.
Most of this work is of an audit nature.
Tax services were awarded either through a full competitive tender process or following an assessment of the expertise of Ernst & Young compared to that of other potential service providers.
These services are for a xed term.
Fees paid to major rms of accountants other than Ernst & Young for other services amount to $52 million 2005 $151 million and 2004 $82 million.
