The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Given the nature of the groups activities, information on the fair value of an asset is usually difficult to obtain unless negotiations with potential purchasers are taking place.
Consequently, unless indicated otherwise, the recoverable amount used in assessing the impairment charges described below is value in use.
The group generally estimates value in use using a discounted cash ow model.
The future cash ows are usually adjusted for risks specic to the asset and discounted using a pretax discount rate of 10% 2005 10% and 2004 9%.
This discount rate is derived from the groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital.
A different pre-tax discount rate is used where the tax rate applicable to the asset is signicantly different from the average corporate tax rate applicable to the group as a whole.
Exploration and Production During 2006, Exploration and Production recognized a net gain on impairment.
The main element was a $340 million credit for reversals of previously booked impairments relating to the UK North Sea, US Lower 48 and China.
These reversals resulted from a positive change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the impairment losses were recognised.
This was partially offset by impairment losses totalling $137 million.
The major element was a charge of $109 million against intangible assets relating to properties in Alaska.
The trigger for the impairment test was the decision of the Alaska Department of Natural Resources to terminate the Point Thompson Unit Agreement.
We are defending our right through the appeal process.
The remaining $28 million relates to other individually insignicant impairments, the impairment tests for which were triggered by downward reserves revisions and increased tax burden.
During 2005, Exploration and Production recognized total charges of $266 million for impairment in respect of producing oil and gas properties.
The major element of this was a charge of $226 million relating to elds in the Shelf and Coastal areas of the Gulf of Mexico.
The triggers for the impairment tests were primarily the effect of Hurricane Rita, which extensively damaged certain offshore and onshore production facilities, leading to repair costs and higher estimates of the eventual cost of decommissioning the production facilities and, in addition, reduced estimates of the quantities of hydrocarbons recoverable from some of these elds.
The recoverable amount was based on managements estimate of fair value less costs to sell consistent with recent transactions in the area.
The remainder related to elds in the UK North Sea, which were tested for impairment following a review of the economic performance of these assets.
During 2004, as a result of impairment triggers, reviews were conducted which resulted in impairment charges of $83 million in respect of Kings Peak in the Gulf of Mexico, $20 million in respect of two elds in the Gulf of Mexico Shelf Matagorda Island area and $184 million in respect of various US onshore elds.
A charge of $88 million was reected in respect of a gas processing plant in the US and a charge of $60 million following the blow-out of the Temsah platform in Egypt.
In addition, following the lapse of the sale agreement for oil and gas properties in Venezuela, $31 million of the previously booked impairment charge was released.
Rening and Marketing During 2006, certain assets in our Retail and Aromatics and Acetyls businesses were written down to fair value less costs to sell.
During 2005, certain retail assets were written down to fair value less costs to sell.
With the formation of Olens and Derivatives at the end of 2004 certain agreements and assets were restructured to reect the arms-length relationship that would exist in the future.
This resulted in an impairment of the petrochemical facilities at Hull, UK.
Gas, Power and Renewables The impairment charge for 2006 relates to certain North American pipeline assets.
The trigger for impairment testing was the reduction in future pipeline tariff revenues and increased on-going operational costs.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 123
