4 Acquisitions Acquisitions in 2006 BP made a number of minor acquisitions in 2006 for a total consideration of $256 million.
All these business combinations were in the Gas, Power and Renewables segment and were accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
Fair value adjustments were made to the acquired assets and liabilities and goodwill of $64 million arose on these acquisitions.
Acquisitions in 2005 BP made a number of minor acquisitions in 2005 for a total consideration of $84 million.
All these business combinations were accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
No significant fair value adjustments were made to the acquired assets and liabilities.
Goodwill of $27 million arose on these acquisitions.
There was also additional goodwill on the Solvay acquisition of $59 million see below.
Acquisitions in 2004 On 2 November 2004, Solvay exercised its option to sell its interests in BP Solvay Polyethylene Europe and BP Solvay Polyethylene North America to BP.
Solvay held 50% of BP Solvay Polyethylene Europe and 51% of BP Solvay Polyethylene North America.
On completion, the two entities, which manufacture and market high-density polyethylene, became wholly owned subsidiaries of BP.
The total consideration for the acquisition was $1,391 million, subject to final closing adjustments.
There were closing adjustments and selling costs in 2005 amounting to $59 million.
These created additional goodwill of $59 million, which was written off.
Other minor acquisitions were made for a total consideration of $14 million.
All business combinations have been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
The fair value of the property, plant and equipment was estimated by determining the net present value of future cash ows.
No significant adjustments were made to the other assets and liabilities acquired.
The assets and liabilities acquired as part of the 2004 acquisitions are shown in aggregate in the table below.
In addition, given the integrated nature of the operations, the bitumen business in the UK is also included with the divestment, along with the Coryton bulk terminal together the Coryton disposal group.
At 31 December 2006, negotiations for the sale were in progress and the assets and associated liabilities were classied as a disposal group held for sale.
No impairment loss was recognized at the time of reclassication of the Coryton disposal group as held for sale nor at 31 December 2006.
The major classes of assets and liabilities of the Coryton disposal group, reported within the Rening and Marketing segment, classied as held for sale at 31 December 2006 are set out below.
On disposal such foreign exchange differences are recycled to the income statement.
On 1 February 2007, it was agreed to sell the Coryton disposal group, subject to required regulatory approval, to Petroplus Holdings AG, an independent rener and wholesaler of petroleum products headquartered in Zug, Switzerland, for a sale price of $1.4 billion, plus hydrocarbons to be valued at closing.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 111
