55 Summarized financial information on jointly controlled entities and associates A summarized statement of income and assets and liabilities based on latest information available, with respect to the groups equity-accounted jointly controlled entities and associates, is set out below.
These gures represent 100% of the income statements and balance sheets of the equity-accounted entities, not BPs ownership interest.
b Deducted in the balance sheet from the assets to which they apply.
Net proved reserves of crude oil exclude production royalties due to others, whether royalty is payable in cash or in kind.
b Excludes NGLs from processing plants in which an interest is held of 55 thousand barrels a day.
c Includes 779 million barrels of NGLs.
Also includes 23 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
d Includes 28 million barrels of NGLs.
Also includes 179 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 6.29% minority interest in TNK-BP.
e Proved reserves in the Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska include an estimated 81 million barrels upon which a net profits royalty will be payable over the life of the field under the terms of the BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust.
b Includes 178 billion cubic feet of natural gas consumed in operations, 147 billion cubic feet in subsidiaries, 31 billion cubic feet in equity-accounted entities and excludes 8.3 billion cubic feet of produced non-hydrocarbon components which meet regulatory requirements for sales.
c Includes 3,537 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
d Includes 99 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 7.77% minority interest in TNK-BP.
b Excludes NGLs from processing plants in which an interest is held of 58 thousand barrels a day.
c Includes 818 million barrels of NGLs.
Also includes 29 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
d Includes 33 million barrels of NGLs.
Also includes 95 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 4.47% minority interest in TNK-BP.
e Proved reserves in the Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska include an estimated 85 million barrels upon which a net profits royalty will be payable over the life of the field under the terms of the BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust.
b Includes 174 billion cubic feet of natural gas consumed in operations, 147 billion cubic feet in subsidiaries and 27 billion cubic feet in equity-accounted entities.
c Includes 3,812 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
d Includes 57 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 4.47% minority interest in TNK-BP.
c Includes 724 million barrels of NGLs.
Also includes 40 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
d Includes 27 million barrels of NGLs.
Also includes 127 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 5.9% minority interest in TNK-BP.
e Proved reserves in the Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska include an estimated 77 million barrels upon which a net profits royalty will be payable over the life of the field under the terms of the BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust.
b Includes 190 billion cubic feet of natural gas consumed in operations, 165 billion cubic feet in subsidiaries and 25 billion cubic feet in equity-accounted entities.
c Includes 4,064 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
d Includes 13 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 5.9% minority interest in TNK-BP.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 201 Supplementary information on oil and natural gas continued Standardized measure of discounted future net cash ows and changes therein relating to proved oil and gas reserves The following tables set out the standardized measures of discounted future net cash ows, and changes therein, relating to crude oil and natural gas production from the groups estimated proved reserves.
This information is prepared in compliance with the requirements of FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
69 Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities.
Future net cash ows have been prepared on the basis of certain assumptions which may or may not be realized.
These include the timing of future production, the estimation of crude oil and natural gas reserves and the application of year-end crude oil and natural gas prices and exchange rates.
Furthermore, both reserves estimates and production forecasts are subject to revision as further technical information becomes available and economic conditions change.
BP cautions against relying on the information presented because of the highly arbitrary nature of assumptions on which it is based and its lack of comparability with the historical cost information presented in the financial statements.
b Production costs, which include production taxes, and development costs relating to future production of proved reserves are based on year-end cost levels and assume continuation of existing economic conditions.
Future decommissioning costs are included.
c Taxation is computed using appropriate year-end statutory corporate income tax rates.
d Future net cash flows from oil and natural gas production are discounted at 10% regardless of the group assessment of the risk associated with its producing activities.
e Minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC amounted to $1,300 million at 31 December 2006 $2,700 million at 31 December 2005 and $1,600 million at 31 December 2004. f Net changes in prices and production costs includes the effect of exchange rate movements.
202 Supplementary information on oil and natural gas continued Equity-accounted entities In addition, at 31 December 2006 the groups share of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash ows of equity-accounted entities amounted to $14,700 million $19,300 million at 31 December 2005 and $10,900 million at 31 December 2004.
Operational and statistical information The following tables present operational and statistical information related to production, drilling, productive wells and acreage.
b Crude oil includes natural gas liquids and condensate.
c Natural gas production excludes gas consumed in operations.
Productive oil and gas wells and acreage The following tables show the number of gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells and total gross and net developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas acreage in which the group and its equity-accounted entities had interests as of 31 December 2006.
A gross well or acre is one in which a whole or fractional working interest is owned, while the number of net wells or acres is the sum of the whole or fractional working interests in gross wells or acres.
Productive wells are producing wells and wells capable of production.
Developed acreage is the acreage within the boundary of a eld, on which development wells have been drilled, which could produce the reserves: while undeveloped acres are those on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities, whether or not such acres contain proved reserves.
b Includes approximately 2,283 gross 1,524.6 net multiple completion wells.
If one of the multiple completions in a well is an oil completion, the well is classified as an oil well.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 203 Supplementary information on oil and natural gas continued Net oil and gas wells completed or abandoned The following table shows the number of net productive and dry exploratory and development oil and natural gas wells completed or abandoned in the years indicated by the group and its equity-accounted entities.
Productive wells include wells in which hydrocarbons were encountered and the drilling or completion of which, in the case of exploratory wells, has been suspended pending further drilling or evaluation.
A dry well is one found to be incapable of producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities to justify completion.
Suspended development wells and long-term suspended exploratory wells are also included in the table.
