47 Contingent liabilities There were contingent liabilities at 31 December 2006 in respect of guarantees and indemnities entered into as part of the ordinary course of the groups business.
No material losses are likely to arise from such contingent liabilities.
Group companies have issued guarantees under which amounts outstanding at 31 December 2006 were $1,123 million 2005 $1,228 million in respect of borrowings of jointly controlled entities and associates and $789 million 2005 $736 million in respect of liabilities of other third parties.
Approximately 200 lawsuits were led in State and Federal Courts in Alaska seeking compensatory and punitive damages arising out of the Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound in March 1989.
Most of those suits named Exxon now ExxonMobil, Alyeska Pipeline Service Company Alyeska, which operates the oil terminal at Valdez, and the other oil companies that own Alyeska.
Alyeska initially responded to the spill until the response was taken over by Exxon.
BP owns a 47% interest reduced during 2001 from 50% by a sale of 3% to Phillips in Alyeska through a subsidiary of BP America Inc. and briey indirectly owned a further 20% interest in Alyeska following BPs combination with Atlantic Richeld Company Atlantic Richeld.
Alyeska and its owners have settled all the claims against them under these lawsuits.
Exxon has indicated that it may le a claim for contribution against Alyeska for a portion of the costs and damages which it has incurred.
If any claims are asserted by Exxon that affect Alyeska and its owners, BP will defend the claims vigorously.
Since 1987, Atlantic Richeld, a current subsidiary of BP, has been named as a co-defendant in numerous lawsuits brought in the US alleging injury to persons and property caused by lead pigment in paint.
The majority of the lawsuits have been abandoned or dismissed as against Atlantic Richeld.
Atlantic Richeld is named in these lawsuits as alleged successor to International Smelting & Rening which, along with a predecessor company, manufactured lead pigment during the period 1920-1946.
Plaintiffs include individuals and governmental entities.
Several of the lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The lawsuits depending on plaintiff seek various remedies, including: compensation to lead-poisoned children: cost to nd and remove lead paint from buildings: medical monitoring and screening programmes: public warning and education on lead hazards: reimbursement of government healthcare costs and special education for lead-poisoned citizens: and punitive damages.
No lawsuit against Atlantic Richeld has been settled nor has Atlantic Richeld been subject to a final adverse judgment in any proceeding.
The amounts claimed and, if such suits were successful, the costs of implementing the remedies sought in the various cases could be substantial.
While it is not possible to predict the outcome of these legal actions, Atlantic Richeld believes that it has valid defences and it intends to defend such actions vigorously and thus the incurrence of a liability by Atlantic Richeld is remote.
Consequently, BP believes that the impact of these lawsuits on the groups results of operations, financial position or liquidity will not be material.
In addition, various group companies are parties to legal actions and claims that arise in the ordinary course of the groups business.
While the outcome of such legal proceedings cannot be readily foreseen, BP believes that they will be resolved without material effect on the groups results of operations, financial position or liquidity.
The group is subject to numerous national and local environmental laws and regulations concerning its products, operations and other activities.
These laws and regulations may require the group to take future action to remediate the effects on the environment of prior disposal or release of chemicals or petroleum substances by the group or other parties.
Such contingencies may exist for various sites including reneries, chemical plants, oil elds, service stations, terminals and waste disposal sites.
In addition, the group may have obligations relating to prior asset sales or closed facilities.
The ultimate requirement for remediation and its cost are inherently difficult to estimate.
However, the estimated cost of known environmental obligations has been provided in these accounts in accordance with the groups accounting policies.
While the amounts of future costs could be significant and could be material to the groups results of operations in the period in which they are recognized, BP does not expect these costs to have a material effect on the groups financial position or liquidity.
The group generally restricts its purchase of insurance to situations where this is required for legal or contractual reasons.
This is because external insurance is not considered an economic means of nancing losses for the group.
Losses will therefore be borne as they arise rather than being spread over time through insurance premiums with attendant transaction costs.
The position is reviewed periodically.
48 Capital commitments Authorized future capital expenditure for property, plant and equipment by group companies for which contracts had been placed at 31 December 2006 amounted to $9,773 million 2005 $7,596 million.
Capital commitments of jointly controlled entities amounted to $1,217 million 2005 $576 million.
49 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 December 2004, BP prepared its financial statements in accordance with UK generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
BP, together with all other European Union EU companies listed on an EU stock exchange, was required to prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU with effect from 1 January 2005.
The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005 comprised BPs first consolidated financial statements prepared under IFRS.
The general principle for first-time adoption of IFRS is that standards in force at the first reporting date for BP, 31 December 2005 are applied retrospectively.
However, IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards contains a number of exemptions that companies are permitted to apply.
BP elected to take advantage of the exemption allowing comparative information on financial instruments to be prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and the group adopted IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 from 1 January 2005.
Had IAS 32 and IAS 39 been applied from 1 January 2003, BPs date of transition for all other IFRS in force at the first reporting date, the following are the most significant adjustments that would have been necessary in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004: All derivatives, including embedded derivatives, would have been brought on to the balance sheet at fair value, and changes in fair value would have been recognized in the income statement.
Available-for-sale investments would have been carried at fair value rather than at cost and changes in fair value would have been recognized directly in equity.
168 49 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards continued The reconciliation set out below shows the adjustments to the group balance sheet at 1 January 2005 on the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Previously, these balances were reported within non-current and current prepayments and accrued income and accruals and deferred income.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 169 49 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards continued Adjustments required to the balance sheet as at 1 January 2005 for the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 Under UK GAAP, all derivatives used for trading purposes were recognized on the balance sheet at fair value.
However, derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes were recognized by applying either the accrual method or the deferral method.
Under the accrual method, which was used for derivatives, principally swaps, used to manage interest rate risk, amounts payable or receivable in respect of derivatives are recognized ratably in earnings over the period of the contracts.
Changes in the derivatives fair value are not recognized.
Under the deferral method, gains and losses from derivatives were deferred and recognized in earnings or as adjustments to carrying amounts as the underlying hedged transaction matured or occurred.
This method was applied for derivatives used to convert non-US dollar borrowings into US dollars, to hedge significant non-US dollar rm commitments or anticipated transactions, and to manage some of the groups exposure to natural gas and power price uctuations.
For IFRS, all financial assets and financial liabilities are recognized initially at fair value.
In subsequent periods the measurement of these financial instruments depends on their classication into one of the following measurement categories: i financial assets or financial liabilities  such as those used for trading purposes and all derivatives which do not qualify for hedge accounting : ii loans and receivables: and iii available-for-sale financial assets including certain investments held for the long term.
Fair value hedges Where fair value hedge accounting was applied to transactions that hedge the groups exposure to the changes in the fair value of a rm commitment or a recognized asset or liability that are attributable to a specic risk the derivatives designated as hedging instruments are recorded at their fairvaluein the groups balance sheet and changes in their fair value are recognized in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognized in the income statement.
The pay oating interest rate swaps and currency swaps hedging the debt book in place on 1 January 2005 were highly effective and consequently qualify as fair value hedges for hedge accounting.
The full fair value of the swaps was recognized on the balance sheet and the carrying value of debt was adjusted.
Cash ow hedges The group uses currency derivatives to hedge its exposure to variability in cash ows arising either from a recognized asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
The hedged instrument is recognized at fair value on the balance sheet.
At maturity of the hedged item, the element deferred in equity is treated in accordance with the nature of the hedged exposure, for example, capitalized into the cost of an item of property, plant and equipment, or expensed in the case of a hedge of a tax payment.
Non-qualifying hedge derivatives Under IAS 39, there are strict criteria that need to be met in order for hedge accounting to be applied.
This adjustment records the impact of those derivatives, or elements thereof, held by the group that do not qualify for hedge accounting, or hedges for which hedge accounting has not been claimed under IAS 39.
From 1 January 2005, these positions will be fair valued marked to market and the change in fair value taken to income.
Other non-financial contracts at fair value Certain net-settled non-financial contracts are deemed to meet the denition of financial instruments under IAS 39 and, as such, need to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
Other non-financial contracts no longer at fair value Certain non-financial contracts held for trading purposes were marked to market under UK GAAP.
However, under IFRS they could no longer be recorded at fair value as they did not meet the denition of financial assets or financial liabilities.
These contracts are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Available-for-sale financial assets Under UK GAAP, the groups investments other than subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates were stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
For IFRS, these investments are classied as available-for-sale financial assets, and are recorded at fair value with the gain or loss arising as a result of the change in fair value being recorded directly in equity.
The transition adjustment relates to the fair value of listed investments held by the group.
In accordance with IAS 39, all future fair value adjustments will be booked directly in equity until disposal of the investment, when the cumulative associated gains or losses are recycled through the income statement.
At this point, the gain or loss on disposal under IFRS will be identical to that which would result using historical cost accounting.
Embedded derivatives Embedded derivatives are required to be separated from their host contracts and separately recorded at fair value, with any resulting change in gain or loss in the period being recognized in the income statement.
Certain contracts have been determined to contain embedded derivatives.
These embedded derivatives will be fair valued at each period end with the resulting gains or losses taken to the income statement.
Elimination of currently deferred gains and losses from derivatives Under UK GAAP, gains and losses from derivatives are deferred and recognized in earnings or as adjustments to carrying amounts, as appropriate, when the underlying debt matures or the hedged transaction occurs.
Where derivatives that are used to manage interest rate risk, to convert non-US dollar debtor to hedge other anticipated cash ows are terminated before the underlying debt matures or the hedged transaction occurs, the resulting gain or loss is recognized on a basis that matches the timing and accounting treatment of the underlying debt or hedged transaction.
On transition to IFRS, only assets and liabilities that qualify as such can continue to be recognized.
Consequently, all gains and losses that were generated by derivatives used for hedging purposes and deferred in the balance sheet as if they were assets or liabilities must be eliminated from the transitional balance sheet.
This is achieved by transferring gains and losses arising from cash ow hedges to equity, pending recycling to income at a later date, and by transferring gains and losses arising from fair value hedges to adjust the carrying value of the hedged item, in this case, finance debt.
