13 Impairment and losses on sale of businesses and xed assets continued Other businesses and corporate The impairment charge for 2006 relates to remaining chemical assets after the sale of Innovene.
The impairment charge for 2005 relates to the write-off of additional goodwill on the Solvay transactions.
In 2004, in connection with the Solvay transactions, the group recognized impairment charges of $325 million for goodwill and $270 million for property, plant and equipment in BP Solvay Polyethylene Europe.
As part of a restructuring of the North American Olens and Derivatives businesses, decisions were taken to exit certain businesses and facilities, resulting in impairments and write-downs of $294 million.
Loss on sale of businesses or termination of operations The principal transactions that give rise to the losses for each business segment are described below.
Rening and Marketing In 2004, activities included the closure of two manufacturing plants at Hull, UK, which produced acids: the sale of the European speciality intermediate chemicals business: the closure of the lubricants operation of the Coryton renery in the UK and of rening operations at the ATAS renery in Mersin, Turkey.
Other businesses and corporate For 2004, activities included the sale of the US speciality intermediate chemicals business: the sale of the fabrics and bres business: and the closure of , Texas.
Loss on sale of xed assets The principal transactions that give rise to the losses for each business segment are described below.
Exploration and Production The group divested interests in a number of oil and natural gas properties in all three years.
For 2006, the largest component of the loss is attributed to the sale of properties in the Gulf of Mexico Shelf which includes increases in decommissioning liability estimates associated with the hurricane-damaged elds which were divested during the year.
For 2004, this included interests in oil and natural gas properties in Indonesia and the Gulf of Mexico.
Rening and Marketing For 2006, the principal transactions contributing to the loss were retail churn.
For 2004, the principal transactions contributing to the loss were divestment of the Singapore renery and retail churn.
For Exploration and Production, goodwill has been allocated to each geographic region, that is UK, Rest of Europe, US and Rest of World, and for Rening and Marketing, goodwill has been allocated to strategic performance units SPUs, namely Rening, Retail, Lubricants, Aromatics and Acetyls and Business Marketing.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit including goodwill is compared with the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In the absence of any information about the fair value of a cash-generating unit, the recoverable amount is deemed to be the value in use.
The group generally estimates value in use using a discounted cash ow model.
The future cash ows are usually adjusted for risks specic to the asset and discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 10% 2005 10%.
This discount rate is derived from the groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital.
A different pre-tax discount rate is used where the tax rate applicable to the region is signicantly different from the average corporate taxrate applicable to the group as a whole.
The four or five year business segment plans, which are approved on an annual basis by senior management, are the source for information for the determination of the various values in use.
They contain implicit forecasts for oil and natural gas production, renery throughputs, sales volumes for various types of rened products e. g. gasoline and lubricants, revenues, costs and capital expenditure.
As an initial step to the preparation of these plans, various environmental assumptions, such as oil prices, natural gas prices, rening margins, rened product margins and cost ination rates, are set by senior management.
These environmental assumptions take account of existing prices, global supply-demand equilibrium for oil and natural gas, other macroeconomic factors and historical trends and variability.
For the purposes of impairment testing, the groups Brent oil price assumption is an average $65 per barrel in 2007, $68 per barrel in 2008, $67 per barrel in 2009, $66 per barrel in 2010, $64 per barrel in 2011 and $40 per barrel in 2012 and beyond 2005 $55 per barrel in 2005 decreasing in equal annual steps over the following three years to $25 per barrel in 2009 and beyond.
Similarly, the groups assumption for Henry Hub natural gas prices is an average of $8.10 per mmBtu in 2007, $8.31 per mmBtu in 2008, $7.88 per mmBtu in 2009, $8.21 per mmBtu in 2010, $7.50 per mmBtu in 2011 and $5.50 per mmBtu in 2012 and beyond 2005 $8.65 per mmBtu in 2005 decreasing in equal annual steps over the following three years to $4.00 per mmBtu in 2009 and beyond.
These prices are adjusted to arrive at appropriate consistent price assumptions for different qualities of oil and gas.
124 14 Impairment of goodwill continued Exploration and Production The value in use is based on the cash ows expected to be generated by the projected oil or natural gas production proles up to the expected dates of cessation of production of each producing eld.
The date of cessation of production depends on the interaction of a number of variables, such as the recoverable quantities of hydrocarbons, the production prole of the hydrocarbons, the cost of the development of the infrastructure necessary to recover the hydrocarbons, the production costs, the contractual duration of the production concession and the selling price of the hydrocarbons produced.
As each producing eld has specic reservoir characteristics and economic circumstances, the cash ows of the elds are computed using appropriate individual economic models and key assumptions agreed by BPs management for the purpose.
Cash outows and hydrocarbon production quantities for the first five years are agreed as part of the annual planning process.
Thereafter, estimated production quantities and cash outows up to the date of cessation of production are developed to be consistent with this.
Consistent with prior years, the review for impairment was carried out during the fourth quarter of 2006 using data which was appropriate at that time.
As permitted by IAS 36, the detailed calculation made in 2005 was used for the 2006 impairment test on the goodwill allocated to the Rest of World as the criteria of IAS 36 were considered to be satisfied in respect of this region: the excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying amount was substantial in 2005: there had been no significant change in the assets and liabilities: and the likelihood that the recoverable amount would be less than the carrying amount at the time of the test was remote.
Therefore, the detailed impairment test for goodwill was reperformed only on the carrying amounts in the UK and the US.
The following table shows the carrying value of the goodwill allocated to each of the regions of the Exploration and Production segment and the amount by which the recoverable amount value in use exceeds the carrying amount of the goodwill and other non-current assets in the cashgenerating units to which the goodwill has been allocated.
No impairment charge is required.
To test the sensitivity of the excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying amount of goodwill and other non-current assets shown above the headroom to changes in production volumes and oil and natural gas prices, management has developed rules of thumb for key assumptions.
Applying these gives an indication of the impact on the headroom of possible changes in the key assumptions.
On the basis of the rules of thumb using estimated 2007 production proles and an assumed average 15-year production life, it is estimated that the long-term price of Brent that would cause the total recoverable amount to be equal to the total carrying amount of the goodwill and related non-current assets for individual cash-generating units would be of the order of $31 per barrel for the UK and $28 per barrel for the US.
No reasonably possible change in oil or gas prices would cause the headroom in the Rest of the World to be reduced to zero.
Estimated production volumes are based on detailed data for the elds and take into account development plans for the elds agreed by management as part of the long-term planning process.
It is estimated that, if all our production were to be reduced by 10% for the whole of the next 15 years, this would not be sufficient to reduce the excess of recoverable amount over the carrying amounts of the individual cash generating units to zero.
Consequently, management believes no reasonably possible change in the production assumption would cause the carrying amount of goodwill and other non-current assets to exceed their recoverable amount.
Management also believes that currently there is no reasonably possible change in discount rate which would reduce the groups headroom to zero.
Rening and Marketing For all cash generating units, the cash ows for the next four years are derived from the four-year business segment plan.
The cost ination rate is assumed to be 2.5% 2005 assumption was 2.5% throughout the period.
For determining the value in use for each of the SPUs, cash ows for a period of 10 years have been discounted and aggregated with its terminal value.
Rening Cash ows beyond the four-year period are extrapolated using a 2% growth rate 2005 assumption was 2%.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the Rening unit is most sensitive are gross margins, production volumes and the terminal value.
The value assigned to the gross margin is based on a $7.25 per barrel global indicator margin GIM, which is then adjusted for specic renery congurations.
In 2005 the value assigned to the gross margin was based on a $5.25 per barrel GIM, except in the first year of the plan period when a GIM of $7.25 was used, reecting market conditions expected in the near term.
The value assigned to the production volume is 850mmbbl a year 2005 900mmbbl and remains constant over the plan period.
The value assigned to the terminal value assumption is 6 times earnings 2005 5 times, which is indicative of similar assets in the current market.
These key assumptions reect past experience and are consistent with external sources.
Management believes that no reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would lead to the Rening value in use being equal to its carrying amount.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 125
