14 Impairment of goodwill continued Retail Cash ows beyond the four-year period are extrapolated using a 1.3% growth rate 2005 assumption was no growth reecting a competitive marketplace within a growing global economy.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the Retail unit is most sensitive are unit gross margins, branded marketing volumes, the terminal value and discount rate.
The value assigned to the unit gross margin varies between markets.
For the purpose of planning, each market develops a gross margin based upon a market-specic reference price adjusted for the different income streams within the market and other market specic factors.
The weighted average Retail reference margin used in the plan was 5.0 cents per litre 2005 5.4 cents per litre.
The value assigned to the branded marketing volume assumption is 100 billion litres a year 2005 101 billion litres a year.
The unit gross margin assumptions decline on average by 5% a year over the plan period and marketing volume assumptions grow by an average of 5% a year over the plan period.
The value assigned to the terminal value assumption is 6.5 times earnings 2005 6.5 times, which is indicative of similar assets in the current market.
These key assumptions reect past experience and are consistent with external sources.
The Retail units recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount by $2.1 billion.
Based on sensitivity analysis, it is estimated that if there is an adverse change in the unit gross margin of 11%, the recoverable amount of the Retail unit would equal its carrying amount.
It is estimated that, if the volume assumption changes by 5%, the Retail units value in use changes by $1 billion and, if there is an adverse change in Retail volumes of 11 billion litres a year, the recoverable amount of the Retail unit would equal its carrying amount.
If the multiple of earnings used in the terminal value changes by 1 then the Retail units value in use changes by $0.7 billion and, if the multiple of earnings falls to 3 times then the Retail value in use would equal its carrying amount.
A change of 1% in the discount rate would change the Retail value in use by $0.7 billion and, if the discount rate increases to 13%, the value in use of the Retail unit would equal its carrying amount.
Lubricants Cash ows beyond the four-year period are extrapolated using a 3% margin growth rate 2005 assumption was 3%, which is lower than the long-term average growth rate for the first four years.
The terminal value for the Lubricants unit represents cash ows discounted to perpetuity.
For the Lubricants unit, the key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use is most sensitive are operating margin, sales volumes and the discount rate.
The average values assigned to the operating margins and sales volumes over the plan period are 53 cents per litre 2005 56 cents per litre and 3.5 billion litres a year 2005 3.5 billion litres respectively.
These key assumptions reect past experience.
The Lubricants units recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount by $2.0 billion.
Based on sensitivity analysis, it is estimated that if there is an adverse change in the operating gross margin of 5 cents per litre, the recoverable amount of the Lubricants unit would equal its carrying amount.
If the sales volume assumption changes by 5%, the Lubricants units value in use changes by $1.1 billion and, if there is an adverse change in Lubricants sales volumes of 300 million litres a year, the recoverable amount of the Lubricants unit would equal its carrying amount.
A change of 1% in the discount rate would change the Lubricants units value in use by $0.6 billion and, if the discount rate increases to 14% the value in use of the Lubricants unit would equal its carrying amount.
