53 US GAAP reconciliation The consolidated financial statements of the BP group are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use by the EU, which differ in certain respects from US generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
However, the consolidated financial statements for the years presented would be no different had the group applied IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The following is a summary of the adjustments to profit for the year attributable to BP shareholders and to BP shareholders equity that would be required if US GAAP had been applied instead of IFRS.
BP filed its 2005 Annual Report on Form 20-F on 30 June 2006.
The financial statements included in this filing were approved on 30 June 2006 and reflected an additional provision of $315 million post-tax relating to the Texas City incident of March 2005 as a result of new information that came to light after 6 February 2006.
The amount of this timing difference therefore appears as a reconciling item between the profit to accord with IFRS reported in the Annual Report and Accounts and the profit to accord with IFRS reported in the Form 20-F for both 2005 and 2006.
Similarly, there was a difference of the same amount between BP shareholders equity to accordwithIFRSat 31 December 2005 as reported in the 2005 Annual Report and Accounts and in the Form 20-F. b One American depositary share is equivalent to six ordinary shares.
158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Post-retirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No.
87, 88, 106, and 132 R. Further information on the effects of adoption of SFAS 158 is provided in note h Pensions and other post-retirement benefits.
d Includes $ 13 million relating to equity-accounted entities.
Consolidated statement of cash ows The groups financial statements include a consolidated cash ow statement in accordance with IAS 7 Cash Flow Statements.
The statement prepared under IAS 7 presents substantially the same information as that required under FASB SFAS No.
95 Statement of Cash Flows: however, as permitted under IAS 7, the group includes payments in respect of capitalized interest in operating activities.
Under SFAS 95, these payments are treated as cash outows for investing activities.
The adjustments to the groups cash ow statement for the year to accord with US GAAP are summarized below.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations typically requires the offset to the recognition of such deferred tax assets and liabilities to be adjusted against goodwill.
However, under the exemptions contained in IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, business combinations prior to the groups date of transition to IFRS were not restated in accordancewith IFRS 3 and the offset was taken as an adjustment to shareholders equity at the date of transition to IFRS.
Under US GAAP, deferred tax assets or liabilities are also recognized for the difference between the assigned values and the tax bases of the assets and liabilities recognized in a purchase business combination.
141 Business Combinations, requires that the offset be recognized against goodwill.
As such, the treatment adopted under IFRS 1 as compared with SFAS 141 creates a difference related to business combinations accounted for under the purchase method that occurred prior to the groups date of transition to IFRS.
The adjustments to profit for the year and to BP shareholders equity to accord with US GAAP are summarized below.
In accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, the provisions for decommissioning and environmental liabilities are estimated using costs based on current prices and discounted using rates that take into consideration the time value of money and risks inherent in the liability.
The periodic unwinding of the discount is included in other finance expense.
Similarly, the effect of a change in the discountrate is included in other finance expense in connection with all provisions other than decommissioning liabilities.
Upon initial recognition of a decommissioning provision, a corresponding amount is also recognized as an item of property, plant and equipment and is subsequently depreciated as part of the capital cost of the facilities.
Adjustments to the decommissioning liabilities, associated with changes to the future cash ow assumptions or changes in the discount rate, are reected as increases or decreases to the corresponding item of property, plant and equipment and depreciated prospectively over the assets remaining economic useful life.
Under US GAAP, decommissioning liabilities are recognized in accordance with SFAS No.
143 Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.
SFAS 143 is similar to IAS 37 and requires that when an asset retirement liability is recognized, a corresponding amount is capitalized and depreciated as an additional cost of the related asset.
The liability is measured based on the risk-adjusted future cash outows discounted using a credit-adjusted risk-free rate.
The unwinding of the discount is included in operating profit for the period.
Unlike IFRS, subsequent changes to the discount rate do not impact the carrying value of the asset or liability.
Subsequent changes to the estimates of the timing or amount of future cash ows, resulting in an increase to the asset and liability, are remeasured using updated assumptions related to the credit-adjusted risk-free rate.
In addition, the use of different oil and natural gas reserves volumes between US GAAP and IFRS until 1 October 2006 see note c Oil and natural gas reserves differences resulted in different eld lives and hence differences in the manner in which the subsequent unwinding of the discount and the depreciation of the corresponding assets associated with decommissioning provisions were recognized.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 181 53 US GAAP reconciliation continued Under US GAAP, environmental liabilities are discounted only where the timing and amounts of payments are xed and reliably determinable.
Under IFRS, an expected loss is recognized immediately as a provision for an executory contract if the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benets expected to be received under it.
Under US GAAP, an expected loss can only be recognized if the contract is within the scope of authoritative literature that specically provides for such accruals.
The group has recognized losses under IFRS on certain sales contracts with xed-price ceilings which do not meet loss recognition criteria under US GAAP.
These rules are different in certain respects from the corresponding SEC rules.
In particular, the SEC requires the use of year-end prices, whereas under SORP the group used long-term planning prices.
The consequential difference in reserves volumes resulted in different charges for depreciation, depletion and amortization DD&A between IFRS and US GAAP.
At the end of 2006, the group adopted the SEC rules for estimating oil and natural gas reserves for IFRS accounting and reporting purposes and the charge for DD&A was calculated on this basis for the last three months of the year.
This is a change in accounting estimate and the impact of the change is applied prospectively.
Differences in charges for DD&A between IFRS and US GAAP will continue due to the difference in net book values of the underlying oil and natural gas properties.
Where production commences before all development wells are drilled, a portion of the development costs incurred to date is excluded from the calculation.
For the groups portfolio of elds there is no material difference between the groups charge for unit-of-production depreciation determined on an IFRS basis and on a US GAAP basis.
182 53 US GAAP reconciliation continued d Goodwill and intangible assets For the purposes of US GAAP, the group accounts for goodwill according to SFAS No.
141 Business Combinations, and SFAS No.
142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
For the purposes of IFRS, the group accounts for goodwill under the provisions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
As a result of the transition rules available under IFRS 1, the group did not restate its past business combinations in accordancewith IFRS 3 and assumed its UK GAAP carrying amount for goodwill as its IFRS carrying amount upon transition to IFRS, at 1 January 2003.
Under US GAAP, goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets have not been amortized since 31 December 2001.
Such assets are subject to periodic impairment testing.
The group has goodwill, but does not have any other intangible assets with indefinite lives.
Under IFRS, goodwill amortization ceased from 1 January 2003.
The movement in the goodwill difference during 2006 is the result of movements in foreign exchange rates and a difference in the amount of goodwill allocated to the Gulf of Mexico Shelf assets sold.
During the fourth quarter of 2006 the group completed a goodwill impairment review using the two-step process prescribed in US GAAP.
The first step includes a comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill.
When the carrying value exceeds the fair value, the goodwill of the reporting unit is potentially impaired and the second step is then completed in order to measure the impairment loss, if any.
No impairment charge resulted from this review.
Where proved reserves of oil or natural gas are determined and development is sanctioned, the unamortized cost is transferred to property, plant and equipment.
Where exploration is unsuccessful, the unamortized cost is charged against income.
At 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005, exploration licence acquisition costs included in the groups property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization were as follows.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 183 53 US GAAP reconciliation continued e Derivative financial instruments Under IFRS, the group accounts for its derivative financial instruments under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IAS 39 requires that derivative financial instruments be measured at fair value and changes in fair value are either recognized in the income statement or directly in equity other comprehensive income depending on the classication of the instrument.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives held for trading purposes or those not designated or effective as hedges are recognized in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and effective as cash ow hedges are recognized directly in equity other comprehensive income.
Amounts recorded in equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and effective as fair value hedges are recognized in the income statement.
The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding gains and losses recognized in the income statement.
On adoption of IAS 39 on 1 January 2005, all cash ow and fair value hedges that previously qualied for hedge accounting under UK GAAP were recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with the offset recorded through equity.
Under US GAAP all derivative financial instruments are accounted for under SFAS No.
133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities and recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value.
Similar to IAS 39, SFAS 133 requires that changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in the income statement or other comprehensive income, depending on whether the instrument is designated as part of a hedge transaction.
Prior to 1 January 2005, the group did not designate any of its derivative financial instruments as part of hedged transactions under SFAS 133.
As a result, all changes in fair value were recognized in the income statement.
A difference therefore exists between the treatment applied under SFAS 133 and that upon initial adoption of IAS 39 associated with those specic derivative instruments.
This difference will remain until these individual derivative transactions mature.
Additionally, under IFRS, hedge accounting can be applied to certain centrally-hedged foreign currency exposures.
Under US GAAP, hedge accounting can be applied only where the companies between the central treasury and the entity having the foreign currency exposure have the same functional currency.
Under US GAAP, all balances recorded in inventory are measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Under US GAAP prior to 1 January 2005, exchanges of non-monetary assets were accounted for at book value.
From 1 January 2005 exchanges of non-monetary assets are generally accounted for at fair value under both IFRS and US GAAP.
Surpluses and deficits of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans are included in the group balance sheet at their fair values and all movements in these balances are reected in the income statement, except for those relating to actuarial gains and losses which are reected in the statement of recognized income and expense.
In the past, this treatment has differed from the groups US GAAP treatment under SFAS No.
87 Employers Accounting for Pensions and SFAS No.
106 Employers Accounting for Post-retirement Benets Other Than Pensions, where actuarial gains and losses were not recognized in the income statement as they occurred but were recognized within income in full only when they exceeded certain thresholds, and otherwise were amortized.
This difference in recognition rules for actuarial gains and losses gave rise to differences in periodic pension and other post-retirement benefit expense as measured under IAS 19 compared to SFAS 87 and SFAS 106.
In addition, when a pension plan had an accumulated benefit obligation which exceeded the fair value of the plan assets, SFAS 87 required the unfunded amount to be recognized as a minimum liability in the balance sheet.
The offset to this liability was recorded as an intangible asset up to the amount of any unrecognized prior service cost or transitional liability, and thereafter directly in other comprehensive income.
IAS 19 does not have a similar concept.
As a result, this created a difference in shareholders equity as measured under IFRS and US GAAP.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No.
158 Employers Accounting for Dened benefit Pension and Other Post-retirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No.
87, 88, 106, and 132 R. SFAS 158 requires an employer to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a dened benefit post-retirement plan other than a multi-employer plan as an asset or liability in the balance sheet and to recognize changes in that funded status in other comprehensive income in the year in which the changes occur.
Because the funded status of benefit plans is fully recognized in the balance sheet, a minimum liability will no longer be recognized.
Retrospective application of SFAS 158 is not permitted.
Upon adoption of SFAS 158, the recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of the groups dened benefit pension and other post-retirement plans generally accords with the groups IFRS accounting.
Differences in recognition rules for actuarial gains and losses will continue to give rise to differences in periodic pension and other post-retirement benefit expense as measured under IFRS and US GAAP.
The group has adopted SFAS 158 with effect from 31 December 2006, resulting in a $599 million decrease in BP shareholders equity, as adjusted to accord with US GAAP.
Of this total effect, $586 million relates to group entities and $13 million relates to equity-accounted entities.
The effect on equity-accounted entities is included in note j Equity-accounted investments.
Further information on the effects of adoption of SFAS 158 is given below.
The adoption of SFAS 158 had no effect on the groups consolidated income statement, as adjusted to accord with US GAAP, and will not affect the groups US GAAP profit in future periods.
Had the group not been required to adopt SFAS 158 at 31 December 2006, the group would have recognized an additional minimum pension liability.
The effect of recognizing the additional minimum pension liability is included in the table below in the column headed Prior to adoption.
i Impairments Under IFRS, in determining the amount of any impairment loss, the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and goodwill is compared with the discounted value of the future cash ows.
144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets requires that the carrying value is compared with the undiscounted future cash ows to determine if an impairment is present, and only if the carrying value is less than the undiscounted cash ows is an impairment loss recognized.
The impairment is measured using the discounted value of the future cash ows.
Due to this difference, some impairment charges recognized under IFRS, adjusted for the impacts of depreciation, have not been recognized for US GAAP.
Additionally, under IFRS, in certain situations and subject to certain limitations, a  impairment loss is reversed.
Under US GAAP, the reversal of a  impairment loss for an asset to be held and used is not permitted.
The decrease to gain on sale of businesses and xed assets for the year ended 31 December 2006 represents the impact of a 2005 impairment charge recognized under IFRS but not for US GAAP on certain Gulf of Mexico Shelf assets that were subsequently sold in 2006.
The major difference between IFRS and US GAAP in this respect relates to deferred tax see note a Deferred taxation business combinations.
However, the amounts presented for IFRS reporting differ from those under US GAAP due to differences in the underlying carrying values of the assets and liabilities classied as held for sale.
The adjustments to BP shareholders equity to accord with US GAAP are summarized below.
46 Revised Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.
Interpretation 46 claries the application of existing consolidation requirements to entities where a controlling financial interest is achieved through arrangements that do not involve voting interests.
Under Interpretation 46, a variable interest entity is consolidated if a company is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the variable interest entitys activities or entitled to receive a majority of the entitys residual returns.
The group currently has several ships under construction or in service which are accounted for under IFRS as operating leases.
Under Interpretation 46 certain of the arrangements represent variable interest entities that would be consolidated by the group.
The maximum exposure to loss as a result of the groups involvement with these entities is limited to the debt of the entity, less the fair value of the ships at the end of the lease term.
During 2006, a number of the existing leasing arrangements that were being consolidated for US GAAP reporting were modied.
Under the revised arrangements, the group is not the primary beneciary.
As such, the arrangements are no longer consolidated under US GAAP.
This included other elements of expenditure incurred during major plant maintenance shutdowns, such as overhaul costs.
With effect from 1 January 2005, the group changed its US GAAP accounting policy to expense the part of major maintenance that represents overhaul costs and similar major maintenance expenditure as incurred.
The effect of this accounting change for US GAAP reporting is reected as a cumulative effect of an accounting change for the year ended 31 December 2005 of $794 million net of tax benets of $354 million.
This adjustment is equal to the net book value of capitalized overhaul costs as of 1 January 2005 as reported under US GAAP.
This new accounting policy reects the policy applied under IFRS for all periods presented.
As a result, a difference between IFRS and US GAAP exists for periods prior to 1 January 2005 which reects the capitalization of overhaul costs net of the related depreciation charge as calculated under US GAAP.
The adjustments to profit for the year to accord with US GAAP are summarized below.
n Share-based payments The group adopted SFAS No.
123 revised 2004, Share-Based Payment with effect from 1 January 2005 using the modied prospective transition method.
Under SFAS 123 R, share-based payments to employees are required to be measured based on their grant date fair value with limited exceptions and recognized over the related service period.
For periods prior to 1 January 2005, the group accounted for share-based payments under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25 using the intrinsic value method.
With effect from 1 January 2005, as part of the adoption of IFRS, the group adopted IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
IFRS 2 requires the recognition of expense when goods or services are received from employees or others in consideration for equity instruments.
In adopting IFRS 2, the group elected to restate prior years to recognize an expense associated with share-based payments that were not fully vested at 1 January 2003, BPs date of transition to IFRS, and the liability relating to cash-settled share-based payments at 1 January 2003.
As a result of the transition requirements of SFAS 123 R and IFRS 2, certain differences between US GAAP and IFRS have arisen.
For periods prior to 1 January 2005, the group has recognized share-based payments under IFRS using a fair value method which is substantially different from the intrinsic value method used under US GAAP.
From 1 January 2005, the group has used the fair value method to measure share-based payment expense under both IFRS and US GAAP.
A difference in expense exists however because the group uses a different valuation model under US GAAP for issued options outstanding and not yet vested at 31 December 2004 as required under the transition rules of SFAS 123 R. In addition, deferred taxes on share-based compensation are recognized differently under US GAAP than under IFRS.
Under US GAAP, deferred taxes are recorded on share-based payment expense recognized during the period in accordance with SFAS 109.
Under IFRS, deferred taxes are only recorded on the difference between the tax base of the underlying shares and the carrying value of the employee services as determined at each balance sheet date in accordance with IAS 12.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 189 53 US GAAP reconciliation continued The adjustments to profit for the year and to BP shareholders equity to accord with US GAAP are summarized below.
Under US GAAP EITF Issue No.
03-13 Applying the Conditions in Paragraph 42 of FASB Statement No.
144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, in Determining Whether to Report Discontinued Operations, a disposed component of an enterprise is classied as a discontinued operation only where the ongoing entity has no significant continuing direct cash ows and does not retain an interest, contract or other arrangement sufficient to enable the entity to exert significant inuence over the disposed components operating and financial policies after disposal.
In connection with the sale of Innovene the group has a number of commercial arrangements with Innovene for the supply of rening and petrochemical feedstocks, and the purchase and sale of rened products.
Because of continuing direct cash ows that will result from activities with Innovene subsequent to divestment, under US GAAP the operations of Innovene would not be classied as a discontinued operation but would be included in the groups continuing operations.
Under IFRS, the operations of Innovene are classied as discontinued operations.
The following summarizes the income statement reclassications that would be made if the operations of Innovene were shown in continuing operations.
For the group, energy trading contracts in oil, natural gas, NGLs and power comprise exchange-traded derivative instruments such as futures and options and non-exchange-traded instruments such as swaps, over-the-counter options and forward contracts.
The following tables show the net fair value of contracts held for trading purposes at 31 December analysed by maturity period and by methodology of fair value estimation.
The group controls the scale of the trading exposures by using a value-at-risk model with a maximum value-at-risk limit authorized by the board.
The group measures its market risk exposure, i. e. potential gain or loss in fair values, on its trading activity using value-at-risk techniques.
These techniques are based on a variance covariance model or a Monte Carlo simulation and make a statistical assessment of the market risk arising from possible future changes in market values over a 24-hour period.
The calculation of the range of potential changes in fair value takes into account a snapshot of the end-of-day exposures and the history of one-day price movements, together with the correlation of these price movements.
The potential movement in fair values is expressed to 1.65 standard deviations which is equivalent to a 95% confidence level.
This means that, in broad terms, one would expect to see an increase or a decrease in fair values greater than the value at risk on approximately one occasion per month if the portfolio were left unchanged.
The group calculates value at risk on all instruments that are held for trading purposes and therefore give an exposure to market risk.
The value-at-risk models take account of derivative financial instruments such as oil, natural gas and power price futures and swap agreements.
Financial assets and liabilities and physical crude oil and rened products that are treated as held for trading positions are also included in these calculations.
For options, a linear approximation is included in the value-at-risk models.
The value-at-risk calculation for oil, natural gas, NGLs and power price exposure alsoincludes derivative commodity instruments commodity contracts that permit settlement either by delivery of the underlying commodity or in cash, such as forward contracts.
The following table shows values at risk for energy trading activities.
154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a replacement of APB Opinion No.
SFAS 154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle and changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle.
SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior period financial statements of a voluntary change in accounting principle unless it is impracticable.
Previously, most voluntary changes in accounting principle were recognized by including in net income of the period of the change the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting principle.
SFAS 154 also requires that a change in the method of depreciation, amortization or depletion for long-lived non-financial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate that is affected by a change in accounting principle.
Previously, such changes were reported as a change in accounting principle.
SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in accounting periods beginning after 15 December 2005.
The group adopted SFAS 154 with effect from 1 January 2006.
The adoption of SFAS 154 did not have a significant effect on the groups profit as adjusted to accord with US GAAP, or on BP shareholders equity as adjusted to accord with US GAAP.
192 53 US GAAP reconciliation continued Revenue In September 2005, the FASB ratied the consensus reached by the EITF regarding Issue No.
04-13 Accounting for Purchases and Sales of Inventory with the Same Counterparty.
EITF 04-13 addresses accounting issues that arise when a company both sells inventory to and buys inventory from another entity in the same line of business.
The purchase and sale transactions may be pursuant to a single contractual arrangement or separate contractual arrangements and the inventory purchased or sold may be in the form of raw material, work-in-process or nished goods.
At issue is whether the revenue, inventory cost and cost of sales should be recorded at fair value or whether the transactions should be classied as non-monetary transactions.
EITF 04-13 requires purchases and sales of inventory with the same counterparty that are entered into in contemplation of one another be combined and recorded as exchanges measured at the book value of the item sold.
EITF 04-13 is effective for new arrangements entered into and modications or renewals of existing arrangements in accounting periods beginning after 15 March 2006.
The group adopted EITF 04-13 with effect from 1 January 2006.
The adoption of EITF 04-13 did not have a significant effect on the groups profit as adjusted to accord with US GAAP, or on BP shareholders equity as adjusted to accord with US GAAP.
Share-based payments In February 2006, the FASB issued Staff Position No.
FAS 123 R -4 Classication of Options and Similar Instruments Issued as Employee Compensation That Allow for Cash Settlement upon the Occurrence of a Contingent Event.
FSP 123 R -4 claries the classication of options and similar instruments issued as employee compensation that allow for cash settlement upon the occurrence of a contingent event.
Under FSP 123 R -4, an option or similar instrument with a contingent cash settlement provision is classied as an equity award provided that the contingent event that permits or requires cash settlement is not considered probable of occurring, the contingent event is not within the control of the employee and the award includes no other features that would require liability classication.
For entities that adopted SFAS 123 R prior to the issuance of FSP 123 R -4, FSP 123 R -4 is effective for accounting periods beginning after 3 February 2006.
The group adopted FSP 123 R -4 with effect from 1 January 2006.
The adoption of FSP 123 R -4 did not have a significant effect on the groups profit as adjusted to accord with US GAAP, or on BP shareholders equity as adjusted to accord with US GAAP.
Consolidation of variable interest entities In April 2006, the FASB issued Staff Position No.
FIN 46 R -6, Determining the Variability to Be Considered in Applying FASB Interpretation No.
46 R. FSP 46 R -6 claries how variability should be considered in applying FIN 46 R. Variability is used in applying FIN 46 R to determine whether an entity is a variable interest entity, which interests are variable interests in the entity, and who is the primary beneciary of the variable interest entity.
Under FSP 46 R -6, the variability to be considered in applying FIN 46 R -6 is based on the design of the entity, the nature and risks of the entity and the purpose for which entity was created.
FSP 46 R -6 is effective for accounting periods beginning after 15 June 2006.
The group adopted FSP 46 R -6 with effect from 1 July 2006.
The adoption of FSP 46 R -6 did not have a significant effect on the groups profit as adjusted to accord with US GAAP, or on BP shareholders equity as adjusted to accord with US GAAP.
Pensions and other post-retirement benets In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No.
The group adopted SFAS 158 with effect from 31 December 2006, resulting in a $599 million decrease in BP shareholders equity, as adjusted to accord with US GAAP.
Further information on the effects of adoption of SFAS 158 is provided in note h Pensions and other post-retirement benets.
Financial statement misstatements In September 2006, the staff of the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements.
SAB 108 was issued to address the diversity in practice in quantifying misstatements from prioryears and assessing their effect on current year financial statements.
SAB 108 is effective for scal years ending after 15 November 2006.
The adoption of SAB 108 did not have a significant effect on the groups profit as adjusted to accord with US GAAP, or on BP shareholders equity as adjusted to accord with US GAAP.
Not yet adopted Financial instruments In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No.
155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No.
SFAS 155 simplies the accounting for certain hybrid financial instruments under SFAS 133 by permitting fair value remeasurement for financial instruments containing an embedded derivative that otherwise would require separation of the derivative from the financial instrument.
SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued or subject to a remeasurement event occurring in scal years beginning after 15 September 2006.
The adoption of SFAS 155 is not expected to have a significant effect on the groups profit as adjusted to accord with US GAAP, or on BP shareholders equity as adjusted to accord with US GAAP.
Taxes collected from customers In June 2006, the FASB ratied the consensus reached by the EITF regarding Issue No.
06-3 How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income Statement That Is, Gross versus Net Presentation.
Under EITF 06-3, taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities can be presented either gross within revenue and cost of sales, or net.
Where such taxes are significant, EITF 06-3 requires disclosure of the accounting policy for presenting taxes and the amount of any such taxes that are recognized on a gross basis.
EITF 06-3 is effective for accounting periods beginning after 15 December 2006.
The group has not yet adopted EITF 06-3.
The groups accounting policy with regard to taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities is to present such taxes net in the income statement, and as a result the adoption of EITF 06-3 will not have any impact.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 193
