11 Share-based payments continued The group used a Monte Carlo simulation to fair value the SHRAM element of the 2004 LTPP and EDIP plan.
In accordance with the rules of the plan, the model simulates BPs SHRAM and compares it with the comparator companies all companies in the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index over the three-year period of the plan.
The SHRAMs of the comparator companies have been determined from market data over the preceding three-year period.
The model takes into account the historic dividend yields, share price volatilities and covariances of BP and each comparator company to produce a predicted distribution of relative share performance.
This is applied to the reward criteria to give an expected value of the SHRAM element.
Accounting expense does not necessarily represent the actual value of share-based payments made to recipients which are determined by the Remuneration Committee according to established criteria.
12 Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the companys auditors for the audit of the companys accounts were $15 million 2005 $19 million and 2004 $13 million.
Remuneration receivable by the companys auditors for the supply of other services to the company is not presented in the parent company accounts as this information is provided in the group accounts.
Pension contributions Five executive directors participated in a non-contributory pension scheme established for UK staff by a separate trust fund to which contributions are made by BP based on actuarial advice.
One US executive director participated in the US BP Retirement Accumulation Plan during 2006.
Ofce facilities for former chairmen and deputy chairmen It is customary for the company to make available to former chairmen and deputy chairmen who were previously employed executives, the use of ofce and basic secretarial facilities following their retirement.
The cost involved in doing so is not significant.
Further information Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the directors remuneration report on pages 68-75.
