36 Derivative financial instruments An outline of the groups financial risks and the policies and objectives pursued in relation to those risks is set out in the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk section on pages 61-64.
This note contains the disclosures required by IAS 32 for derivative financial instruments.
IAS 39 prescribes strict criteria for hedge accounting, whether as a cash ow or fair value hedge, and requires that any derivative that does not meet these criteria should be classied as held for trading and fair valued.
BP adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 1 January 2005 without restating prior periods financial information.
Consequently, the groups accounting policy under UK GAAP has been used for 2004.
The policy under UK GAAP and the disclosures required by UK GAAP for derivative financial instruments are shown in Note 37.
In the normal course of business the group is a party to derivative financial instruments derivatives to manage its normal business exposures in relation to commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, including management of the balance between oating rate and xed rate debt consistent with risk management policies and objectives.
Additionally, the group has a well-established trading activity that is undertaken in conjunction with each of these activities using a similar range of contracts.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments at 31 December are set out below.
Previously, these balances were reported within non-current and current prepayments and accrued income and accruals and deferred income.
The comparative gures have been restated to conform with the 2006 presentation.
Derivatives held for trading The group maintains active trading positions in a variety of derivatives.
This activity is undertaken in conjunction with risk management activities.
Derivatives held for trading purposes are recognized at fair value and changes in fair value recognized in the income statement.
Trading activities are undertaken by using a range of contract types in combination to create incremental gains by arbitraging prices between markets, locations and time periods.
The net of these exposures is monitored using market value-at-risk techniques described in the section on market risk exposure.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 141 36 Derivative financial instruments continued The following tables show the fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments held for trading purposes.
The fair values at the year end are not materially unrepresentative of the position throughout the year.
Changes during the year in the net fair value of derivatives held for trading purposes were as follows.
When all of the remaining contracts can be valued using observable market data this gain or loss is recognized in income.
Changes in valuation from this initial valuation are recognized immediately through income.
The following table shows the change in the associated fair value of assets and liabilities.
Prices sourced from observable dataor market corroboration refers to the fair value of contracts valued in part using active quotes and in part using observable, market-corroborated data for example, swaps and physical forward contracts.
Prices based on models and other valuation methods refers to the fair value of a contract valued in part using internal models due to the absence of quoted prices, including over-the-counter options.
The net change in fair value of contracts based on models and other valuation methods during the year was a loss of $117 million 2005 $130 million gain.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty to the contract will fail to perform or fail to pay amounts due.
The primary activities of the group are oil and natural gas exploration and production, gas and power marketing and trading, oil rening and marketing and the manufacture and marketing of petrochemicals.
The groups principal customers, suppliers and financial institutions with which it conducts business are located throughout the world.
The group has a credit policy that governs the management of credit risk, including the establishment of counterparty credit limits and specic transaction approvals.
The group limits credit risk by assessing creditworthiness of potential counterparties before entering into transactions with them and continuing to evaluate their creditworthiness after transactions have been initiated.
Creditworthiness is assessed using Moodys Investors Service, Standard & Poors and qualitative and quantitative data.
The group attempts to mitigate credit risk by entering into contracts that permit netting and allow for termination of the contract upon the occurrence of certain events of default.
Depending upon the creditworthiness of the counterparty, the group may require collateral in the form of cash deposits or letters of credit and parent company guarantees.
The maximum exposure of the group to credit risk is represented by the balance sheet carrying amount for all financial instruments within the scope of IAS 32, principally derivative financial instruments, trade and other receivables and financial guarantees.
Financial guarantees in respect of equity-accounted entities were $1,123 million and financial guarantees in respect of third parties were $789 million at 31 December 2006.
The maximum exposure to credit risk does not take account of collateral of $689 million.
Trade and other derivative assets and liabilities are presented on a net basis where netting arrangements are in place with counterparties are unconditional and where there is an intent to settle amounts due on a net basis Market risk The group measures its market risk exposure, i. e. potential gain or loss in fair values, on its held-for-trading activity using value-at-risk techniques.
These techniques are based on a variance covariance model or a Monte Carlo simulation and make a statistical assessment of the market risk arising from possible future changes in market values over a 24-hour period.
The calculation of the range of potential changes in fair value takes into account a snapshot of the end-of-day exposures and the history of one-day price movements, together with the correlation of these price movements.
The group calculates value at risk for the bulk of instruments and exposures in the held-for-trading category, other than the UK North Sea natural gas embedded derivatives, for which a sensitivity analysis is calculated.
The potential movement in fair values is expressed to 1.65 standard deviations which is equivalent to a 95% confidence level.
This means that, in broad terms, one would expect to see an increase or a decrease in fair values greater than the value at risk on one occasion per month if the portfolio were left unchanged.
The value-at-risk model takes account of derivative financial instrument types such as interest rate forward and futures contracts, swap agreements, options and swaptions: foreign exchange forward and futures contracts, swap agreements and options, and oil, natural gas and power price futures, swap agreements and options.
Additionally, where physical commodities are held as part of a trading position, they are also included in these calculations.
For options, a linear approximation is included in the value-at-risk models, when full revaluation is not possible.
The following table shows values at risk for the held-for-trading activities described above.
The contract types treated in this way include futures, options, swaps and certain forward sales and purchase contracts where delivery is routinely obviated by the purchase or sale of offsetting contracts.
Also included within sales and other operating revenues are gains and losses on inventory held for trading purposes and the change in fair value of derivative contracts which have been determined to be not for trading purposes but are required to be fair valued.
The total amount relating to these items was a gain of $2,842 million 2005 $838 million gain and 2004 $1,216 million gain.
Derivative assets held for trading denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of individual operating units are summarized below.
After the development of an active UK gas market, certain contracts were entered into or renegotiated using pricing formulae not directly related to gas prices, for example, oil product and power prices.
In these circumstances, pricing formulae have been determined to be derivatives, embedded within the overall contractual arrangements that are not clearly and closely related to the underlying commodity.
The resulting fair value relating to these contracts is recognized on the balance sheet with gains or losses recognized in the income statement.
These contracts are valued using price curves for each of the different products that are built up from active market pricing data and extrapolated to 2018 using the maximum available external pricing information.
Additionally, where limited data exists for certain products, prices are interpolated using historic and long-term pricing relationships.
The following table shows the changes during the year in the net fair value of embedded derivatives.
Sensitivity analysis Detailed below for the natural gas embedded derivatives is a sensitivity of the fair value to immediate 10% favourable and adverse changes in the key assumptions.
Changes in fair value generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of change in assumption to change in fair value may not be linear.
Also, in this table, the effect of a variation ina particular assumption on the fair value of the embedded derivatives is calculated independently of any change in another assumption.
In reality, changes in one factor may contribute to changes in another, which may magnify or counteract the sensitivities.
Furthermore, the estimated fair values as disclosed should not be considered indicative of future earnings on these contracts.
The fair value gain loss on embedded derivatives is shown below.
Embedded derivative liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of individual operating units are summarized below.
The effective portion of the change in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognized directly in equity, whilst the ineffective portion is recognized in profit or loss.
When the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is transferred out of equity to either profit or loss or the carrying value of assets, as appropriate.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss previously recognized in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
The hedges were assessed to be highly effective.
An analysis of the changes in net fair value is shown below.
Fair value hedges At 31 December, the group held interest rate and currency swap contracts as fair value hedges of the interest rate risk on xed rate debt issued by the group.
These hedges were assessed to be highly effective.
The interest rate and currency swaps have an average maturity of 2 to 3 years, and are used to convert sterling, euro, Swiss franc and Australian dollar denominated borrowings into US dollar oating rate debt.
Hedges of net investments in foreign entities At 31 December, the group held currency swap contracts as a hedge of a long-term investment in a UK subsidiary.
The hedge was assessed to be highly effective.
At 31 December 2006, the hedge had a fair value of $107 million 2005 $63 million and the gain on the hedge recognized in equity was $105 million 2005 $58 million.
US dollars have been sold forward for sterling purchased, with a maturity of 2 to 3 years.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 147
