Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the of Fidelity European Values PLC will be held at 25 Company to allot relevant securities as defined in Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA on 18 May 2007 that section up to an aggregate nominal amount at 12 noon for the following purposes: of 772,750 approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital of the ORDINARY BUSINESS Company as at 28 February 2007 such authority to 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the 2.
earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the 3.
To re-elect Mr Walther as a Director.
expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry 4.
To re-elect Mr Fraser as a Director.
as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To re-elect Mr Simpson as a Director.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 10 set 6.
To re-elect Mr Duckworth as a Director.
out above, the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot 7.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act for the year ended 31 December 2006. for cash pursuant to the authority given by the said Resolution 10 as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not To consider the following resolution, special notice apply to any such allotment, provided that this power having been received of the intention to propose the shall be limited: resolution as an ordinary resolution: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection 8.
To re-appoint RSM Robson Rhodes LLP as Auditors of with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of the Company having previously been appointed by relevant equity securities where the equity securities the Board to fill the casual vacancy arising by reason attributable respectively to the interests of all holders of the resignation of  LLP, of securities of such class are either proportionate to hold office until the conclusion of the next as nearly as may be to the respective numbers general meeting at which financial statements are of relevant equity securities held by them or are laid before the Company.
otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either 9.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the remuneration.
Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical SPECIAL BUSINESS problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, Resolutions 10 and 11 will, if approved, authorise the any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any Directors to allot a limited number of the currently territory or otherwise : and unissued ordinary shares for cash without first offering such shares to existing ordinary shareholders pro rata b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights to their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is issue of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal 5% of the number of ordinary shares of the Company in amount of 772,750 approximately 5% of the issue on 28 February 2007.
The Directors will only issue aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital new shares under this authority to take advantage of of the Company as at 28 February 2007 : and opportunities in the market as they arise and only if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys c to the allotment of equity securities at a price of not shareholders to do so.
less than the net asset value per share and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 resolutions which will be proposed, Resolution 10 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever as an ordinary resolution and Resolution 11 as a is the earlier, save that this authority shall allow the special resolution: Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority, and the Directors may allot 10.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby equity securities in relation to such an offer or generally and unconditionally authorised in agreement as if the authority conferred by this accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act resolution had not expired.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Page 53 Notice of Meeting Resolution 12 is a special resolution which, if approved, Notes: will renew the Companys authority to purchase its 1 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote is entitled shares for cancellation.
The limit set by the Board is to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a 14.99% of the number of ordinary shares in issue on 28 poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a February 2007.
Purchases of shares will be made at the shareholder of the Company.
discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board and in the light of prevailing 2 A form of proxy is enclosed for use by shareholders.
Purchases will only be made in the Completion and return of the form of proxy will not market at prices below the prevailing net asset value prevent a shareholder from subsequently attending per share, thereby resulting in an increase in net asset the meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
3 To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, 12.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and and any power of attorney or other authority under unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section which it is signed or a copy of any such authority 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make certified notarially or in some other way approved by market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 the Directors, must be deposited with the Companys of the Act of shares of 25p each in the capital of the Registrars, Capita Registrars, Proxy Processing Centre, Company the shares provided that: Telford Road, Bicester, OX26 4LD not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken to be purchased shall be 9,275,000: more than 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the b the minimum price which may be paid for a share taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
is 25p: 4 In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who c the maximum price which may be paid for a share tenders the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the of the votes of the other joint holders and for this middle market quotations for a share taken from purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: 5 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 the Company has d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the specified that only those shareholders registered in conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Register of Members of the Company at 5.30pm the Company unless such authority is renewed prior on 16 May 2007 shall be entitled to attend and vote to such time: and at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the e the Company may make a contract to purchase Register of Members after 5.30pm on 16 May 2007 shares under the authority hereby conferred prior shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any to the expiry of such authority which will or may be person to attend and vote at the meeting.
executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares 6 Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they pursuant to any such contract.
appoint agree by attending the meeting that they are expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any Resolution 13 is an ordinary resolution, which relates to communications, including communications relating the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
to the Companys securities, made at the meeting.
THAT the Company continue to carry on business 7 No Director has a service contract with the Company.
Registered Office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower By Order of the Board Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP Fidelity Investments International Secretary 23 March 2007 Page 54 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC The Manager of the Company Fidelity Investments International offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity European Values PLC is a company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA The annual management charge is as described above A Fidelity ISA Individual Savings Account can be in the Investing in an ISA section.
an excellent way to get more from your investment, because you will not have to pay income or capital gains INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA tax on your returns.
If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already used your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment up to 7,000 in a Maxi ISA Trust Share Plan offers you a low-cost and convenient way to put money into Fidelity European Values PLC.
up to 4,000 in a Mini stocks and shares ISA The minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 The minimum investment in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
Investing for children The Share Plan is a flexible and inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All you 5 in 1 ISA Fidelity European Values PLC is one of five have to do is enter the initials or name of the child in investment trusts managed by Fidelity.
You can invest the Designation Box on the Share Plan application form.
in the entire range through the Fidelity 5-in-1 ISA, which A special leaflet on investing for children through spreads your money equally across all five trusts.
This investment trusts is available from Fidelity.
offers a simple and convenient way to invest across Europe, the UK, Japan and Asia giving you a broadly Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or diversified portfolio in a single investment.
holding shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan other than Stamp Duty of 0.5%, which is Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity ISA currently payable on all share purchases.
Fidelity pays stamp duty from the initial charge.
if you invest through a Financial Adviser, there may There are no other charges for the Fidelity ISA, but the be an initial charge of up to 3% to pay for advice.
Company pays an annual management charge to Fidelity of 1% plus VAT, as set out in the Annual Report.
Holding shares directly If you have shares in Fidelity European Values PLC that you bought through a broker MOVING MONEY FROM or share shop you can transfer them into the Fidelity PREVIOUS PEPS AND ISAS Investment Trust Share Plan.
Doing this allows you to If you have opened ISAs or PEPs with other investment reinvest your dividends and make further investments companies, you can move them into the Fidelity ISA and without having to pay brokerage fees.
invest in Fidelity European Values PLC without losing any tax benefits.
This is known as a transfer and it can be a You will also be able to set up a monthly savings plan great way to give your portfolio a new focus, or to realign and receive statements and valuations twice a year.
it with your current investment goals.
Please note that during the transfer your money will not be invested in the INVESTING ONLINE stockmarket so you may miss out on any growth during You can invest online in Fidelity European Values PLC this time.
Fidelity Share Network enables you to buy or sell shares in any listed Charges The standard initial charge for a transfer is company during normal London Stock Exchange trading 3.5%.
You will not have to pay any additional transfer hours between 8am and 4.30pm any working day.
However, please bear in mind that your current Shares in Share Network can either be held direct or in ISA or PEP manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
an ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and restrictions.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Page 55 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC You will be shown a live price and be able to buy or sell - Account Enquiry: immediately.
If an order is placed when the market is closed, it will be processed as soon as the market re- - Allows shareholders to access their personal opens.
Unlike many online share dealing services, shareholding, including share transaction history, Fidelity Share Network gives you CREST personal dividend payment history and to obtain an up-to-date membership for shares held direct.
This means that shareholding valuation: shares are registered on the CREST system in your own name and everything relating to your shares dividends, - Amendment of Standing Data.
This allows you to annual reports and so on will be sent direct to you and change your registered postal address and add, change you will be able to attend and vote at shareholder or delete dividend mandate instructions.
meetings in your own name.
Personal CREST membership does not apply to ISA holdings which must You can also download from this site forms such as be held in the name of the ISA managers nominee under change of address, stock transfer and dividend mandate ISA regulations.
Fidelity Share Network has a very forms as well as buy and sell shares in the Company.
Share purchases or sales are executed on line for only 9 per trade.
Stamp duty is To make use of any of these facilities, please log on to also payable on purchases at the rate of 0.5%.
There is the Capita Registrars website at an account administration fee of 5 per month, however www.
com shareholders and follow the many different shares you own and whatever their value.
links to the Share Portal.
CONTACT INFORMATION Should you have any queries in respect of the above Private investors: call free to 0800 41 41 10, 9am to 6pm.
facilities, please do not hesitate to contact the Capita Share Portal helpline on 0870 162 3191, overseas 44 20 Financial advisers: call free to 0800 41 41 81, 8am to 8639 3367, or by e-mail at shareportal@capita.
Share Plan investors Existing shareholders who have a specific query Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan, Lloyds TSB regarding their holding or need to provide update Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 information, for example a change of address, should 6DA Telephone: 0870 601 5366 contact the appropriate administrator: ISA PEP investors Holders of ordinary shares Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given opposite, Capita Registrars, Registrars to Fidelity European Values or by writing to: PLC, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, UK Customer Service, Fidelity Investments, Oakhill Kent BR3 4TU Telephone: 0870 162 3100 House, 130 Tonbridge Road, Hildenborough, Tonbridge, Through the website of our Registrar, Capita Registrars, Kent TN11 9DZ shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online by registering for the Share Portal, a free, secure, Fidelity Share Network: online access to your shareholding.
co. uk sharenetwork General enquiries should be made to Fidelity, the Investment Manager and Secretary, at the Companys registered office: Fidelity Investments International Investment Trusts Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP www.
co. uk its KEEPING YOU UPDATED If you hold Fidelity European Values PLC shares in an ISA or PEP, you will receive a yearly report detailing all of your transactions and the value of your shares.
Investors with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan will receive statements and valuations twice a year.
The share price of Fidelity European Values PLC appears daily in The Financial Times.
Price and performance information is also available at fidelity.
co. uk its Investors can obtain the real-time share price by phoning FT Cityline on 0906 843 2287.
Calls are charged at a premium rate.
Page 56 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by Fidelity Investments International.
Both companies are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars and shares will be held in the name of Lloyds TSB Registrars Savings Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by Fidelity Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Issued by Fidelity Investments International, authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
For the purposes of Sections 21 and 25 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, the content of this report has been approved by Fidelity Investments International.
Issued by Fidelity Investments International.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than other more developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investees should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity.
Fidelity, Fidelity International and the Pyramid Logo are trademarks of Fidelity International Limited.
CB30277 NA Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Page 57 The printing inks used for this report are made from vegetable based oils and 95% of cleaning solvents are recycled for further use.
The electricity was all generated from renewable sources and on average 87% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Printed using pureprint environmental print technology by a CarbonNeutral company, registered to the Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Revive 50:50, a paper containing 50% recovered fibre & 50% virgin fibre.
SGS-COC-0620 used are elemental chlorine free, manufactured at a mill with the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System.
