Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The independent Auditors have represented to your Report and the financial statements in accordance with Board that their work does not involve any consideration applicable law and regulations.
of the maintenance and integrity of any websites and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for Company law requires the Directors to prepare any changes that may have occurred to the financial financial statements for each financial period.
Under statements since they were approved.
Visitors to any that law they have elected to prepare the financial website need to be aware that legislation in the United statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination Accounting Practice.
of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdictions.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss for the period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, including a Business Review, a Directors Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The financial statements may be published on a website.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Page 23
