Information for Shareholders Net Asset Value and Share Price Unit of Market quotation price The Companys net asset value is released daily, on Ordinary shares 25p 14.875p the working day following the calculation date, to the 4.25% perpetual debenture stock 100 28.25 London Stock Exchange.
The current share price of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is shown in the investment trust section of the stockmarket page Income Tax in most leading newspapers, usually under For & The proposed final dividend of 2.85p per share Col. Investors in New Zealand and Germany can is payable on 9 May 2007.
Individual UK resident obtain share prices from leading newspapers in shareholders who are subject to UK income tax at those countries.
the lower rate or the basic rate have no further tax liability.
Shareholders not resident in the UK, and any Performance Information shareholders in doubt as to their tax position, should Information on the Companys performance is consult their professional advisers.
provided in the interim and final reports which are sent to shareholders in August and April respectively.
Association of Investment Companies AIC More up-to-date performance information, including Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is a member the full list of investments in the portfolio as at the of the AIC, which publishes a monthly statistical most recent quarter end, is available on the Internet information service in respect of member companies.
com under Company The publication also has details of ISA, PEP and facts.
com also other investment plans available.
For further details, provides a monthly update on the Companys please contact the AIC on 020 7282 5555, or visit geographic spread and largest holdings, along with the website: www.
comments from the Fund Manager.
UK Capital Gains Tax CGT An approved investment trust does not pay tax on capital gains.
UK resident individuals may realise net capital gains of up to 8,800 in the tax year ended 5 April 2007 without incurring any tax liability.
Up to April 1998, the cost of investments for CGT purposes was adjusted to allow for inflation between the month of acquisition and the month of disposal of the investments.
For investments held at 6 April 1998 and disposed of after that date, this indexation allowance will be computed for the period from the date of acquisition to April 1998, with taper relief applying after April 1998.
For assets acquired on or after 6 April 1998, only taper relief applies.
The taper reduces the amount of chargeable gain according to the number of complete years after 5 April 1998 for which the investment has been held.
For UK investors who acquired Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust stock prior to 31 March 1982, the costs for CGT purposes, based on the price at that date, adjusted for capital changes, are as follows: Report and Accounts 2006 6
