qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 75 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts for the year.
Although the estimates are based on managements 1.
Accounting policies best knowledge and judgement of information and financial data as at the date the financial statements are approved, the actual outcome 1.1 Basis of preparation may differ from these estimates.
Further information on the use of The consolidated financial statements of the Group are prepared in estimates, assumptions and judgements is set out in note 2. accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union and those parts of the 1.3 Summary of significant accounting policies Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The principal accounting policies set out below have been The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the consistently applied to all years presented in these consolidated historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of property financial statements.
and equipment, investment properties and financial instruments at fair value through the income statement.
1 Business combinations also comply with the revised Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005 as The cost of a business combination is measured as the fair value of amended in December 2006 in so far as these requirements do not the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or contradict IFRS requirements.
The detailed disclosure of new assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to business does not form part of these accounts.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are The Group has applied the principles contained in FRS 27 Life measured initially at their fair values at the business combination Assurance, as applied for the first time in the Groups 2005 financial date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess statements, as an improvement to its accounting policies as of the cost of the business combination over the fair value of the permitted by IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
This requires liabilities to Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as with-profits policyholders to be measured on a realistic basis in goodwill.
If the cost of the business combination is less than the fair accordance with the FSAs Realistic Balance Sheet RBS regulations.
value of the net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
The Group presents its balance sheet in order of liquidity.
Where applicable, for each asset and liability line item that combines a Subsidiaries amounts expected to be recovered or settled both within and Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power, beyond 12 months after the balance sheet date, disclosure of the directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies so amount due beyond 12 months is either made in the maturity tables as to obtain economic benefits, generally accompanying a in note 30 or in the respective line item note.
shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are also Financial assets and financial liabilities are not offset, unless there is taken into account.
a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets Open-ended investment companies and unit trusts in which the and settle the liability simultaneously.
Income and expenses are not Group has a percentage holding in excess of 50% are consolidated.
offset in the income statement unless required or permitted by an The units not owned by the Group are treated as a liability called net accounting standard or interpretation, as specifically disclosed in the asset value attributable to unit holders.
accounting policies of the Group.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, The parent company has continued to present individual financial liabilities, results and cash flows of the company and its subsidiaries.
statements prepared on a UK GAAP basis as permitted by section The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the period are 226A of, and Schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985, adopting the included in the consolidated results from the date of acquisition or exemption of omitting the profit and loss account and related notes up to the date of disposal.
Intra-group balances and income and conferred by section 230 of that Act.
The parent company financial expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in statements, with its respective accounting policies, are presented on preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Profits or losses arising from changes in holdings in subsidiaries that The Group has decided not to early adopt IFRS 7 Financial do not impact the Groups control over that subsidiary are Instruments: Disclosures, or the Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of recognised directly in equity.
Financial Statements, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB in October 2005, and effective from 1 January b Associates and joint ventures 2007.
These standards will result in changes to disclosures relating to Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant financial instruments and capital when they are adopted in 2007. influence but not control over the financial and operating policies, generally arising from holding between 20% and 50% of the voting 1.2 Use of estimates, assumptions and judgements rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any estimates, assumptions and judgements that affect the reported impairment loss identified on acquisition.
amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the balance sheet date, as well as affecting the reported income and expenses Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 75
